BeGistered as a Newspaper.
&]\f® JOUS}]^^
f&ljt #Itai; gpte^i foitlj Spintwali^m xn (&xmi
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places‘.—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 332. (Vol. XIV.—No. 1.) LONDON I FRIDAY, JANUARY 3, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
dTontents.
Suggested Abolition of the Word “ Medium’’  ... ... 1
The Bible and Modem Spiritualism. By 0. J. Sneath ... 1
Spiritualism in Spain     ... ... ... 4
Spiritualism in South Africa:—Dematerialisation Phe¬
nomena... ...     ... '    5
On the Trail of a Prophet:—Elijah “ Interviewed ” by Our
Special Reporter  5
Desolation. (Poetry.)  ' ... 7
Poetry:—Ministering Angels, By a Little Girl   8
Correspondence:—The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism—
Sunday Spiritualistic Services     8
Paragraphs:—The Darwinian Theory, 4 ; The Lunacy
Laws, 7; Sunday Services ...    7
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communicar
ions m its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” fwho
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present fime,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associar
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess or
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Suilivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal: Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg),1
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, fi.A. (Cxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the Life of Swedenborg ”j ; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,1 M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
hi the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOffice, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
NOW READY.
jmWIXT WILL AND FATE; AND THE
i SLINKENSMIRK FAMILY: Two Stories in 1 vol.
By Caroline Corner, l vol., crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.
Remington and Co., 5, Arundel-street, Strand, W.C.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS
At the Offices of the Association.—On and after the 30th
December, 1878, the offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be
open between the hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all
week-days, except Saturday, when they will be open between
the hours of 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETING.
The usual Fortnightly Meeting will be omitted on Jan. 6th.
On Monday, Jan. 20th, a paper will, be read by Mr. W. H.
Harrison, entitled “ Hauntings.”
On Tuesday, Jan. 4th, the ordinary Council Meeting will be
held at 6.30 p.m., preceded by the sitting of the Finance Com¬
mittee at 6 p.m.
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE
Holds its sittings every Friday, at 6.30 p.m., unless adjourned
by order of the chairman, or by vote of the committee at its
previous meeting. E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. SEC.
British museum lectures.—a
Course of Three Lectures (with the permission of the
authorities) will be given by C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, Westminster
Hospital, on Jan. 7, Jan. 11, and Jan. 14. Hours 11 to 1. Tickets
5s. each. Address C. Carter Blake, care of 38, Great Russell-
street, W.C.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following engagementsPerry Barr Institute,
December 3,1878; New Swindon Mechanics’ Institute, January
8,1879. Coalbrookdale Literary Institute, January 21 (Second
time this season). Hastings, Gensing Hall, Afternoon and
Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial Society, February
4. Leamington Institute, February 25. Croydon Literary
Institution, March 6 (2nd time). Favourable terms arranged
with Institutes en route. For particulars address Mr. Frank
Dietz, 54, Denbigh Street, London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland
Street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
January 15th, 1879, February 12th, March 12th, April 9th, May
14th, June 11th. Tickets for the Series One Guinea each.
The Religion of Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7,46.
BIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the'Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Aye Maria-lane, E.C.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W,
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trtjbner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Nov. 4.—Mr. Bonwick, F.R.G.S., “ Soul Ideas amongst the
Ancient Egyptians.”
Nov. 18.—Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 1.”
Dec. 2.—Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., “ Spiritualism in
Eastern Lands.”
Dec. 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A.., “ The intelligent Operator
at the other end of the Line.”
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings."
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislinarbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld. “ Christian Occultism.”
March 13«*-Mrs. Ellis, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Dr. Bloede, “ Psychometry.”
April 21.—Mr. C. C. Massey, “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.. “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days arejpurposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subiects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “Review of the Session.”
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—3, Liidgate Circus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”'
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &o., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCKSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
’ Stove and Range Maker,
1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., i, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
■Vice-Presidents. ■
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-GeraW, Mrs., 19, Cambrif]ore-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond O-, M.s.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall,2l, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Har.court-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D.,12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett. Edward T„ The Mansion, Richmond Hill. I
Blnney, F A.. 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bouwick, ,T., F.R.G.S.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen's-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 6, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59. Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Enn, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. fi. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos,. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton. Miss, 20. Deiamere-crescent, Westhonrne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Istiam, Sir Charles. Barf . Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Beruers-street, W.
Mfjltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-0treet, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Atorse, .T J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newhonld. Rev. W. W., 118, Albanv-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton. W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15. Harper-street, Bloomsburv, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3. Blandford-square, N.W.
Reirrers, Christian, 47, Mornington-road, Regent’s-park.
Strawhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
Stock, St. George". AT.A., 8, Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, More.ll. 62. Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M.. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.vY.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road,Leamington.
Walhouse, M.J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh. 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leed*s.
Wilson, D. H., AT. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. Jbhn’s-road, Brixton, SW.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St.. John’s-road, Brixton, SW.
IJonoi'ary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, SW.
Auditors.
tl. 17. Gray, Esq. ,G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Bonorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha aBahdJdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, be! Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
W. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne. Esq , Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street. Carlton, Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. DUson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq,, Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq.. 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A. i j
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. IT, Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Ttev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 3, 1879.
Luther Colby, Esq.,9-,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test,Esq., M.D.,Union Springs. Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de BulletVHotel de FAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austna.
A. R. Wallace, Esq, F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq, 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq, 9, Motitgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgra»ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq, 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doton, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq, 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq, 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasso, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republics Mexicans. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offlees, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
> > Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o'clock for reception of friends.
Address a;s above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
TH W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
JLLi* engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street. London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Oommereial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private stances attended. Application
by letter in the first instanoe.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
mHE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
X ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Past L
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—It The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Keconciliation.—XU. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Itesurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth:
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earfs-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Olairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
JA. ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, viS, Bogino, No. 23.
13 EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JL\) logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socitti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PS'XCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science,
price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston,
Mass. Oolby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Oolby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Pricels.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch. Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie, Paris.
% ul jp yjjugqss of ;mij ^i|tq9 of jlfajifualisn
No. 332.—Volujue Fourteen; Dumber One.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 3rd, 1879.
SUGGESTED ABOLITION OF THE WORD “ MEDIUM.” j:
Is it not desirable to abolish the word <£ medium,” and to [|
substitute the word <£psychic?” The plural of medium, ;|
namely £< media,” has a pedantic sound, and the substitution
of the word “mediums” gives would-be clever critics the IK
opportunity of asserting in print that Spiritualists do not i]
understand the English language. The public, in speaking j
of “the happy medium,” mean one thing, and Spiritualists, I
when using the same phrase, mean another. The word i<
“psychic,” first chosen for the purpose by Mr. Serjeant Cox jj
and Mr. Crookes, admirably answers its intended purpose; I j
it has a clear and definite meaning of its own. Our sugges- i i
tion is, that the best public workers in Spiritualism should | \
for a time use the words “ psychic ” and “ medium ” indis- :j
criminately, and that when the word “psychic” has thus
been brought more into common use, the word “medium” '
shall be dropped altogether in its application to spiritual j
sensitives.
THE BIBLE AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
BY C. J. SHEATH. j
( Continued from page 306, Vol. XIII.)
These are examples which Mr. St. Clair forgot to notice; j
they, however, serve to show how the phenomena of the Bible
and modern Spiritualism go hand-in-hand, and must stand or |
fall together. Hence the advice given to us in one of these j
lectures to let Spiritualism stand on its own merits. Another i
physical impossibility connected with modern Spiritualism i
was the movement of ponderable objects without human j
contact. “Spiritualists,” said he in effect, “tell us that j
chairs, tables, and musical instruments are lifted up and |
floated about without visible agency. But how easy it is to |
be mistaken in such matters. Twelve persons sit round a j
table in the dark ; the imagination is active, the brain in a j
state of anxious expectancy, the mind unable to calculate dis- j
tances. Is it impossible to be deceived under such circum- j
stances ? We have seen Professor Pepper’s ghost illusion; we j
know the wonderful things which take place at the Egyptian
Hall. I have myself seen a man floated over my head,
apparently without any support ; of course there were wires, !
but I could not see them. Ladies and gentlemen, is this |
intended for an argument ? We have seen Professor j
Pepper’s ghost illusion; we do know the wonderful things that j
take place at the Egyptian Hall; but we know also that these |
illusions cannot be spontaneously produced in private houses
for want of the necessary machinery.” Yet in hundreds of |
private houses phenomena have occurred under test conditions
which even conjurers themselves declare to be impossible.
But can it be that with all Mr. St. Clair’s reading on the i
subject, and with all his knowledge of modern Spiritualism,
he has never heard or read of a single instance in which
phenomena of the kind have taken place in the light ? If not,
I will mention one or two examples, with a promise to produce j
a multitude more if necessary. Mr. Alfred Bussel Wallace,
in his work entitled Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, page
135, says : “On another occasion a very large leather arm- j
chair, which stood at least four or five feet from the medium,
suddenly wheeled up to her, after a few slight preliminary j
movements. It is of course easy to say that what I relate is j
impossible; I maintain that it is accurately true, and that j
no man, whatever be his attainments, has such an exhaustive
knowledge of the powers of nature as to justify him in using I
the word impossible with regard to facts which I and many j
others have repeatedly witnessed.” Mr. Crookes (Researches
in the Phenomena of Spiritualism, page 89) says: “On j
another occasion, a heavy table rose from the floor in full j
light, while I was holding the medium’s hands and feet.” “ On
another occasion the table rose from the floor, not only when
no person was touching it, but under conditions which I had
prearranged so as to assure unquestionable proof of the fact.”
Mr. Jencken, barrister-at-law, in a paper read before a com¬
mittee of the Dialectical Society (Report on Spiritualism,
page 117), says: “I have also seen a table lifted clear over
head, six feet from the ground ; but what may appear more
remarkable, I have witnessed an accordion suspended
in space for ten or twenty minutes, and played by an invi¬
sible agency.” Mr. St. Clair either knew these and similar
facts, or he did not. If he did not, was he a fit person to
deliver three lectures on modern Spiritualism ? and if he did
know them, why did he suppress the truth ? Why so arrange
his discourse as to leave persons unacquainted with the subject
under the impression taht phenomena of the kind now under
consideration took place only in the dark. It is hardly fair,
I think, to attack even modern Spiritualism with such
weapons as these.
We now come to flower manifestations. “We are told,”
says the lecturer, ‘ ‘ that flowers and fruit are brought by
spirits into closed rooms. Mr. Alfred R. Wallace tells us
that this actually took place in his presence.” This is quite
true. The account may be found on page 164 of the work
already referred to. It is, however, unnecessary to quote it,
as I shall have occasion to mention presently a more remark¬
able circumstance which came under my own observation.
“But how do they come?” inquires Mr. St. Clair.
“ Spiritualists say that they are first dematerialised, but that
would be to destroy and recreate. Why not create at once ? ”
It occurs to me that the spirits may be better chemists than
the inhabitants of earth. Besides, there are many mundane
things all around us equally incomprehensible. We do not
understand how it is that ordinary flowers blossom every
year, and the aloe, perhaps, only once in a century. We do
not know how it is—I beg pardon—we did not know until
very recently why ordinary cats have tails, while Manx cats
are obliged to do without them. But as these were bond hde
facts, we did not care to trouble ourselves as to the why or
the wherefore. “But why not ask for tropical flowers?”
Why not, indeed ? A splendid test no doubt. If a table
moves one foot from the floor, ask that it may move a yard.
Little rest would our spirit friends enjoy if they attempted to
comply with the wishes of every so-called investigator.
Now a spirit is asked to turn detective and catch a thief, now
he is required to play at hide-and-seek with a so-called
inquirer, and discover a watch which he has hidden for the
purpose. A short time ago a writer in one of our daily
papers—I think the Daily Telegraph—wanted to know if
Spiritualism were true, why the spirits did not do some¬
thing useful ? Why did they not come and give him the tip
for the Derby ? And now we have Mr. St. Clair wishing the
spirits to bring us flowers from the tropics, or to instruct us
in electricity, or teach us to fly. A few words, now, in refer¬
ence to the flower stance at Mr. St. Clair’s house; that is
(for I was not present myself), so far as it has been
reported by those who were. Mr. St. Clair informs us in Hie
Spiritualist that he did not know that there was any neces¬
sity to have any suspicion as to the conduct of non-
Spiritualists at stances. But this is only another proof
how little he really knows offthe subject. Has he forgotten the
case of the late Lord Amberley and the present Dr. Lankester ?
Has he forgotten the mock stance got up by secularists in
Digbeth a few years ago ? Truly, where ignorance is bliss
’tis folly to be wise. Mr. Lawson Tait (who did not sit in
the circle) informs us that at this partially dark stance he
saw the medium’s arm twice attempt to reach the bell from
the mantelpiece; that he was, in fact, obliged to draw back
himself to avoid coming in contact with the arm ; and that
when the flowers came he saw the medium’s arm raised as in
the act of throwing them. And why, I ask, in the name of
1 all that is just, did he not at once seize the uplifted arm and
2
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 3, 1879,
call aloud for a light ? It has been said that he was at a j ,
friend’s house, and did not wish to disturb the harmony of j j
the meeting. But is honesty of less consequence than bar- .j j j
mony ? Is truth of less importance than a supper ? It would I |
seem so, for it was not until the medium had left the house ; j j
that Mr. Lawson Tait made known the important fact that he j i |
had detected the tricking. Was this the conduct of a man of j!
science or of a gentleman ? One of the sitters, whose' name | J |
I do not mention, because I believe he has an objection to its I j
appearing in public, said that he saw a light at this stance, i
which I presume he imagined to be a spirit-light. His next f j
neighbour, Mrs. Franklin, who has been a Spiritualist so long | j
as to be thoroughly steeped in superstition in the opinion of j i i
some people, nevertheless could not see that light. The other j ] |
sitter persisted that he saw it, and so the matter dropped, j1 j
But at supper-time another gentleman addressed to him the M
remark, “Oh, you saw a light, did you? I made that with j J J
the lucifer matches.” Whether he did so produce the light | (|
I do not know, but I do know that if he produced the light as m
he stated that he cheated at the stance, and that if he did j (j
not produce it he told an untruth after it was over. Perhaps | (j
some of you may feel tempted to add that thereby hangs a tale. J1 j
However, we were determined to establish the honesty of the j11
medium—Mr. Summerfield—beyond the shadow of a doubt, by j (j
holding at his request a test stance in the light. Accordingly j
on the evening of the 12th August we met between seven and I
eight o’clock in the evening at 312, Bridge-street. There were j
ten persons present besides the medium—seven gentlemen and J
three ladies. It was sufficiently light to enable us to see with
ease the time by our watches. There were two windows
in the room, and towards the end farthest from the door, I
suspended from the ceiling by about two feet of rope, j
was what the medium calls “a cabinet,” but which |
was simply an inverted sack with an iron hoop at the j j
top and bottom. We could walk all round it. As I was j I
about to deliver a lecture on Spiritualism, the medium j
requested that I would search him and the room. I said that j (j
I would do so if I could have the assistance of another gentle- i
man. Mr. Pembroke was accordingly chosen, and we com- j j
menced our work. We examined the floor under the cabinet, j
and were quite sure that there was no trap-door there. We i j
then examined the sack, passing it through our hands j j j
so as to have spoilt any flowers that it might have con- j
cealed; but we found nothing. The medium then took j
off his coat and vest, which we also examined. We then took j!
him down stairs, and passed our hands heavily, I may say | j
painfully, down every part of his body from head to foot, and [
so satisfied ourselves that he had no flowers concealed about j |
his person. He then requested one of us to walk before him j j
and another behind him up stairs, and to let no one come j |
near him. We guarded him to the sack, and after placing a (j
little stool for him to sit down upon, drew it over his head i |
and fast nailed it to the ground, leaving no outlet whatever, j j
Mr. Pembroke then took his seat about three feet from the i j
cabinet on one side, and I at the same distance from it on the j j i
other. One or two hymns were then sung, and in about nine J
minutes we were told by the medium that the flowers had been j i |
brought into the cabinet, and that if we would remove the J
nails we should find them lying at his feet. We then removed
the nails and discovered about twelve flowers of different j
kinds, fresh, perfect, and wet. We took them and placed J
them upon the table, not one of the other sitters moving from 1
his place until the medium was released from his temporary |
prison. How the flowers came into the sack we do not know, j J i
but both Mr. Pembroke and myself say most solemnly that we 1
are sure, so far as human beings can be sure of anything, !
that there were no flowers concealed either in the so-called | j j
cabinet or upon the medium’s person. Two questions may j j
suggest themselves in connection with this matter. Why did ; j
you not hold a test stance at Mr. St. Clair’s house ? When j I
on his way there, the medium said to his wife, “ I hope they i j
will have a test seance; I shall ask them to search me before j i
it begins.” “If I were you,” replied the wife, “I should j
do nothing of the kind. We are invited as friends, and Mr. ||
St. Clair is a minister, and might not like it.” But why did > j
you not ask some scientific gentleman to be present at your ! j
seance ? I reply that we thought ourselves quite capable
of searching a room and the medium in the daylight; that we I
had seen how one Birmingham man of science investigated j
the subject, and did not care to repeat the experiment. And
I in reference to that gentleman’s message to The Spiritualist,
j in which he informs us that he has neither time nor inclina-
| tion to investigate such transparent nonsense any further,
I will merely remark that although I have learnt from the
! newspapers that his time must have been much occupied of
! late, yet that when he calls what he does not understand
“transparent nonsense,” he only exposes himself to the just
criticism of Groethe, which could not, I think, have been more
appropriate even if it had been written for the occasion :—
Most learned Don, I know you by these tokens :
What you can feel not, that can no one feel;
What comprehend not, no one comprehend;
What you can’t reckon is of no account;
What you can’t weigh, can no existence have ;
What you’ve not coined, that must be counterfeit.
But indeed we had a well-known London scientist present at
our seance, who called quite by accident on his way to the
British Association at Dublin, and his report may be seen in
The Spiritualist for August 16th.
I now return to Mr. St. Clair’s lecture, and proceed to
notice another specimen of his interpretation of Scripture.
I pass over the materialised hand in the palace of Babylon,
because we were informed by the lecturer that all learned
critics are now agreed that the book of Daniel is not a history
at all, but a mere fiction like the Pilgrim's Progress, though
of course it can do people no harm to hold the old-fashioned
view if they like. This permission I trust will be gratefully
acknowledged by the professors of Hebrew in our Universities,
and by other unlearned persons. But it is to Mr. St. Clair’s
text, containing, as I before remarked, the account of our
Lord’s first appearance to His assembled disciples after His
crucifixion, that I wish to call your attention. This appear¬
ance, we were told, Spiritualists regard as a materialisation,
though it is evident from the Evangelist’s report that Christ
appeared in His natural body, for He said to His disciples,
“ Handle Me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as
ye see Me have.” And we further read that “ They gave
Him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb, and He
took it and did eat before them.” If the lecturer had studied
his subject a little more, he would have known that neither
Spiritualists nor spirits are agreed as to the nature of this
appearance, and that it is a well-authenticated fact that
materialised spirit-forms have frequently eaten and drank, or
at any rate dematerialised solids and liquids. Some persons,
the lecturer admitted, nught see a difficulty, since St. John,
in his account of this appearance, says that “ On the first day
of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples
were assembled came Jesus and stood in the midst”
(St. John xx. 19). But this passage presented no difficulty
to him ; he believed it simply referred to the time of our
Lord’s coming, but that He entered the room in the ordinary
way. But perhaps the difficulty is not so easily got over, for
in the twenty-sixth verse the Evangelist says, “And after eight
days again His disciples were within ; then came Jesus, the
doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace
be unto you.” I can hardly imagine that the Evangelist
could have unintelligently written, “Then came Jesus the doors
being shut,” if he really meant, “Then came Jesus, the
doors being open,” since he mentions the time of day in the
nineteenth verse independently. But it so happens that two of
the disciples had during the earlier ’part of the day been to a
village called Emmaus. Jesus overtook them on the way,
but they did not know Him, He entered a house, sat down to
a meal, and we read, “ He took bread, and blessed it, and brake
it, and gave to them. And their eyes were opened, and they
knew Him, and He vanished out of their sight ” (Luke xxiv.
13—34). That is, according to different translators, He
vanished, disappeared, became invisible, ceased to be seen.
If, then, our Lord appeared in His natural body, and if
matter cannot go through matter, here is a difficulty which I
must leave to be explained by a minister “who is expected
by his congregation to distinctly enunciate nothing which he
cannot prove and recommend by sound argument and just
consideration, not talking nonsense very frequently.” But
to proceed. The disciples returned to Jerusalem, and as they
talked over with their brethren the wonderful things that
they had seen, we read that Jesus Himself stood in the midst.
But they were terrified, and supposed that they had seen a
spirit, by which we are expected to understand that as the
disciples were talking together, there came a knock at the
Jan. 3, 3879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
street door; that one of their number (we are not told which)
went down and opened it, found Jesus standing there, and
after a few words of salutation invited Him up stairs, placed
a seat for Him in the midst, and that then all of a sudden,
for what reason we cannot imagine, they were all terrified,
and supposed that they had seen a spirit. This interpretation
seems a little forced ; but really upon the principle that our
Lord appeared in His natural body, and that matter cannot
go through matter, I am unable to give any other. But
suppose the lecturer admits that in this instance he made a
mistake, and that this was a spiritual appearance, I fear that
this change of position will not prove more beneficial, since
he has already told us that a spirit cannot be seen because it
is not material. Therefore he has placed himself on the
horns of a dilemma. If he asserts that our Lord appeared in
His natural body, I reply, * * That is impossible ; for you have
already told us that matter cannot go through matter.”
If, on the other hand, he asserts that this was a spiritual
appearance, I reply, “According to your theory that is equally
impossible, since a spirit is not material, therefore cannot be
seen at all.”
A short time ago Mr. St. Clair preached and published a
sermon in commemoration of the thirty-first anniversary of
the opening of the Church of the Saviour; he entitled it
Intellectual Inconsistency, and the Government came in for
a considerable share of clerical irony. When I compared
this anniversary sermon with the lectures on modern Spirit¬
ualism, I was forced to the conclusion that there were other
inconsistencies in the world than those of the English
Government; he would have acted wisely had he remem¬
bered the old proverb that those who live in glass houses
should never throw stones. We were told towards the end
of the sermon—“ Of one thing we may be sure, and that is
that nothing is said on the platform here, which cannot be
defended in public debate.” But even this assurance is a
poor guarantee for soundness either in logic or orthodoxy, if
the public debate is to take place in the Church of the
Saviour schoolroom, and if its pastor is to write to an
opponent (as he actually did write to me), informing him
“ that he had read so much upon the subject, and had such
a degree of acquaintance with it in other ways, that he did
not think that anything I could say would be likely to move
him from his present position.” And it is remarkable that
while the anniversary sermon was preached on the 4th
August, the letter from which I have just quoted was dated
on the 5th.
We now come to the materialisation of spirit-forms. Mr.
Crookes tells us, says Mr. St. Clair, that he has walked arm-in¬
arm with a materialised spirit, embraced her, pressed her
lips, and even taken her photograph. But why did the
spirit go away again ? Why not stay with us a day, a month,
or even altogether, as a Spiritualistic missionary?” This
theory is not definite, and it is necessary to enlarge upon it.
Was Mr. Crookes a proper person to undertake the investiga¬
tion ? For although he is a Fellow and Medallist of the
Royal Society, although he has given to the world several
important discoveries which have been highly appreciated,
he has nevertheless been designated a specialist of specialists,
a second-rate scientist, and has had other equally compli¬
mentary remarks applied to him. As, however, these
epithets were applied to him after his psychic investigations
were published, it may be interesting to inquire what was
said of him before. One periodical remarked that the
“ statements of Mr. Crookes deserved respectful considera¬
tion ;” another expressed “ profound satisfaction that the
subject was about to be investigated by a man so thoroughly
qualified as Mr. Crookes a third was “ gratified to learn
that the matter is now receiving the attention of cool and
clear-headed men of recognised position in sciencea
fourth asserted that no one could “ doubt Mr. Crookes’
ability to conduct the investigation with rigid philosophically
impartiality;” while a fifth was good enough to tell its
readers that “ if men like Mr. Crookes grapple with the sub¬
ject, taking nothing for granted until it is proved, we shall
soon know how much to believe.” Yes, and if Mr. Crookes
had discovered the trick, or if he had even pretended to have
done so, he would doubtless have been looked upon to-day
as one of the greatest men of science of the age. But
because he has been brave enough to act upon the old pro-
Ij verb, “ buy the truth and sell it not,” he has been assailed
{ by the paltry contempt and petty ridicule of men who for
scientific attainments are not fit to black his boots. And
i now for Mr. Crookes’s discoveries, so far as materialisation
is concerned. He assures us that “ On one occasion the
1 materialised form, calling herself Katie King, after walking
| about amongst the sitters for some time, retreated behind
I the curtain which separated my laboratory, where the com-
j pany was sitting, from my library, which did temporary duty
as a cabinet. In a minute she came to the curtain and called
me to her, saying, ‘ Come into the room and lift my medium’s
head up; she has slipped down.’ Katie was then standing
before me, clothed in her usual white robes and turban head-
| dress. I immediately walked into the library up to
1 Miss Cook, Katie stepping aside to allow me to pass.
I found Miss Cook had slipped partially off the sofa, and
her head was hanging in a very awkward position. I lifted
her on to the sofa, and in so doing had satisfactory evidence,
in spite of the darkness, that Miss Cook was not attired in
the ‘ Katie ’ costume, but had on her ordinary black velvet
dress, and was in a deep trance. Not more than three
j seconds elapsed between my seeing the white-robed Katie
standing before me, and my raising Miss Cook on to the sofa
from the position into which she had fallen.” (Page 105.)
He says that on another occasion at Hackney, the spirit
walked about in a lighted room for nearly two hours,
familiarly conversing with those present; that she walked
about the room arm-in-arm with him, as an ordinary lady
might have done, and at his request permitted him to
embrace her, and even to press her lips so as to satisfy him¬
self that she was a real tangible being. He tells us that tor
six months the medium, Miss Cook, was a frequent visitor
at his house, staying sometimes for a week at a time; that
she brought no luggage with her except a little hand-bag,
which was unlocked; that she spent the day with his wife or
other members of the family, and entered the stance-room at
night without a moment’s preparation. He further adds
that it was simply impossible for Miss Cook to have imper¬
sonated the spirit-form, even if she had desired to do so.
Miss Cook usually wore a black dress, while the spirit-form
was draped in white. Miss Cook wore earrings, while the
ears of the spirit-form were unpierced. Miss Cook’s com¬
plexion was dark, while that of the spirit-form was fair.
Miss Cook’s hair was a dark brown, almost black, while the
hair of the spirit-form was a rich golden auburn.
But it is simply absurd to suppose that a school-girl of
fif teen years of age could have succeeded for three years in
deceiving an experienced man of science, while willingly sub¬
mitting to every test he could devise. Moreover, Mr.
Crookes, who knew her well, indignantly repudiates such a
suspicion. During the week preceding her departure, Katie,
we are told, gave stances almost nightly at Mr. Crookes’s
house to enable him to take her photograph. He informs us
that five cameras were brought to bear upon her in the full
glare of the electric light each time she stood for her photo¬
graph, and that he has no fewer than forty-four negatives of
her now in his possession. The remainder of the story shall
be told in Mr. Crookes’s own words, and remember they are
not the words of a sentimental young lady fresh from a
boarding-school, but the deliberate utterances of a scientist,
whose “ statements deserve respectful consideration ”—of
one who, having investigated the subject “ taking nothing
for granted until it was proved, has taught us how much we
are to believe —
“ When the time came for Katie to take her farewell, I
asked that she would let me see the last of her. Accordingly
when she had called each of the company up to her, and had
spoken to them a few words in private, she gave some
general directions for the future guidance and protection of
Miss Cook. From these, which were taken down in short¬
hand, I quote the following:—‘ Mr. Crookes has done very
well throughout, and I leave Florrie with the greatest confi¬
dence in his hands, feeling perfectly sure he will not abuse
the trust I place in him. He can act in any emergency
better than I can myself j for he has more strength.’ Having
concluded her directions, Katie invited me into the cabinet
with her, and allowed me to remain there to the end.
“ After closing the curtain she conversed with me for some
time, and then walked across the room to where Miss. Ucek
THE SPIRITUALIST.
4
Jan. 2, 1879.
was lying senseless on the floor. Stooping over her, Katie j
touched her, and said, ‘ Wake up, Florrie, wake up ! I must |
leave you now.’ Miss Cook then woke, and tearfully en- j
treated Katie to stay a little time longer. ( My dear, I
can’t; my work is done. God bless you,’ Katie replied, and j
then continued speaking to Miss Cook. For several minutes
the two were conversing with each other, till at last Miss |
Cook’s tears prevented her speaking. Following Katie’s in- I
structions, I then came forward to support Miss Cook, who |
was falling on to the floor, sobbing hysterically. I looked |
round, but the white-robed Katie had gone. As soon as Miss j
Cook was sufficiently calmed, a light was procured, and I
led her out of the cabinet.”
And now for Mr. St. Clair’s comment. “ But why did |
the spirit go away again ? Why not stay with us a day, a
month, or even altogether as a Spiritualistic missionary?
My first thoughts were ‘tell it to the marines.’” And my
thoughts, if not my first thoughts, on hearing this remark,
were those of an old philosopher:—44 There came in a wise
man and a fool. The wise man heard, investigated, decided.
The fool decided.” There was a time, I think, when the in¬
vestigations of such men as Crookes, Wallace, Rutter,
Edmonds, and a host of others would have received a far
difl'erent kind of treatment from the platform of the Church
of the Saviour. But, alas I in spite of the declaration of his
present pastor to the contrary, we are compelled to hold that
all people are not progressive. “ Tell it to the marines”—
this was, in fact, the sum and substance of the lectures now
under consideration. Whatever in the Bible or out of it, in
the past or in the present, could not be measured, or
weighed by mundane instruments, must be laid aside as un¬
worthy the serious consideration of the great thinkers of the
present age. There is a great God above us, it would
seem to-day, before whose throne all peoples, nations, and
languages are commanded to fall down and worship. His
name lor all practical purposes is not God Almighty, but a
stern, inevitable necessity. “ Tell it to the marines”—a
grand old argument, and one from which there is no appeal;
one moreover possessing this additional advantage, that it can J
be used with equal success either by the Christian minister j
against modern Spiritualism, or by the modern infidel
against Christianity.. What may be the lecturer’s scientific j
attainments, I do not know. There is, however, one thing |
I think which, as a minister of religion, he has yet to learn,
namely, that people have hearts as well as heads ; that man
is a spiritual being, and has consequent longings and j
aspirations which no amount of walking through the gal¬
leries of the British Museum, no amount of searching and
sifting among the fossils and skeletons of the past (a most j
useful employment in its way) can ever satisfy. Still, the j
congregation of the Church of the Saviour was not left I
without a word of comfort. u Do not grieve though Spiritu- j
alism be not true; God is good, and man is immortal, even |
though he cannot come back to earth when he has once
shuffled off this mortal coil. The new-born child cannot
return to the confinement and restraint from which it has
emerged, neither can man return to the confinement of earth
after he has taken his departure.” But permit me to add
that the illustration is not particularly delicate, and not at
all appropriate. The new-born child cannot return to the
confinement and restraint from which it has emerged, simply
because it is a physical impossibility; but he who asserts
that the so-called dead are unable to communicate !
with those they love, is confronted by the universal j
belief of mankind, and by the ten thousand facts of |
modern Spiritualism. Moreover, the new-born child has I
no desire to return. But is this the case with the man who f
has entered upon spirit life ? Has death robbed him of his |
identity ? Is his memory of the past obliterated ? He has j
left behind him, it may be, the wife of his bosom, the child i
of his love, the friend of his soul. Is he so far removed that i
he cannot communicate with them, or has he become so in¬
different to their welfare that he cares not to do so ? Poor |
comfort this for the dying hour, poor consolation this for the j
broken-hearted mourner. “ Man is immortal.” Yes, if you |
can take Mr. St. Clair’s bare word for it, not otherwise; for I
he has not the shadow of proof to ofi'er, and he knows it. i
He can advance inferential arguments in its favour, and so !
can I; but what are they worth to the sceptic ? It is not '
| many years ago since an American bishop stood by the bed-
| side of a dying clergyman who had devoted his days to
i works of usefulness amongst his people, yet not without a
| j doubt as to a future life ; and as the Bishop spoke to him of
I the evidences of Christianity, a sad shade passed over the
| old man’s face as he exclaimed, “ Ah, bishop 1 the proof,
| the proof! If we only had it.” And we read the same sad
I state of doubt in those lines of Shelley—
“ Who telleth a tale of unspeaking death ?
Who lifteth the veil of what is to come ?
Who painteth the shadows that are beneath 1
The wide-winding caves of the peopled tomb ?”
That materialism is rapidly gaining ground among us, no
! one at all acquainted with the matter will* attempt to deny,
| and we might as well try to knock down the great wall of
| China with a knitting-pin as attempt to stop its progress
by mere assertions about immortality. But what base
j assertions cannot do, that, thank God, modern Spiritualism
I has done and is doing day by day. The late Dr. Elliotson,
j as editor of TAe Zozst, for many years bitterly opposed
| modern Spiritualism, being himself a thorough materialist;
| but at length he saw and believed, and said to Mr. Coleman,
| u You may tell the world that I deeply regret my folly in so
| long resisting the truth; when I leave this earth I shall die
I a Christian, and you may say that I owe my conversion to
Spiritualism.” The late Mrs. Trollope was also converted
from materialistic views, and wrote that Spiritualism u had
given a pillow to her old age, which she little dreamt ofi”
But Spiritualism is unpopular at present. The newspapers
refuse our facts even though we offer to pay for them as
advertisements; the libraries refuse our books even though
we offer to present them; public opinion is divided respect¬
ing us, some people regarding us as knaves, while others
charitably conclude that we are mad. Hence it required no
very great amount of moral courage on the part of a minister
of religion to stand on his own platform, and coolly
dismiss the careful investigations of one of the greatest
scientists of the age with, “ Tell it to the marines.” We
were not surprised, for we remembered how the great
Stephenson was laughed at as a madman by a committee of
the House of Commons, because he ventured to express his
conviction that he could convey people from place to place
by steam at the rate of twelve miles an hour. And how it
was said of one far greater than Stephenson, “ He hath a
devil, and is mad, why hear ye Him ?” ’Tis ever thus :—
To-day abhorred, to-morrow adored,
Thus round and round we run,
But ever the right comes uppermost,
And ever is justice done.
“ Even in the most cloudless skies of scepticism I see a
j rain-cloud, if it be no bigger than a man’s hand. It is
| modern Spiritualism.” So wrote Lord Brougham, but a
| very short time before his departure. “ But why did the
| spirit go away again? Why not stay with us a day, a
| month, or even altogether as a Spiritualistic missionary ?
I My first thoughts were—4 Tell it to the marines.’ ” So
I spoke Mr. St. Clair from the Church of the Saviour plat¬
form on the 14th July, 1878.
I speak as unto wise men, judge ye what I say.”
SriEITUALISM IN SPAIN.
| For more than a year the private spiritual circle called “ Marietta,”
| founded by Viscount Torres Solanot, with the aid of other persons,
has held seances with a celebrated medium, whose faculties are equal to
those of any other medium of the day, especially as regards ma¬
terialisation. The series of seances has just been finished; the scientific
labour is now at an end, and ready to be submitted for consideration
[ to the best spiritual centres in Europe.
Some of the Spanish Spiritualists are not in favour of this labour,
j and the controversy has become almost personal among individuals
who are at the head of the Spanish Spiritualists. Viscount Torres
Solanot hopes to separate the wheat from the tares in the camp, and to
maintain the principles of Spiritualism against the attacks so constantly
I made on them. He hopes soon to visit London.
The Darwinian Theory.—Nay, we might sufficiently represent
the general manner of conclusion in the Darwinian system by the
statement that if you fasten a hair-brush to a mill-wheel, with the
handle forward, so as to develops itself into a neck by moving always
in the same direction, and within continuous hearing of a steam-whistle,
after a certain number of revolutions the hair-brush will fall in love
| with the whistle ; they will marry, lay an egg, and the produce will
; be a nightingale.—JRuskin.
Jan. 3, 1879,
'5
THE SPIRITUALIST.
SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH AFRICA.
dematerialisation phenomena.
Mr. T. Berks Hutchinson, of Cape Town, writes as follows:—
In my last I promised to give you a few facts in regard to materiali- j
sation, which I consider to be of very great value to the inquiring
student. One evening, at an improvised seance, which took place in
August last, we had my three solid brass curtain rings passed, by
some strange process, on to the arms of three different sitters ; first
one, then the second, and finally the third. Mr. Hugh Fisher, a
private medium, had his hand tightly grasped by Mr. Williams, and
under these conditions the ring passed on to Mr. Fisher’s arm quite
easily; not so in the case of Mr. Eglinton, who was holding Mr.
Fisher’s left hand, for he complained of a fearful lancinating pain just I
above his right wrist, the band of which was lightly clasped by Mr.
Fisher. After enduring this pain for say a minute or two, we heard
the brass rings shaken by being taken off the gaselier. At this stage
Mr. Eglinton remarked that he felt as if he had lost a portion of his
physical arm between the right hand and elbow. I then asked Mr.
Fisher to press his own hand and arm (still firmly grasping Mr.
Eglinton) in such a manner that he could feel whether Mr. Eglinton’s
arm was really dematerialised ; he said that there was nothing solid
from the wrist upwards, and that he could move Mr. Eglinton’s hand
about just as easily as a detached hand. The idea instantly came to
my mind that that particular portion of his physical arm had (by a
process well known by spiritual chemists) been literally dissolved,
leaving only the spiritual part of that portion of his arm as the con*
necting link with the detached hand. (See The Seat of the Soul, by
Gillingham, and 1st Cor. xv. chap., I think where St. Paul alludes to
the natural and spiritual body.) I asked the invisible surgeons
whether I was correct in thinking that before the ring was passed on
the arm they dissolved the fleshy portion, and then passed the brass
ring through the spiritual arm, just as you might pass your own hand
through air, smoke, or water. The operators confirmed my theory by
giving three emphatic raps, and corroborated that again by the direct
voice.
At this stage Mr. Eglinton exclaimed that the ring was on his arm,
which was again quite rigid, as in the normal state. We struck a light,
and found the three rings on the arms of Mr. Fisher, Mr. Williams,
and Mr. Eglinton. Mr. Fisher and Mr. Williams are my very intimate
friends, and both brother master masons.
Without insisting upon any theories, I maintain that this pheno¬
menon took place without a doubt, the darkness being as much neces¬
sary for the experiment as absence of white light is for developing a
negative photograph, or for trying experiments with mixed hydrogen
and chlorine gases.
One night, after a materialistion seftnce, I was directed to turn up the
light, and in doing so inadvertently turned it on too suddenly; the
result was a fearful shriek from Mr. Eglinton and Mr. Fisher, who both
fell prostrate, and remained in a state of coma for nearly two hours,
causing no little anxiety and loss of time to myself and friends.
Before I relate another most astounding fact connected with
materialisation, and the supposed passage of matter through matter, I
must ask those who have thought over this subject not to say it cannot
be possible.
Mr. Hugh Fisher was the medium on this occasion. At times the
spirits can do almost anything with his body—such as floating him
like a balloon in the air. One evening in September, when en stance,
he remarked that he felt his body below the chest quite dissolved,and on
their feeling, both their hands passed apparently through air. The next
instant he exclaimed that he was sinking into the floor of my room,
which was literally true, the person next to him feeling only his body
to the chest; a cool breeze was playing round the ground. He
became very greatly alarmed, but I said, “ Don’t fear, Fisher ; I
believe they have dematerialised your body, and let your spiritual
counterpart sink through the boards.” His voice was quite indis¬
tinct, as if coming from a vault or grave. The spirits corroborated my
theory.
Through this same medium I have had a spirit hand give me a solid
grip of the first and third masonic degree. Mr. Fisher’s familiar spirit, or
guide, when on this earth, laid the corner stone of the House of
Congress in Washington, U.S.A., with masonic rites. His familiar”
once having been a master, accounts for this wonderful fact of getting j
a master mason’s grip from a spirit hand, materialised from Mr. Fisher’s !
body.
Snow me a man who would go to heaven alone if he could, and I will
show you one who will never be admitted there.—Feltham,
Confucius says they who know the truth are not equal to those who j
love it; and those who love it are still below those who find delight in
the practice of it.
From the universal order of heaven and hell, it appears, that evil
punishes itself, and tends to its own abolition. Such is the Divine Law
in the permission of evil. It is also a universal law that love shall
reward itself. Thus it fares with every one just as he wills to others.— |
Swedenborg.
Miss Burke, the juvenile poetess of such unusual ability, is engaged
as assistant secretary to the National Association of Spiritualists for j
two or three weeks longer. Many friends are believed to strongly
desire that she should continue her present work in the spiritual !
movement ; this can only be done by raising the necessary funds by i
subscription. To start a list Mr. W. Tebb will contribute ^'3, Mr. j
Harrison iJl, and Mr. Reimers a sum not jet stated. Communi- |
cations on the subject had perhaps better be addressed till further j
notice to Miss Kislingbury. I
ON THE TRAIL OF A PROPHET.
ELIJAH “ INTERVIEWED ” BT OUR SPECIAL REPORTER.
Last Friday morning I was informed, in Folkestone, that
a man who believed himself to be the Prophet Elijah had
been perambulating the town for some days dressed in sheep¬
skins ; at times he blew a horn, drew an assemblage around
| him, exhorted the people to repent, and “ held forth ” to the
multitude. He was said to be a sensible man, except in
believing himself to be Elijah in consequence of revela¬
tions from the upper world, made by vision. He was well
received by certain respectable people in the town, and had,
| by invitation, delivered an address to a Sunday school;
j furthermore, his merits had been appreciated by ” the
enterprising proprietor of the skating rink,” who had
j engaged him to preach one part of the evening, and had
i arranged to roast a sheep whole the other, thus delicately
j blending food for the soul with food for the body. At two
o’clock on Friday, the Folkestone News came out, and in it
I saw that the man of modern psychological experiences
had been brought up for judgment before the local King
Agrippa. Here is the report:—
On Saturday, a man styling himself “ Elijah the Prophet,” and who
was dressed in a suit of sheepskins, was brought before the Folkestone
Bench charged with having caused an obstruction in George-lane.
Mr. Bradley—What is your Christian and surname ?
Defendant—I have only one name, and that is Elijah.
Mr. Bradley—That is an assumed name.
Defendant—Well, that is the one given me.
Mr. Bradley—What is your Christian and surname? '
Defendant—I have only the one name, and that is Elijah, the name I
travel under.
Dr. Bateman—What name were you baptised in ?
Defendant—Oh, that’s it. Well, I was known by the name of Henry
William Whittaker—spell it with two “ t’s.”
Mr. Bradley—You are charged with having, on the 20th inst.,
wilfully, by a certain board, obstructed a certain thoroughfare, George-
lane. Are you guilty or not guilty ?
Defendant—I believe there is plenty of room for carriages to pass
through.
Mr. Bradley—You say not guilty 9
Defendant—I believe there is plenty of room for carriages to pass.
Mr. Bradley—Then you say you are not guilty ?
Defendant—I offered to move on. I have been imposed on in Folke¬
stone in a way that is not very pleasant.
Sergeant Woodland said—About half-past eight last night I was sent
for to go to George-lane. I saw a lot of people there—two hundred, or
more. I saw the prisoner there on the pavement, close to the pillar¬
box. He was holding up this board. (The board, which was produced,
was about eighteen inches square, attached to a long stick. On the
board was the inscription, “ I am Elijah the Prophet, and will preach
I at Rye, Sussex. (Malachi iv. 5).” I went across to him and asked him
to move away. “ What for 1 ” he asked. “ If you don’t go away I
shall be obliged to shift you or move you, I replied.” The people began
to holloa and shout, and I took hold of his wool (laughter), and brought
him to the station. I had had several complaints about him. He came
with me very quietly.
Mr. Bradley—Do you know how long he has been in the town ?
Witness—No, sir, I saw him in the afternoon in Dover-street.
In reply to the Mayor witness said George-lane was blocked up, and
the people reached right over to Mr. Major’s shop.
Mr. Bradley (to the defendant)—Do you wish to ask the constable any
questions ?
Defendant—Yes, I should like to. (To the constable)—Did I say to
| you what my grievance was, or was it to another constable ? If it was
to you I should like you to mention it.
Sergeant Woodland — You said you were Elijah the Prophet.
(Laughter.)
Defendant—Did I not mention my grievance to you ?
Witness—No.
Defendant—Then it was to another constable; perhaps he is present.
I mentioned it to three altogether.
Mr. Bradley (to the Superintendent)—Is that the case ?
Superintendent Wilshere—Yes, sir.
Mr. Bradley (to the defendant)—Now you may tell the magistrates
| your grievance.
The Defendant—When I came into Folkestone about half an hour
after sunset yesterday, having walked from Mersham, my first business
was to get a lodging, as I came here for four or five nights. That was
| what I endeavoured to get first of all. I fortunately succeeded in doing
I so at the “ Crown and Anchor.” I endeavoured to get it at other places,
| but did not succeed. I went to the “ Crown and Anchor ” for the
| simple reason that the landlady came out and said she had taken a
fancy to my sheepskins, and could she do anything in a Christian way
for me? I said if she could let me have a good bed I should be
thankful. I thought her a good Christian woman, and I said I would
| like to inspect the bed, but, after agreeing to pay one shilling per night
for five nights, I sat down, being very tired, and it being the Sabbath;
it came in at 3.30 that afternoon. I sat down by the fire, until about
5.80 I suppose it was, when, her husband having come in and having
had a little conversation, I said I should like to wash my hands. I
1 went to the room, and not only washed my hands but decided to go to
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 3, 1879.
bed, for I was very tired. I went to bed, and was disturbed by the
landlord coming up and saying he wanted me down below, and that I
had made a mistake and forgot myself by going to bed at that early hour.
Well, I said I would be down soon, and he came a second time with a
constable, and I went down. The grievance was, I had not paid for the
bed. I paid the shilling, and then he wanted me to go. I said, “ I
want my shilling back, because I am entitled to stop here until eight
o’clock to-morrow morning.” He said, “ You won’t have that,” and his
wife chimed in and said, “ That is a proper charge for the rest you have
already had.” (Laughter.) I did not quite agree with that—(laughter)—
and so I said it was a dirty trick for Folkestone. I said, “ If you want
the whole town to hear of this you had better keep the shilling, but if
you don’t you had better give it to me back.” He declined to
give it back, nor yet sixpence. Of course I was told to leave
the house as soon as possible. I went to three other places,
but could not succeed in getting a lodging. Of course I had
to stop and look in various directions for a lodging, but whilst
I was doing so the people congregated around in a most astonishing
way. I suppose they thought I was going to preach, so they congre¬
gated in rather large numbers, and I had to move on. But whilst I
was staring round in some other direction I was taken in charge by this
gentleman (pointing to the constable) in a very fatherly sort of way—
(laughter)—who landed me here, a place where I have enjoyed myself
very much. And one thing I can say in favour of this establishment,
they have not charged me one farthing for it. (Laughter.) They have
provided me with a fire, where I have been up to the present. I was
visited by a gentleman (the doctor), and I suppose you know what took
place at the examination that was proceeded with. One gentleman
came in and said I was decidedly insane, for the simple reason that I
was not clad as he was, but even in a superior way, even in sheepskins.
I am quite used to being called insane.
Mr. Bradley—What| was your object in coming to Folkestone ?—To
preach, sir.
Were you preaching 1—No, sir, I never preach on the Sabbath. I
preach on Saturday night after sunset.
The Mayor—Is that all you have to say ?
Defendant—Nothing else to say, sir.
Mr. Bradley—If you are discharged do you intend to remain in the
town or leave it ?
Defendant—My engagements are to stay here until the 24th. I am
sent to various places—Folkestone, Hythe, Dymchurch, Romney, and
various other places.
Dr. Bateman—You must not preach in the street.
Defendant—Oh no, I preach in rooms and vacant places.
Dr. Bateman—Your appearance is enough to collect a crowd.
You need not be astonished at the people believing you to be a lunatic.
Defendant—Not after hearing me preach; I have never found it so
before.
The Mayor—In dismissing this case we hope you will leave the
town if possible. If you obstruct the pathway again the police will deal
with you again as they have done, and we shall deal with you in a very
different way. The case is dismissed.
Wishing, in the interests of psychology, to know more
about The Prophet and his visions, I went to the “Edinburgh
Castle,” a new and popular restaurant in Folkestone, where
the Prophet was said to sojourn. The landlord told me that
he had that day departed for Hythe, after having had a
series of visions which revealed to him that certain indi¬
viduals who had been kind to him belonged to the tribe of
Levi. I took train to Hythe, arrived there between six and
seven o’clock in the evening, and traversed its almost
deserted streets in search of the Prophet. “ There he is !”
said a boy ; and crossing the end of the street in which we
were standing was a man all in white, who appeared and
disappeared like a sheeted ghost as the intervening houses
shut him out from view.
A minute or two later, from the bar of the “ Rose and
Crown,” I saw through the doorway of the bar parlour the
object of my visit, the rays of a bright fire throwing his
visage and the tea-table before him into high relief. I ex¬
pressed a desire to speak to him, and the landlord kindly
invited me into the inner chamber, where I seated myself
on a couch, with The Prophet opposite me, and the tea-
table between us, with nobody else in the room.
He was not communicative, nor did I feel altogether
justified in putting personal questions to a stranger on the
ground that his dress was not my dress, nor his thoughts my
thoughts. He had a refined, handsome face, fingers which
would have been a study to any chiromancer, so thin were
they at the joints next the hand, expanding at the joints
next the nails. His complexion was clear, and his cheeks . .
delicately red. His bulky but highly artistic white dress of J
sheepskins, with the wool outside, gave a stalwart, manly
solidity to his frame which it did not naturally possess, and
although in the dress he looked exceptionally handsome, I
thought that in ordinary costume he would have been set
down as a “ pretty” and a “ weak” man ; he had a thin,
narrow head, and outside his compensating garb I think
| | that he would have been a picture of enthusiastic irresolu-
| | tion. His white dress was of the Russian style; it was
111 lined with bright red cloth, and in his vest were articles of
]l| jewellery.
m While I was silently contemplating him a Stolid Man,
| I who looked like a drover off duty, came in. He sat down
| | on a chair near the head of my couch, bent one arm to the
| (| curve usually described by the handle of a jug, pressed the
I closed fist of the arm upon his knee, brought both his eye-
I balls to bear upon The Prophet, and continued in that posi¬
tion for the next half hour, until long after the arrival of
others, without uttering a word. If he did not then
thoroughly understand the Unknown, it was not for want of
| ocular contemplation; a figure from a wax-works never ex-
I [ pressed less desire to apologise for its unwavering gaze than
| | did the Stolid Man. Steadfast was his stare as that of
| I Egypt’s Sphinx.
This obtrusive ocular examination, and the recollection
j that The Prophet “ laid himself out” as a public man, were
J encouragements to me. I asked him whether he had any
I objection to tell when he first heard that he was the Prophet
j Elijah.
“ Last September,” was the laconic reply.
| “ How did you receive the information ?”
The Prophet—“ Chiefly by vision. Why do you ask ?”
“ Because I have known of similar cases. Some unknown
| power has been brought to bear upon truthful individuals,
j and they have believed themselves to be in communication
I with sacred personages, whose utterances were so inferior as
I not to bear out the claim in the eyes of clear-headed third
persons.”
! The Prophet—“ Then you have heard the stupid story of
the boys, that I say I came to the earth by sliding down a
rainbow.”
“ Yes. I have heard it, but it was not in my mind.”
The Prophet—“ Do you know anything of the Spirit¬
ualists ?”
This sudden home question took me by surprise. I re¬
plied, “ Yes.”
The Prophet—“Have you ever been to any of their
| seances ?”
I “Yes.”
The Prophet—“ What do you think of them ?”
“ I think that the phenomena of spirit circles are partly of
j spiritual and partly of mesmeric and physiological origin,
| and that the facts for the most part are not yet thoroughly
| understood.”
The Prophet—“ Is it true that spirit hands and spirit faces
I are sometimes seen at spirit circles, just as you see me now ?
| I have often wished to be present at a stance, but never had
| an opportunity.”
“ Yes. In drawing rooms I have seen such things among
I | plenty of other witnesses. But did you think you were the
Prophet Elijah before you were told so on authority, by
vision ?”
The Prophet—“A few days previously I had the idea.
The vision came to me at three in the morning; I had then
been sleeping for several hours in an arm chair.”
“ Do you recollect a previous existence to this as the
Prophet Elijah, or anybody else ; or do you accept the posi¬
tion because you have been told so ?”
The Prophet—“ I do not recollect a previous existence,
but was told of it. Why do you ask ?”
‘ ‘ Because I think that, without conscious deception on
either side, spirits sometimes try to communicate with sensi¬
tive mortals, and that false names are sometimes inter¬
changed by both, owing to misunderstood mental and meta¬
physical difficulties incidental to the means of communica¬
tion. What is your mission ?”
The Prophet—“ To resuscitate in these days the Jewish
law.”
“ A nice law that 1 ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a
tooth,’ to wit.”
The Prophet—“ I mean the Jewish code modified by Chris¬
tianity.”
Here three men were ushered in by the landlord. One
| was a thin man, who leant with arms folded against the
| opposite side of the room, and said little the rest of the
i evening; the second was an intelligent-looking man, in a
Jan. 3, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
7
country garb, with some old uniform cloak or coat thrown over j) i
it: the third was a noisy, good-natured, foxy-haired man, who j j |
claimed at first to come from Birmingham, and who spoke 11 i
as the superior of the other two. The fancy dawned upon j j j
me from their ways, and some passing utterances, that all j (
three were detectives in plain clothes. The Prophet had | I
only arrived in Hythe a few hours previously, it was natural ! j
that the police should wish to know something more about | |
him, and the sayings of the Foxy Man, the choicest of | j j
which I quietly took down in shorthand, did not display that j j j
knowledge of Bible history or language which would have 11!
supported the ostensible pretext on which he sought the | I
company of the Prophet Elijah. He ordered meat and drink I j!
for himself and the Intelligent Man. These were brought j I!
in by a butcher’s boy, who remained in the room grinning | j!
at the Prophet, while he (the boy) stood with his back to 1
the fire, the breadth of a section of his frame receiving j (I
the full benefit of its agreeable warmth. j j
“ I’ve got to go away from Hythe in a few hours,” said |
the Foxy Man to The Prophet, 1 * but I couldn’t leave without 11
seeing you.” [ j
“ Why not?” said The Prophet. I
" Why, to be able to say I’ve seen you. I come from | j |
Birmingham, I do. Oh, you and me together could make | I
a nice little book.” j (j
“ What do you mean ?” responded The Prophet.
“ You’re so good-looking. That’s how you does it. Oh!
You’re deep. But you fellows shy large towns.” i
The Prophet—“ Why ?” j
" Because you’d get locked up.” I
The Prophet—“ They wanted to lock me up in Folkestone i \
for creating an obstruction.” I j
“Yes. And in London they’d do it. In a little bye- ||
street it wouldn’t matter, but in a main thoroughfare you’d !
draw a crowd and stop the trams; then you’d be locked up.
But here you makes your little coin because you’re so |
deuced good-looking.” J j
The Prophet—“ I’m afraid of rough talk and rough ways.” j j
Here Foxy seemed somewhat disconcerted, and his sub- | j
ordinate gave a chuckle, with his mouth full of meat.
“ Oh, yes,” said Foxy, “ anybody can see that you are a j
gentleman—that you are of no common kind. Why don’t | j
you talk ? You let me do all the talking.” ) 1
The Prophet—“ This is the Sabbath. I’m not at work j (j
now.” {
“ It’s Friday night.” |!
The Prophet—“ It’s the Sabbath from sunset to sunrise.” !
All this time the Intelligent Man was engaged in the i
doubly congenial occupation of making headway with a j j
plate of meat, and seeing his superior making a failure of (
every attempt to draw much information from the man in j j
sheepskins. 111
“ Look here, my friend,” said the Foxy Man, u a farmer j \ j
near here writes to me, and says, says he—‘ Here’s Eliza |;j
the Prophet a scooping of a cave for hisself in my field ’— | j j
but you’re not Eliza; you’re a devilish deal too good-looking S j j
for an Israelite. Those little games you couldn’t carry on in | j j
big towns like Manchester.” m
The Prophet—“Do you know Manchester? Is it a big in
place ?” j j j
“ Yes. I come from there. Why Grinnidge is only as 11 j
big as—as—as—let me see—How many Grinnidge’s would it j ? j
take to make a Manchester ?” j > i
Here the Foxy Man cast his eyes to the ceiling, lost in the j j
intricacies of calculation. ) I
The Stolid Man, with the stone jug arm, who had had his j j
eyes fixed upon The Prophet for the last half hour, here j j
grasped an Idea. He turned to me and said, “ You got on j
better with him; perhaps you’d better say some more.”
I thought of recommending The Prophet to call on Mr. \ i
Munton, and to submit his experiences to the Psychological j; I
Society, but I held my tongue, and the Foxy Man was on i (I
too good terms with himself to wish anybody else to “ take j j j
the floor.” j | j
He continued in an aggrieved tone to the assembled com- j j!
pany, “ If he (The Prophet) now, would only tell me his little | j
tip, I would try to open some holes for him.” j |
Elijah, the Prophet, did not appear to comprehend. It j j
might as well have been Hebrew. i) i
Foxy continued—“ Says my wife to me, 1 Oh, he (The
Prophet) is devilish good-looking, far better looking than
you are, and,’ says she, ( either he’s pulling a string or he’s
off his puff!’ Look here! Won’t you give me your auto¬
graph ?” He added, with a meaning look to his assistants,
“We want that.”
The Prophet—“ What do you want it for 1”
“Oh, I want to show it to my children in years gone by.”
The Prophet was too lost in contemplation of high subjects
to notice the slip in the last careless utterance.
Gradually it seemed to dawn upon Foxy that The Prophet
was not “pulling a string,” but was perhaps “ off his puff,”
so he changed the conversation.
“ Look here,” said Foxy, “ as you won’t talk on business,
tell me about them other things—about the Jewidicial Messiah,
who was the son of David.”
If a photograph of a man cannot be obtained on a reasonable
excuse, manifestly his autograph is the next best thing for
easy circulation by post, to furnish presumptive evidence of
identity. This demand for an autograph strengthened my
fancy that the three men were detectives.
The last train being about to start, I rose to leave.
“You’re not going?” good-naturedly said Foxy and the
rest of the company in chorus, taking a somewhat sudden
interest in me, considering that I had said nothing in their
presence. Nevertheless, a kind of feeling of freemasonry had
sprung up. We seven, including the butcher boy, formed a
mysterious party ; we had secrets which the public of Hythe,
who were flattening their noses against the window-panes of
the “Rose and Crown,” strove in vain to fathom, andthe people
in the bar craned their necks forward every time the bar-room
door was opened to catch a glimpse of The Prophet and his
highly-favoured visitors. Once let us separate and we became
but ordinary mortals, instead of a privileged class. “ Shut
the door,” said Foxy every time it was opened; “I can’t keep
up conversation if anybody is listening.”
But we parted.
As for the Prophet, he is one of those psychic sensitives
who are misunderstood by the doctors, the police, the world,
and themselves, and who are born to suffer. I heard that
originally he was an artist, and that his native place was
Hastings.   
DESOLATION.
The following lines by Miss C. A. Burke are from Rifts in the Veil;-—
Wake, wake, 0 Harp,
Pour forth thy mournful strain—
Wake, golden strings,
To a bygone note of pain;
Murmur in heedless ears
The sorrows of these years,
With an undertone of tears,
For sad refrain.
Break, break, 0 Heart!
What dost for thee remain ?
Only a bitter past
Suffered and spent in vain:
A present with sad skies,
And hidden mysteries,
A future, to thine eyes
The sad past o’er again.
The Lunacy Laws.—On Tuesday evening next, at 7.30 p.m., Mrs.
Weldon will lecture again at St. James’s Hall on “ The Lunacy
Laws,” and at the termination of her address will sing Gounod’s sacred
song, “Ruth,” as well as other selections. A collection will be made
to defray expenses.
Sunday Services.—On Sunday evening next, at half-past seven
o’clock, Mr. J. W. Fletcher, the well-known trance medium, will
deliver an inspirational lecture at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street,
Regent-street, London, on “ The Religion of Spirituahsm.” Mrs. Weldon,
whose great vocal abilities are so well known, will attend and sing some
sacred selections on the occasion. There will be no collection. It is to
be hoped that there will be a good attendance.
Mr. Blyton writes that “ Spiritualism, its Facts and Teachings,” will
be the subject of an inspirational discourse, with questions and answers
at the close, to be delivered through the mediumship of Mr. E. W.
Wallis, at 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, London, on Monday^evening next,
6th inst., at eight o’clock, admission free. As the meeting is intended
as a benefit one to Mr. E. W. Wallis, the attendance of Spiritualists
with their friends is invited. Voluntary contributions will be received
at the close of the meeting.
8
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 3, 1879.
33o«rs.
MINISTERING ANGELS.
BT A LITTLE GIRL.
Softly fall the shades of night,
Dimly shines the clear starlight;
Unseen shadows come and go,
Angel forms flit to and fro’;
Unknown voices sweetly sing,
Heavenly blessings do they bring,
Spirit balm for soothing those
Oppressed with cares and many woes.
Unseen visitants- they come,
From their spiritual home,
To guide the souls of suffering mortals,
Higher, until at.heaven’s own portals’.
Beatrice Nosworthy.
iEonrsponneuce.
[ Great Jreedowi is given do correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers'. Preference is given to letters which
. are not anonymous."]  
THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OP SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—la reading a life of De Quincy (by H. A. Page) lately, I have
been exceedingly struck with several passages of it, which seem to point
so strongly to his having been medial to a very high degree, that I
cannot forbear venturing to encroach upon your valuable space to quote
a passage. . He describes a vision he had, while a child, on the death of
his sister. He was about six years old, and he stole secretly to a room
where the body of this sister lay. He knelt down by her side, and kissed
her in a passion of grief. He then, it seems, fell into a state of trance,
only hearing “ a solemn wind which began to blow.” Then he had a
vision, which he records probably from his after memory, for it is need¬
less to say it was utterly beyond a child’s comprehension or description.
When he awoke from this trance he says, “ I have reason to believe that
a very long interval had elapsed during this wandering or suspension
of my perfect mind; when I returned to myself there was a foot, or I
fancied so, on the stairs. I was alarmed, and slunk away.” He
speaks of it in after years as “ wandering from his perfect mind; ” and
it is strange that the utter incongruity of the whole thing never struck
him. In the first place, what does he mean by the perfect mind of a
child of six years of age? A child of that age of ordinary mental
qualifications would scarcely have any mind at all to speak of, but more
the animal impressions of love or fear ; kissing the fair little corpse, and
being more afraid and confused than anything else.
The remarkable vision this child saw, and was enabled afterwards
to describe, appears to me to suggest that the spirit of a child is already,
as it were, full grown; but the intellect belonging to the body, i. e., the
mental power of deciphering the promptings of the spirit of course is
still incomplete and immature. Precocious children seem to have a
mental power in this direction, however, that is often astonishing, and if
accompanied with health and vigour of body, it leads to great results, or
should do so. Throughout the life of De Quincy there are the strong
indications of his powerful medial and clairvoyant capabilities; hut
being totally ignorant of the powers of his spirit, they caused him great
torture of mind.
The whole story of his opium eating, his dreaming, and his mental
suffering appears to me an exceedingly interesting psychological subject.
Throughout his life there are constant references to his spiritual nature
and powers; yet both the author of De Quincy’s life, as well as he him¬
self, seem utterly ignorant what they meant. Poor De Quincy appears
to me to have possessed a body subject in the highest degree to spiritual
influences, and alas, instead of learning to welcome and to be thankful
for these strange effects, and to understand them, they only seemed to
ca.use him torture and fear, as if he struggled in vain against an unwel¬
come visitor, a life-long nightmare. His was a sweet, lovely, pure
mind, and had he known how to welcome the rays from heaven, and to
open his soul to the light, one cannot say of what value his experience
might not have been in a spiritual sense. As it was, it is incomplete.
This subject leads me to venture to say a few words in reply to the
interesting letter in this week’s Spiritualist, by Miss Kislingbury,
in which she seems doubtful of the real value of Spiritualism for the
benefit of mankind. I think it is strange that any one who has taken
an interest in this most stupendously interesting subject can possibly for
one instant doubt its ultimate value, though well aware of all its short¬
comings and drawbacks. It appears to me—though I venture in all
modesty and humility to make any assertions whatsoever on matters of
spiritual feeling—that Spiritualism answers to the cries of those in the
wilderness as nothing else can do. By these I mean the men and women
of either powerful or poetical mental capacities, such as De Quincy.
To these people church or chapel means husks and dry bones. The
spirit is gone out of them; and they are ready to say,. “If the spirit
ever existed it must be somewhere, for it is not here,’11 These people
find it in Spiritualism, and having found it, it does not much matter what
outward profession of religion they serve—it is all one to them. They
have found the spirit; their natures are illuminated: and they, in their
turn, find all past religion illuminated.
It must be understood that when I say a Spiritualist, I do not mean
only a “ wonder seeker,” or one who forsakes worship. I mean one who
does, however, seek wonders, hut not always at s&ances; and one who
does not forsake worship, though worship may not mean to hi'm a public
place of worship on Sundays or any other day. I mean a Spiritualist—
cne whose body is the temple of the Holy Ghost;, whose whole mind is
attuned to the marvels and wonders of creation and science; and one
who seeks wonders for the enlargement of his own mind and those of
h | others: one who prays for wisdom, and one who finds it; one who
i ) | worships God in spirit and in truth, and one who respects all religion
|«| in others, when held in all sincerity and reverence. I think, however,
n j such a Spiritualist must and will find the ordinary forms of religions
];H existing in Christendom at this period very insufficient for his wants,
j«i and would grieve to go back to believe that the Church catechism,
i (| beliefs, church services, sermons, &c., of the present day, belonging to
j)! any Church—Roman Catholic or Protestant—supplied sufficient food
i < | either for his spiritual or intellectual nature. Religion of this kind
|) | appears to me a dead silence; the only voices which one hears are those
i|l of the clergy; and what do they tell us ? “ Tales of the past ? ” “ True,”
| vj we some of us feel and know, but still all gone and passed away. We
| ) j are living still, and each century takes us farther from that time;
||j and as each year rolls by man’s soul feels it must learn more,
|y| and that the Divine Yoice is neither dead nor sleeping; and
|) i to be eternally going back cannot be, and is not good for
I (j the souls of men, which are governed always by the law of progress.
IllWe must go forwards in our religion as well as in everything else.
|) Reverence for the past, but to live for the future, should be our motto.
II And I believe that Spiritualism may have its vulgar and its sordid side
i I from unspiritual natures in the midst of it, who for the time have
I) put wedding garments on, and that it may lead people to what are
! ( called unorthodox views in so-called religious questions, that it may
j j have and has a dark side on which the spiritual sun has not yet shone,
j) It may have all this, but yet I cannot but feel and believe the spiritual
j | sun will shine on the world as it never has shone before, and through the
! | i medium of Spiritualism man’s nature will be influenced as it
ivij never was before. • Religion will not be wrapt up in the Bible,
‘'Jill clergymen, and priests, who can only now tell us of the past.
|||! “We all know it.” There is nothing further to he learnt about
J j it. The rule of life is what we want to know, and who has now
| authority to teach us ? Faith has died out from among us,
| because our prophets are dead ! That is no reason, though, that none
| |:| shall be born again. New cycles require new spiritual dispensations,
j|i| and it appears to me that clinging to old dispensations, and to the
|) I forms of religious worship proceeding from them, would place us much
j j i as the Jews of old were placed, inasmuch as they could not receive, or
|) i did not, the gospel of the new dispensation, as preached by the man
|) | with the divine nature—Christ. Not that I mean to say or infer that
j j j I know anything about a new dispensation—such things are too far and
|) j beyond me. All I do say is this, that the old dispensation is dying out,
|) i or why would real faith be so dead among us ? We are now a nation
! I :| of atheists (if there be such beings), sordid and grovelling in the earthli-
! | ness of our natures, hypocrites and sensualists, living for this world
j) | only, having the outward form of godliness, and none of it inwardly,
j I | Just, however, because we are sinking so very low, the still small voice
j j is beginning to be heard that we must rise and gird our loins, that we
| I must turn our eyes to the divine light of spiritual progress; that this
j ( | light, once shed upon our souls, will forbid the possibility of atheism or
i I sensuality, the two deadly sins belonging to man; we shall feel it in
I j j ourselves as a law, not because we have been told so, but because we
II ! know it to be so’. Even now what an influence for good among the poor
j I j and uneducated, Spiritualism ought to have if properly taught. That is,
j j i if the spiritual side of man’s nature is awakened, as it may be now by
| j | Spiritualism, and as it rarely can be in other ways.
I'ij The working classes have lost their belief and reverence for church
j < | and chapel, because they are given dry bones to eat when they want
11 | spiritual food. Part of their natures are for ever being unsatisfied, and
j j | so they crave for bodily excitement, strong drinks, and animal passions,
| i something to fill the horrible vacuum. A century or so ago the element
I j j of fear was the strongest feature in their religion; fear of the devil
| | caused them, they thought, to love God and obey the Church. That
j | | element is disappearing, and with it all obedience, reverence, and moral
I ) | discipline, which at all events they derived through the teaching of
II j their instructors. That is all passing away. Everything seems pass-
i | j ing away; and what is taking its place, or what should take its place ?
| | Not Spiritualism as described by Miss Kislingbury—that is nothing but
11 | the writhing of uneasy souls, or the flutterings of the flighty ones—but
! I Spiritualism as it should be, ought to be, and may be, and by following
| ! which we shall all seek to be better, not because we shall better our-
| | selves thereby, but because all other courses would be repugnant to us.
11 j Materialism and sensualism will be impossible to us. The search after
| | wisdom and the knowledge of God will then be the real aim of our
| | lives, to prepare ourselves for the real life of which this is only a type
| j | and foreshadowing. The great ones of the earth ought to be the wise
| j | and good ones, and the serving ones those still struggling with the sins
J|I of their natures. Seances, trance addresses, may yet be composed of
| j | many inferior elements, and there is much in the investigation of
| j! Spiritualism that is disheartening to the mind of the earnest seeker; but
| | i that is chiefly because the spiritual part of it is as yet so tainted by
j ( | us. We are to blame, not Spiritualism. If we purify and strengthen
j | | our souls, the atmosphere will float us; and Spiritualism cannot
| | | teach us to put spirits in the place of God, neither will it
| ( j seek to abrogate any Divine rule if it emanated from God, but it will
i) | serve to make that rule easy to us : it will teach us to overcome the
! I I world and the flesh—if that means to teach us the real use of our bodies
| ( j as temples for our souls—and it will teach us to take heed to our ways,
11 j because there will be no other ways but those towards God possible to
j i us. It will, in short, I venture to hope and believe, take us out of the
11 | cloud of darkness under which we are now wandering, and show us by
I) I the finger of science and the eye of faith what we are, whence we come,
i | and where we go. Those timorous spirits, however, who shrink from
| i coming out of the shelter of the past, should remain where they are. To
i | them it is not given to know the things of the spirit; the time will come
j j ! for them; but the brave, fearless ones should boldly come out, and not
j | j shrink from the noble duty of carrying the standard of truth, but in all
1 *1 gentleness and courtesy, as the strong protecting the weak, and waging
Jan. 3, 1879.
9
THE SPIRITUALIST.
war with nothing but hypocrisy, selfishness, and all such ignoble vices.
Truth may vary in its aspects to different minds. Let each person
respect another’s honest idea of truth. The germ of all truth is the
same: different flowers, but all the same seed.
Isabel de Steiger.
Kensington, December 27th.
Sm,—Miss Kislingbury has a way of making me rub my eyes. This
time I have rubbed them very hard, and have turned to your report of
my paper to see whether by chance a misprint had misled her into mis¬
quotation.
I find, however, that I am there reported as saying what I did say,
that “ the whole code,” not “ the sole code ”. (a very different thing), of
personal religion follows, or may be deduced from, certain facts.
I should most assuredly decline to say that “ belief in immortality
constitutes the sole code of personal religion.” That, I quite agree, is
“ an astonishing statement.” But I never made it. I am not able to
approximate to any sort of acceptance of it.
What I did argue was that an age little given to accept any dogma
on grounds of mere faith, might derive inestimable help in building up
the fabric of personal religion from the fact that one or two of the under¬
lying doctrines have received the sanction of demonstration from
objective experiment. The two that I instanced were perpetuated life
(not immortality, please; we cannot prove that) and perpetuated indi-
viduality, as evidenced by the survival of interests, affections, and
the like.
Be it noticed that I reserved in terms, and excluded from my argu¬
ment, that side of religion which affects God. I argued that we were
receiving in these days of fading faith precisely the sort of evidence
most necessary to revive it. Perhaps my meaning would be made still
clearer if I substitute “ an entire code ” for the word used.
But whether or not my argument was justified, whether I was right
or wrong in endeavouring to show that the Spiritualism I was expound¬
ing (which is not by any means that referred to by Miss Kislingbury)
is intimately connected with religion (which, again, is not Miss Kisling-
bury’s religion), is a small matter. I hold to my view, but I am entirely
able to see that it will not commend itself to one who views Spiritualism
from the standpoint which Miss Kislingbury now occupies. And I have
seen enough of the divergent views that different minds take of the
same truth to acquiesce in the result without further argument.
But the letter in which Miss Kislingbury propounds her views with so
much courtesy to myself contains statements which, openly challenged,
I am bound to say I cannot accept or agree with. If she will allow
me, I will take leave of her, and concerning myself only with the views
stated in her letter, confine myself to impersonal criticism.
if. Will it save a man’s soul to know that he lives for ever ? ” Certainly
not. First of all, he does not knovj it. He is told so on authority
which may or may not induce belief} but cannot give knowledge. And
next. If such a belief, assured to him best by the methods of
Spiritualism, will not “ save his soul,” it will, at any rate, be the most
potent method that I know of to stir him up to “ work out his own salva¬
tion with fear and trembling,” as one who knows better than most
people what that phrase means. And this is the very work which in
the sentence next to that which I have quoted is called “ religion.” It
is not all-round religion, but it is a very large portion of it; and I
think that an entire “code of personal religion” might be made to
hang upon it.
The “burning questions” of Spiritualism—shall I say of the
broadest human interests, irrespective of creed or religion 1—are, no
doubt, the relation of the soul to the Creator, sin, and forgiveness, and
that quaint et cetera, “ many other important and vital points.” Spirit¬
ualism, it is hinted, can tell us nothing about these; and the allegation
is justified (if at all) by the patent fact that Spiritualism does not make
Spiritualists perfect.
Well, Spiritualism has told me all that I knoio about the questions
at issue. I will go further, and say that it is the only source from which
I have been able to derive any knowledge whatever on the subject. I
have been told much by those who conceive themselves to have a pre¬
scriptive authority to teach me—some of which I agree with, and some
of which I do not—and, exercising the inalienable right of private judg¬
ment, I abide by my selection:
“ If it be not true to me,
What care I how true it be ”
to somebody else P Nor can I follow the argument which condemns
such an all-embracing form of belief as Spiritualism, because it does
not make its votaries perfect; because they disport themselves as though
in “ a tea-garden.”
Shall we pursue the argumentum ad hominem f Where is the religion
so potent in its effects, so majestic in its creed, so purifying in its
spiritual influence, that its followers are “ living sermons known and
read of all men that all “ may take knowledge of them that they have
been with ’’ God ? Let me know, that I may at once enlist myself in
its ranks, and cry like a leper to be cleansed. Are all Christians
holy / all Catholics ornaments of the faith? Is the life always, or
even generally, the reflex of the belief? Nay, do we not all know
noble men who adorn human life, and set examples that all might be
the better for following, whose minds, as far as faith goes, are a blank ;
whose spirit, as respects any belief in the future, or in what the writer
of this letter points out as the methods of sustaining spiritual life in the
present, is a very Sahara of arid and dreary negation ?
“ If Spiritualism is teaching us to put spirits in the place of God.”
It does nothing of the sort. It teaches us to approach the Supreme
through those who are His intermediary agencies; to aspire higher and
higher, and to use their aid and guidance, if so be, by His mercy in the
far-distant future, when ages upon ages have rolled away, when we have
purified our souls by the methods they have taught us, we may behold
His Face.
iAnd teaching us so, it leads us to cast aside with loathing and dis¬
gust that pseudo-familiarity with God and all his plans; that vulgar
assumption of intimate knowledge of the scheme of the universe by
certain self-constituted privy councillors of the Creator, which is theo¬
logy’s culminating and most hypocritical absurdity.
“If it is to abrogate the rule that we must overcome the world, the
| flesh, and whatever else to us and in us is Satanic.” No ! It does the
| very reverse. Inculcating as one of its cardinal principles that man is
what he makes himself, that this life is a school of training for the
| next, it points out with far more stringency and cogency than any
other system known to me the very duties in question, with an
infinitely more persuasive voice than any system that in any way
I sanctions the shifting of responsibility, or the purchase of immunity
from the consequences of sin by any method whatsoever.
Miss Kislingbury does not expect from Spiritualism anything better
than that it should be a crutch to prop up old forms of faith. Well,
I they need it badly. But I, at least, expect from it something more ,*
if only this, that it should be the sledge hammer that breaks the skull
not only of materialism, but of fossilised orthodoxy. I look to it, after it
has run its course and done its duty, for results similar to those pro-
| duced by the heretical teaching of Christ upon the Judaic Pharisaism
and infidelity of that age. As a concrete system I am willing to admit
its faults, and shall be content if it and they be abolished together.
But as a factor in the religious thought of the age, as a regenerating
j force operating most strongly within the pale of religious systems that
! sadly need purifying, I believe it to be imperishable in its effects.
| Like Miss Kislingbury, I have always discouraged the formation of
| private circles, save under carefully guarded conditions. We want more
| knowledge before such steps can be safely recommended.
May I take this opportunity of thanking a large number of corre-
J spondents who have written me kind words of approval respecting my
| paper, and of begging them to pardon me if I do not reply to them pri¬
vately ? W. Stainton Moses, M.A.
! Sir,—Perhaps you may be as willing to grant me a little space to
j express my agreement with some of your writers, as you would be if I
| found myself impelled to oppose them. We know that the world con¬
tains the world in itself, and we believe that God contains all spirits in
| Himself; at least some of us do. There is a figure in rhetoric in which
| the container is put for the contained. When a man for whom I have
| a well grounded respect says that his belief in immortality furnishes his
“ sole code of personal religion,” I put this meaning into it. All motives
| to love and service, all tendencies to universal right, are contained in
| the belief or knowledge of immortality. “If man is of yesterday
and no to-morrow,” it matters comparatively little what may be his
| course of conduct. When a human being having the ordinary common
sense seen among us comes to the certainty that he is to live for ever,
| and that his society is to be determined by the law of likeness, surely
this belief holds in it every motive for personal religion. By religion
j I mean adherence to the highest right; the keeping a conscience void
of offence toward all.
| There is nothing more true than that there are great differences
between Spiritualists and Spiritualists, between Spiritualism and
Spiritualism. This must be so. There are souls at a very uncomfort¬
able and inconvenient point of progress. Still they are souls. As a
] Christian I believe that God made all, and will redeem all; and if the
All-Perfect can bear with imperfection, how is it that I am unwilling
to even try to be patient? Whatever others may do or think, knowing
myself to be immortal, I must seek the means to purify my soul, and
render myself worthy of the higher life to which I aspire. No one could
better state the action of the motive power contained in the faith or know-
| ledge of immortality than Miss Kislingbury has done; but the “burning
I questions in Spiritualism ” differ to different persons. An infant turns
to the mother’s breast. It seeks 'personal nourishment; the mature
j man feeds himself and others. To an infantile soul the question of
| questions is—Shall I see again my lost loved ones—my mother ?
] The Church Catholic recognises this want of the greatest number of
men and women. Ten “ Hail Mary’s ” are said on the rosary to
one “ Our Father,” yet this love of the Blessed Mother and other holy
sainted souls leads right on to the questions recognised as “ burn¬
ing,” or all important, namely, “ The relations of the soul to God.”
| j “ If a man love not his brother whom he has seen, how shall he
u | love God whom he hath not seen ? ” The Catholic spirit recognises
11 all the wants of the human soul, all “the vital points in man’s
11 spiritual history and development.” It leads also to patience with
, | those who believe, and yet who do not at once act worthy of their
j faith. How Spiritualists, or Catholics, or Calvinists, or a host of
11 others, can believe all they do, and yet not behave better, is a
i j marvel to me often; but I remember the end is not yet, and will not
M be in this world, and the means can surely be found by an omni-
JI potent God and Saviour to induce souls to work out their salvation,
i i some cheerfully, and some with fear and trembling. Once I did not
11 believe that this world is “astern training school for better states of
JI existence,’’ but I believe it now as earnestly as my friend Miss Kisling-
)! bury. The dear God was as good to me in my unbelief as the sun
M is to a green apple. In the loving warmth and light the apple
11 becomes ripe, and its luscious sweetness is very different from its
I green and crabbed condition. But it is the same apple, and the sun
) i impartially shone on its different states.
h Progress is a law of life, and death is a law, and often, if not
(I always, the gate of life. That “ Spiritualists forsake worship
(| for wonder - hunting ” may be true. But does not the great
(i world of men and women love the things that are new, even to spring
) i bonnets, and a new pattern of prayer books, holy pictures, and holy
f i water fonts—not to mention extatica, and new points for pilgrimages ?
(i And is not this very desire for the new and the wonderful a law of
1 progress to the soul ? Experience must teach us to expect from Spirit-
10
Jan. 3, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ualism as much as we seek in the most unselfish prayer of the soul.
Our prayers may not he answered in a day, or a year, but our reward is
sure for all unselfish love and seeking. When I say unselfish love, I
mean that which does good to others as readily as to ourselves.
I belong to a spiritual circle that makes self-denial and the help of
others its two primary rules. We begin by keeping continual Lent. No
member of Our circle takes tobacco, spirits, or flesh as food; all bathe
daily, and seek to keep the conscience as clean as the skin. We get
personal improvement in body and mind, and we get manifestations—I
say fearlessly—such as others do not get. Into this circle a year ago
last June came that honest, true-hearted boy, Willie Eglinton. He
came to us out of a brain fever, and severe gastric disease, brought on
him by high living and getting into discordant circles. He is very, very
sensitive, and bad conditions and rich flesh food had made him so ill
that for weeks he had no manifestations. I gave my opinion of his state
of disease, and its causes, and the remedy. ‘‘Joey” was sharp enough
to see that I was right, and firm enough to make Willie obey me. For
more than a year I was mother and physician to the boy. He had been
a smoker. He had drank wine, beer, &c., as others do—not intempe-
rately, as it is termed, but his health had suffered greatly. In the
privacy of our own home, Dr. Nichols and I examined the phenomena.
We had what “Ernest ” called “a model circle,” and we have never
published the most marvellous of our manifestations. Last year Willie
went to Holland. He is an eminently friendly person. I was told that
he smoked on the way with some sailors. Whether this is true I do
not know, for I did not ask him, but our first circle after his return was
a very disturbed one. Willie was thrown on the floor in a state of
catalepsy; tobacco was put in his mouth, being brought, as I am con¬
vinced, through locked doors. He was made awfully sick, and when he
came out of the cataleptic state he was told that if he were not careful
to avoid all his former bad habits he would go again into the state he
was in when he came to us.
I have seen so much of evil results in seances from bad habits, that I
think the first thing to teach people who seek spiritual manifestations is
that they should come into court with clean hands and hearts. If one’s
theological creed is cruel or merciful according to the state of their liver
and digestion, spiritual manifestations may be equally influenced.
As to putting spirits in the place of God, a Catholic should remember
that the great charge brought by Protestants against the Church is that
she puts the Blessed Mother and the saints in the place of God. People
make their way upward through the spirits to the Creator of the spirits.
The rivers run into the sea. Our Spiritualism, whether we are called
Catholics, Dissenters, or Spiritualists, is what we make it. It is pure,
if we are pure. Spiritualism is never to be trodden under foot, or cast
out, but our evils are to be trodden down and cast out. Then we shall
have the communion of saints instead of dealing with evil spirits.
As to select spirit circles being formed, we cannot be too select, but
I cannot be content to take my spirit communion and manifestations
secondhand; and others feel as I do. I must know for myself.
After we came into the Catholic Church from the teaching of spirits,
who appeared in our circle and spoke through me, teaching us the
dogmas of the Church that we knew nothing of (we did not even know
the number of the sacraments), I was assailed by many priests and
others, who believed that Spiritualism was diabolism. I said, “Why
should the devil bring me into the Church ? ’’ An archbishop said to
me, “ I never said it was the devil; but if it were I am much obliged to
him.”
A bishop said when some one told him that the devil had brought
us into the Church, “ I say the Lord sent them if the devil brought
them.” After I had been “ knocked about” a good deal by those who
held the “diabolic theory” of Spiritualism, I became acquainted
with a Roman Catholic priest, who was a doctor of Divinity, and the
greatest man in the Church on the Western Continent. He said to me,
“Do you hold circles now?” I said, “No, I have not done so for
some time.” The fact was I had been badgered out of my right
and my privilege for the time being. He said solemnly to me, “ You
must have seances ; this is the way the Almighty has brought you, it
is your way, and you must be faithful in it.” After that I held seances,
and he joined our circle, and often sat with us. I was then put under
an obedience to see and record such manifestations in my own medium-
ship and that of others as I thought were of sufficient importance to be
so recorded.
I submitted this obedience in 1862 to the then highest dignitary in
the Roman Catholic Church in England. It was confirmed, and a priest
was to be set apart to examine my records. This was hindered by the
death of this dignitary, who said to me, “ I could deny my own faith as
readily as I can deny what comes to Spiritualists.”
I have faithfully recorded facts in my own mediumship, and in that
of other mediums, during twenty-two years, and I hold my work, or an
abstract of it, at the service of the holy father, or any Catholic, or other
person who rightly seeks to know what is done and taught by my
Spiritualism. I have had the service of the best mediums in the world,
and under my own prescribed conditions, sanctioned by my guides and
the guides of the other mediums. For twenty-two years we have been
members of the Roman Catholic Church, and for twenty-eight years I
have been a subjected medium for clairvoyance, clairaudience, speaking,
writing, and healing. All this time I have been a student in Spiritualism,
not of promiscuous circles, not of mediums against whom I felt a
protest. It has been given me to discern spirits, to form harmonic
circles, to have seances with most marvellous manifestations, and which
have tended to the improvement of life. I do not wish to see phenomena
unless their tendency is to make men wiser and better. To this end all
my prayers and efforts are consecrated. Labour is prayer, and with
desire and with deed I labour for the redemption of the Church and the
world through Spiritualism.
Mary S. G. "Nichols.
32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s Court, London, S.W.
I Sir,—Miss Kislingbury’s letter last week gave me much pleasure, as
it looked through the physical phenomena as if through a mental
telescope, at the intelligent power acting in an etherealised form,
j thinking, willing, doing—a power affirming it is acting under the direction
of power still higher, and advising the inferior physical framework called
human to yield its trinity of powers, body, soul, and spirit, to that
higher power we call God, with hearty joy.
The kitchen powers of cooks may be of vital importance to those who
live to eat; but to those who eat to live, that they may examine the
| physical and mental of their surroundings, and through them enjoy a
) | foretaste of those engagements it will be their inheritance to enjoy after
) | the close of this preliminary life, the mere phenomena through mediums
( | do not suffice.
(| Physical Spiritualistic phenomena are of essential use to all Spirit-
j | ualists; but the true beneficial use of them to each person is great, just
) | in proportion as they give knowledge to rest on, before we take another
\ | faith journey up toward the uplands of the infinite.
) j To me the chief end of man is to glorify God by our knowledge and
(| actions, and hereafter enjoy Him for ever—work ample for a finite
(| being.
j j The public meeting held last October at Langham Hall, through the
j | “ service of song,” struck the key-note for 1879 to Spiritualists. When
11 we have shown to the various sections of church organisations that
) | their leading tenets are ours, and ours theirs, we shall band them with
(j us in 1880, for the great event in 1881, registered in the inside of the
11 Great Pyramid before the Mosaic and Christian eras had a place in
| history. Band them with us in the meantime, in assailing the armies of
(I non-Godists. J. Enmore Jones.
) | Enmore Park, S.E. —— —
Sir,—I wish I had time to answer—as a Spiritualist—Miss Kisling-
| j bury’s letter. For I think it requires an answer : I think it requires a
) | good deal of answering: I hope that some things in it will be answered.
( For my own part, I should like to tell her at length both how much I
j ] agree with and how much I differ from her; because I think I should
) ] represent some other Spiritualists, and because, as I have said, her
(] letter ought not to pass unnoticed, coming, as it does, from one who has
j been considered as a representative Spiritualist.
11 But I am too busy, just now, studying out some very beautiful
\ I physical laws—made, I doubt not, by One who should receive our
11 worship—to be able to leave my work for more than a brief space. And
I! thus any answer of mine must be indirect and suggestive rather than
(j categorical. But how is a simple Spiritualist to answer some of the
) I questions that Miss Kislingbury puts, and some of the statements she
11 makes, without awakening the odium theologicum, without hurting the
| j feelings of those whose most cherished convictions are based upon
) | feeling. I will not bring in here other creedists, considering Spiritualism
( | from their point of view; this might give offence, because all creedists
| | naturally consider their creed to be immensely better than others. I
5 ! will simply say, meekly but very earnestly, that if Spiritualism—the
11 experimental proof of our immortality, and of the probability of holding
i! intercourse with those who have passed away—if this revelation, which
) i has come to us without any regard for human weakness or respect for
j | human authority, be a fact, if it be true, then to “ cast it out and tread
( i it under foot,” is to ensure our own condemnation. For, as Carlyle
j I says, “A fact is a divine revelation; and he who acts contrary to it sins
( i against God.” And this is the case whatever may be, or seem to be,
) j “ the teachings ” of a fact, the consequences of a truth; whether it
! confirm, or whether it render ridiculous, the dogmas and traditions to
1 j ( which the human mind tends to cling.
j j To my mind one of the greatest missions of Spiritualism, accom-
!) ] plished in some measure by every truth discovered, is to relieve
j j | humanity from the frightful nightmares which have oppressed it, and
j) j under the influence of which it became mentally and therefore morally
I) | degraded, and soiled with all the crimes which have been perpetrated
\ | in the name of religion. One of these nightmares, in my opinion, is
j ! the idea that almost everything in us and about us is “ Satanic,” that
| | “the world” is Satanic, that “the flesh” is Satanic. But what I
( | regard as a mediseval superstition, Miss Kislingbury evidently now con-
j aiders to be a very hallowed religious tenet. In the mere matter of this
j | difference I should endeavour to respect her conscientious belief, and I
: should claim the same respect for mine. But I think we both are
] Spiritualists as well as truth-seekers; and what light does Spiritualism
| | throw upon the question at issue between us ? Does it give any sup-
j | port to the “ Satanic ” theory ? Does it show us our friends who never
j I “overcame the world and the flesh,” nor dreamed of doing so, worse
) i off than the monk and the recluse who did ? Does it not rather,
i whilst showing us this world as a sphere for useful work, as something
j j to be improved by our earnest unselfish endeavour, and our body as a
j : very beautiful piece of work, to be neither despised nor degraded, tell
| ! us, with Theodore Parker, that “ The popular theology of Christendom,
| | one of the many errors which man has cast out of him, has much to
| | answer for ? It debases God, and it degrades man. It makes us think
{ | meanly of ourselves, and dreadfully of our Creator.” And if so, if
) j it does not endorse certain vagaries of faith, is it on this account “ a
11 thing to be cast out and trodden under foot ? ”
| | Ldborare est orare! A friend whom we call “ Marquis,” who has
) i communicated with us from “ the other side ” for several years past,
l | said to us on Christmas Day:—
j j “ You will be surprised to hear I have progressed. I am in the
) i fourth sphere—fifth circle. Work, work, work has pulled me up ! ”
| i Another extract from the last entry in our Notes of Seances. Of
| | great significance to us, perhaps it may be so to some others. (Sitters,
11 my mother, my wife, and myself.)
\\ “ Q. Dear W , what has kept you away from me ?
| i “A. Past life. Passed higher now. Shall not affect medium. Shall
i 1 always come—one of the band.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
11
Jan. 3,1879.
F Q. Tell us what kept you hack.
(l A. My wasted life! .... We find these things out when we come
here. .... Your medium did suffer when I came before I am
now in the third sphere—sixth circle!'
On this occasion the influence on the medium was rather pleasant
than otherwise; on previous occasions its effect was to make her very
ill. But what I wish to mention is that the control, a relative, had led
a very retired, secluded life—one of devotion to a sister and her child;
but he had evidently not cultivated sufficiently those faculties and those
energies, those opportunities for doing good work, which it is one of the
objects of this life to develop.
There is an unwholesome ferment of the mind—utilised in all ages
by priestcraft—in which its tendency is to set up idols and to offer
sacrifices rather than to do steady, telling work—generally without any
excitement in it—with the trustful, smiling confidence in God’s goodness,
for which the “little child” is our exemplar. In this condition the
notion of having a soul “ to save ” from some horrible doom is a great
resource. “ Nothing,” says Isaac Taylor, “ is more dangerous than to
indulge notions which tend to make us think our tastes and principles
more refined and elevated than those of the Creator and Ruler of the
universe. Something of this infatuation very commonly besets ardent
and abstracted minds.”
Let us not call Spiritualism “ a religion.” Surely it is something
better than this reference to “modes of faith” would imply. It is
something which underlies all religions, and constitutes their life when
they are not dead. Neither let us call it “ the religion ”—that which
alone can make man “ one with the Father.” It is something less than
that! Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald.
6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
Sib,—It may he quite true that testimony of our common human
senses is not reliable; but if so, what evidence have we concerning any¬
thing material whatever ? What do we know, what can we know, of
externals, if our five senses are not correct reporters ?
We meet an old friend, a father, a mother, brother, or sister.
Trusting our senses, we recognise and treat them as such, and take for
granted their identity. That sometimes we are mistaken we all know;
but this means that we are not mistaken as a rule, though we have
only our senses to guide us. Both the friends who meet being sentient,
it would seem as if we cannot be mistaken, unless we be so in regard to
all physical phenomena.
We place a vessel of water over a jet of burning gas. The water
boils, and we infer that the heat of the gas causes the ebullition. No
one doubts that such is the case, though nobody can prove the proposition
if human senses are not proper witnesses.
We attend a spiritual seance. A table moves, though no one touches
it; “ raps ” are heard upon it, under the same conditions as to contact.
Intelligent communications are given through the same channel; the
“ raps ” or “ tips ” being, therefore, the means used by the occult
power which produces these signs, or that the signs are, at least, con¬
current phenomena.
We often find that the communications thus obtained contain state¬
ments of facts that none present know anything about, or were other¬
wise familiar to persons present; and we Very often find such statements
to be entirely correct.
We ask whence such mysterious phenomena are derived, and invari¬
ably (if the inquiry be in a sincere spirit) receive the reply that they are
simply the work of spirits of human beings who once lived upon earth,
and generally of those whom some of the inquirers present very well
knew. The said inquirers sometimes recognise the apparent identity of
the communicants as displayed in their manners, sentiments, and modes
of speech.
Having been educated in the superstitions of those Christian churches
which assume and teach that no departed spirits have returned to this
earth since about 30 a.d., most of us find much difficulty in realising
that the above solution can be the real, the correct one, so cheated have •
we been “ out of our sensesin fact, out of our capacity for properly
appreciating phenomena which, above all others, are of the most impor¬
tance to the welfare and happiness of mortals.
We, however, persevere in these investigations. Our own best faculties
are exercised and thereby strengthened in the pursuit, while at the same
time the conditions for further development improve; we at last pass
quite through “shadow land,” and aim at a stage of progress which
enables these same spirits who could once “rap,” or “ tip,” or speak,
or write, to appear inproprid persona, just as they were in life—“ like
men (and women) walking.” We recognise, through our ordinary
senses, many of our departed friends and relatives, and have the hap¬
piness of finding not a hair of their head scorched even. Seeing them
is a crime which would set Smithfield in a blaze again if the torch—
that most important argument of superstition—were still available.
Now, if the evidence of our senses is not to be trusted concerning
these materialisations of spirits—for such these intelligences invariably
declare themselves to be—what evidence have we to offer in proof of
the reality of anything whatever concerning what we, nevertheless, most
confidently designate as human experience ?
The charter of professional Christianity rests upon the assurance that
no further demonstrations of the spiritual world are now possible; that,
therefore, there can be no other rule of life, or theory of a future world,
than was revealed in the Christian era. This is a kind of claim that is
common to most existing forms of faith. It is made, no doubt, with a
degree of sincerity which is common to all of them, each being the
dupe of its own educational system, a system which invades the nursery
and dementalises the infant in its cradle. The monster that Hercules
slew in his cradle was a guardian angel as compared with that which
teaches that a few only of our race can escape a “ hell ” to which nearly
all are doomed, our families and friends included, of course; and yet
I the few escaping righteous are sufficiently depraved to suppose they can
I be happy under such circumstances !
Competing railways are sometimes pretty bitter; but it is not until
we see intelligent and sincere men declaring that all roads to heaven
but their own will surely land their passengers in eternal torments, that
i we have discovered the bitterness of ticket vendors, or the folly, and
I darkness, and malice of stockholders and governing councils, or the
extravagance of that quackery which is so much despised by most
intelligent persons, yet which declares on each of its own gallipots
(spiritual) that all others are base imitations, and sure to “ damn” the
patient they pretend to cure and save. Joseph P. Hazard,
I London. (Of Rhode Island, U.S.A.).
j) | Sir,—I cannot bear to see so decided an attack on Spiritualism as
I (I one of your correspondents printed last week, without venturing to
i j I combat it. I have come to my present frame of mind about Spirit-
| ualism not from any sudden or hasty change of opinion, but my now
I ( decided convictions are the result of long years of thought, inquiry,
) reading, and observation, here and elsewhere. Those convictions are
| that progress, mental and other, is the grand road to the Almighty, and
that we must all go on learning from the greatest to the least—humbly,
) reverently, and patiently ; and that Spiritualism is at present the
( greatest spiritual power we now have to wean us from the dry bones
i of the past and set us on our way to the great future. I abhor dog-
) matising, even on feelings, so will just say that it is because I feel that
( there are so many weak souls “ tossed about by every wind of doctrine,”
j and so imbued with that vague but terrible fear of Satanic agency rather
) than of reliance and faith in the power and love of God, that I enter
( a protest in the attempt to help to cheer and encourage doubting souls,
j That dread of Satanic agency ought to be publicly sifted. There are
/ a few verses in the Bible which are quoted, I believe, in support of this
( doctrine, but they entirely fail to convince critical and spiritual people,
) for to believe so strongly in the devil is to my mind to disbelieve
j strongly in God, whose Name we say and write so glibly, but in whom
( we trust and believe so wofully little.
We are of the earth, earthy, and we must have Spiritualism. M.
Sir,—Would to heaven that such a Catholic council as you suggest
might assemble to seek religion, not discuss theology ; but the cup and
i ) the platter are still all-important in the eyes of the priesthood, hence
j the course of their communion were the reverent leaders forcibly
collected would not run smooth, and the end might probably be pieces
! /1 rather than peace.
J (I We must wait, I fear, until the angel “ Fortuitous Concurrence,”
11 who brings together in due order the inanimate atoms of the dust,
! I performs the like service for the animate and conscious atoms of it;
{j but the dust atoms have, it would seem, no chairman of their own ;
j i their government is apparently quite external and arbitrary. If that
11 be also finally the case with the man atoms, I, their proposed chairman,
(| should be thankful.
11 But if imperious “ Fortuitous Concurrence ” pinned me to this pre-
| j siding as she pinned Cromwell to his, my first act would be to kick
(! out Mr. Bradlaugh, and politely to hand out Messrs. Huxley and
) i Tyndall, in a manner benevolent if “ bigoted,” for even subdued light
(j is unpleasant to bouncing bat and sapient owl—and then with closed
! doors await Pentecost.
11 Yet after all, supposing the Master whose teachings have been
( brought to us from far India by tender mother “ Fortuitous Con-
) | currence,” should be seen by the council as the Light of the World,
(I the divinest conceivable revelation of the Heaven Father to the earth
11 children, Immanuel to throbbing brains and weary hearts for whom
) this universe is one mighty manifestation of God Life, but who, in
l seeing Him see the Father, and are at rest. Is this unlikely ? All is
) Divine that is in Thee, if Thou art not all the Divine.
| In our most dull-eyed moments, when stars are stars, not eyes of
( heaven ; when the wind is not His angel, and the fire is not His
j minister, and the clouds are not His chariots, oh! human-hearted
| Jesus, Thou art the * Word made flesh ! “ Who is the God to whom
< we shall offer our worship ? ”—I am, yours ever faithfully,
No Matter Who.
j Sir,—The note which has sounded in a letter signed “Emily Kis-
( lingbury ” in your last issue will, I hope, recall Spiritualists who have
j the cause at heart to some of the real objects for which the elder
) students of the science have contested for so many years. Permit me,
| i then, as one whose first note-books on the subject date from 1853, at a
| time when many of the present advocates had as yet not devoted
| I i attention to the subject, to attempt to check in some way the career of
j an investigation in which I have always felt much interest, in the hope
| )! that more powerful arms than my own may succeed in arresting it in
i j | what I must deem to be a downward tendency.
j Before that “Niagara is shot” which each individual scientific
i j I inquirer must traverse for himself, it behoves us to ascertain whether
j | ] much of the current literary and oral teaching of Spiritualism is conso-
! | j nant with the modes of investigation practised by the earlier inquirers,
i j I and whether the course which has been indicated by some is that
! ( | which in the history of other sciences has been attended with success.
! I | Spiritualism as a religion has been much praised, and I would in these
I) i days, when nearly every school of thought claims a right, and threatens
I ( ! a power to enforce its doctrines upon the minority, inquire what are its
| j | qualifications to be placed on the same pedestal with the most peculiar
I ( I or smallest sect registered by law. If we seek among the ranks of
j j j * The roaring loom of time which weaves for God the garment we see Him by. Let
] ( j mental culture go on advancing; let science go on gaining depth and breadth, and the
j j human intellect expand as it may, it will never go beyond the elevation and moral culture
of Christianity as it shines forth in the gospels.—Croeffte.
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 3, 1879.
Spiritualists, even among those men whose sincerity of purpose, holi- J (j
ness, and ardour of conviction have made them justly respected leaders, j j!
we fail to perceive any unity of belief. 151
One Spiritualist believes in the immortality of the soul; another I j j
denies it. ]||
One considers the resurrection of the body to be an essential article |) j
of the faith he possesses; another strongly dissents from this belief. j (j
One considers the fact of the return to earth of the souls or spirits of m
the departed at a seance, or otherwise, to be an essential article of the j) j
Spiritualist belief. Another person, not less loyal in conviction to the i (j
cause of what he deems to be genuine Spiritualism, finds no pressing i )!
necessity to declare that he possesses a soul during life, and refrains in
from threatening his neighbour with its post mortem appearance.
One Spiritualist considers that the revelation given in the various I) j
sacred books, commonly accepted by many persons in the Christian, | (j
Jewish, Mohammedan, Buddhist, and other religions, was, prior to the i (|
advent of the Rochester rappings, all-sufficient to satisfy the intellectual j 5 j
and moral needs of any person whose soul was diseased, and who | j
aspired towards a higher life. Others pity the ignorance of the bygone I! i
ages, at the time when the G-reek grammar was taught in elementary • m
schools to the living, and the dead were prayed for in their quiet graves, j j j
Such are pleased with a new revelation, whose claims to genuineness j j ]
rest on the ignoral of the hopes of all those persons who, up to thirty j j
years ago, had fulfilled their life career. f||
One person is perfectly convinced of the genuineness of the phenomena i j j
presented through this or that physical medium, and often carries his j ) \
belief to the excess of expressing faith in the accuracy of the statements j j j!
which this medium asserts in or out of the trance condition, and ] | ji
obedience to the advice of the assumed <c control.’’ His opponent selects 11 j
this especial medium as a “ dreadful example ” of imposture, and, as in Hi
a recent case, is too ready to condemn him on the flimsiest of evidence, j | j
and after the most slipshod investigation. j | j
The Continental medium who is inspired by the teachings of Allan j 11
Kardec is fervent in asserting the doctrines of reincarnation, and the j j j
ghosts which appear through his mediumship, out of deference to the i (j
habitual thoughts of the circle, terminate their addresses by a vehement j j |
Pries pour nous. The Teutonic spirit, however, passes over the rein- j j j
carnationist theory with a contemptuous sneer, and although his ! j ]
customer has no objection to pay five shillings for the privilege of an I j j
interview with the soul of one of his departed relatives, he has every j) j
objection to be so entirely out of the track of nineteenth century progress, j (
as to utter a prayer for the eternal rest of what he conceives to be a i j
departed soul. | j
One school of observers is vehement in favour of certain methods of j (j
test, which are satisfactory to themselves. Rope, cord, broad and I) I
narrow, red and white tape have all been supported by successive 111
generations of inquirers. I have often been struck with the sceptic, j \
who at an inquirer’s seance is willing that some method of securing the j | j
medium should be practised which is quite satisfactory to himself, and | ( j
quite within the scope of the experiments which an impromptu pro- j j |
vision against imposture might suggest. Yet such a test in the eyes of j
those who have watched the methods by which deceitful mediums I (!
might cheat, and are said to have cheated, is perfectly valueless, and j j |
though it serves to satisfy the scruples of the ignorant sceptic, it is j |
nugatory in view of the more experienced tester. j j j
But the greatest difficulty in defining what collective objects may be ] 11
existing in the aims of all the modern Spiritualists is the introduction j) j
of an element which, without offence, may be termed the bourgeois | (|
train of thought. It has often been a subject of temporary surprise and j j
permanent grief to me to hear Spiritualists on numerous public and j)
private occasions boldly decide offhand on subjects of science, theology, ! j J
and philosophy with perfect readiness, and with that aplomb which 11!
might lead the inquirer to fancy that their authoritative decisions were j j ]
the outcome of years of thought, accumulation of evidence, or vast i (j
erudition. The prevalence of this laxity of education, and consequent j j I
laxity of thought, has tended in many cases to an undercurrent being j j |
developed of theories which, being held by Spiritualists, are often j j j
identifiable with the unwritten creed of the science. We have j | j
only to look at the advertisement columns of some of the Trans- j (j
atlantic newspapers to understand exactly what I mean. The jjj
subjects of the engineer, the telegraphist, or the geologist are not mixed i j
up with the exmice which often cover Spiritualism, but there appears to j I
be some inscrutable law by which the enemy is permitted to shoot all i 11
his rubbish on the Spiritualist side of the hedge. Mr. D. Gr. Fitz-Gerald j I j
has in a recent letter referred to this flaw, and it is melancholy I!!
that Spiritualism should continually, either through wilful malice or 11 j
carelessness, be exposed to difficulties which would crush the upward ! |;
progress of any other science with the outside world. The bourgeois I (j
(shall I not rather call it the Spicier?) element, is naturally prone to seek | !
for wonders, and the success of the Research Committee’s experiments, j I!
and of the fortnightly discussion meetings, have been attained in spite - j | j
of it. The instant the dry light of experiment and the fierce flame of I !
discussion has been let in on the subject, it is remarkable how clear j ]
the atmosphere has become, and how few the cases of fraud which are i |
at present known to us. Personally, though I am aware that my opinions j j
are not those of the majority, I think that cases of fraud have never I I
been very prevalent; at least, that they have been confined to other j j j
bathymetrical levels than those I know. I carefully guard myself against j i
advocating any of the above theories, as, for the sake of my present ; I
argument, I merely wish to show their .diversity. Some must be i |
wrong. i \ \
I, therefore, have to repeat what I said at the time of the National I (I
Conference of Spiritualists (The Spiritualist, Feb. 23, 1877), that I j VI
“ thought that Spiritualism had little influence on our ideas about a j) |
future life or theological dogma. To him it offered a number of j ( j
physical facts, perfectly true, in which he did not see any moral bear- j j j
ing whatever.” Those persons who have not definitely made up their j (j
minds as to any given point of theology, and who require the sound of a
rap, or the flourish of the drapeau blanc of “ materialised ” grenadine
to convince them of the immortality of the human soul, will of course
seek in the evidence for such as will satisfy them. But it may be a
question whether a belief which is entirely built up on d posteriori evi¬
dence will be deep, permanent, or valuable. It must also be remem¬
bered that a belief in the perfect accuracy of many Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena is with many scientific minds compatible with a denial of all
soul, spirit, or future life.
If I have in any way led others to consider the fact that Spiritualists
have no common creed which any one could propose with the chance of
acceptation by all, or without the certainty of the exclusion of a power¬
ful minority, and consequently no “ note of unity,” I have disposed of
the claims of a nebulous, though luminous body to be the illuminator
of others unto truth, or, in other words, to be “ a new religion.”
G. Carter Blake.
SONDAT SPIRITUALISTIC SERVICES.
“ He sends teachers unto every age;
To every clime and every race of men.”
Sir,—It is with no little timidity that I venture to call your attention
to the series of meetings I am now inaugurating, knowing how many
there are in the ranks of Spiritualism better able to do justice to the
subject aud carry on the wbrk. But London is too large and the
Spiritualists too numerous to have such a dearth of places where the
gospel of our instructive religion is dispensed. I believe the duty of
the hour is the mission of a life, grasping in essence the undeveloped
possibilities of an untraced future j and its faithful performance, seed
sown for an infinite harvest. Science is a power, religion a precept,
Atheism a circle, in the centre of which Spiritualism exists and plays
an important part in developing the intrinsic worth of its surroundings.
Born of God, in harmony with science, an epitome of wuse truths,
boundless in its capacity for good, it can truly be called the soul of
science and the intellect of religion. The present is, I opine, an
important epoch in the world’s history; mind is ceasing to toy with
matter, and is evidencing in many ways its real supremacy, and the
duty of the hour is to develop to its fullest capacity the “one talent
God has intrusted to His people.” To this end I invite all friends of
the cause to assist with their presence and experience in making these
meetings of service to mankind and value to the cause. I present this
with no flourish of trumpets, with no appeal for money, with only a
desire to serve those who cannot pay for a private interview, and those
who desire to have a platform from which something can be heard con¬
cerning the religion of Spiritualism. My altar is Truth ; my creed the
highest law God has revealed unto my soul; and giving as I do the
week to professional labour, feel that one day in seven I can best serve
God by freely dispensing the gospel of Spiritualism to His people.
J. William Fletcher.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL ”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London. 
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of pnenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Jan. 3, 1879
THE SPIRITUALIST
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Orookos, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.”, It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor Oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ”, was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ IL „ .
The Seer. „ III. ,,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. „ V. „ . - .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi A. J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
•hildren’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained ,
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims , .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . .
Morning Lectures . . . . •
s. d.
0
6
6
6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds .... . . . 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my .Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confticius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . - . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
K'lanation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Ofifice, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authop JlNd Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Orookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature."—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’’—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Heme—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—^Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opimons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductprs.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
camagejpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ on
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works hearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of hearing.—Evidenee of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H. Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From, the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E\ idence of Hon. R.Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Thnayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Hi From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—^Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances imder which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, "W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post iree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of me
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
HI.—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VUI.—The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life oj Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals.
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Yon Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady oi Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism, By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIH.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“M.A, Os.on.”
XXX V.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harris on.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calderj
Xli.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
xLlV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London,W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
TVTEmmismp: its nature and
avjL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.: post free for lid.; or six copies post free
forGd.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
Jan. 3, 1879,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. 4, January. Price1 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion ? By Epes Sargent,.
II.—Sister Celeste, By J. C, Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Belation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V. —Keminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nos worthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price 0d.; post free, 7|d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
IN thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other 'noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not), they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
8. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage n
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, ‘1 If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? " Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give wayt o an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more aboutt hem or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two stances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings,
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—1. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji AI Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. WSrbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joel”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Maee-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobbly'aw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post,
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who,like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years....
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads“ No' one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’*
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
JEtussell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji Al Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt:... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays.
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [A.S. An
irate member qf the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and, Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
I “ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
) did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.
Obtainable, price 7s. 8d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late "Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 8d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleepwalkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—^Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Bash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ing-Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted-Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—CoL Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraif, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions —Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrait—The Magic Crystal, ana Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to he Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER Xlll:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed, tor the Proprietor by Beveridgb & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Londc c, E.C.
