BseiSTEJJED AS A NtwsrArtK,
^^YdSo^oc^icia^ ^CislKci^.
f/^ m*t gMispap^, toiflj Spintealbrn m feat §ntam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 321. (Vol. XIII.—No. 16.) LONDON: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Power Taken to Work Secretly in Spiritualism 181
The Death and Funeral of the Late Mr. George Thompson 182
The Williams-Rita Case    182
Mrs. Weldon and the Lunacy Laws 188
Belief in Spirits in India  188
The Antipathies of Materialism. By J T. Markley, Author
of Stray Thoughts on Many Themes  184
The Queen and Spiritualism  186
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting
of the Council      .i 186
Spiritualism in the Midland Counties  186
A Trance-Speaking Farmer 187
Extracts from the Revue Syirite... \  ... 187
Correspondence,':—What Truth is there in Homoeopathy?
—Artificial Memory—What Good has Spiritualism
done ?—Simulation—A Seance with Miss Wood—
Alleged Astrological Influence of Eclipses—Mr. Eg-
linton in South Africa—Facts and Inferences  188
The Career of Mr. George Thompson:—“Thompson, the
Abolitionist" ...   190
Memories (Poetry)  ... ...  191
Homoeopathy and Spiritualism 192
Subjective or Objective ?...    ... ... ... 192
Answers to Correspondents     ... 192
Paragraphs :—Mesmerism, 181; The Winter Spiritualistic
Meetings, 183; Psychography, 183; The Spirit-
World, 183 ; Spiritualism in the Midland Counties ... 190
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics q/
Spiritualism,
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred K.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess or
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrisier-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the " Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Banister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd-;
in the United States and Australia, I3s„ post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Malionaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR OCTOBER.
Friday, 4th.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 8f/i.—Special Council Meeting, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Ordinary Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, ilth.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ iith.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m
Wednesday, 28?’d.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m. •
„ Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 26th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
,, „ Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are- entitled to the use of hooks on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., *c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MR. and MISS DIETZ, having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“ One of
the most successful series ever known in London"), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—Ooal-
brookdale, October 29; Glasgow (City Hall), November 2;
Deal, November 19; Maidstone. November 20; Perry Barr,
December 3; New Swindon, January 8, 1879. Favourable
terms arranged with Institutes or with Progressive Societies,
en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,’’ illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY.
October.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Why must I do what Is right ? By St. George Stock.
II.—Astrology, Ancient and Modem.
III.—Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
IV.—Immaterialism at Brussels. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. HI.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bbbme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supematuralism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price 6d.; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the Gold and Silver Prize Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
IMPOSSIBILITIES MADE PROBABLE.
Consisting of three propositions, viz.:—1. Vitality makes
Matter. 2. Soul is Omnipotent. 3. A Persistent Life Natural
to Man. By J. M. London: Charles Watts, 84, Fleet-street,
E.C. Price 6d.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, I franc. Published by the SoHiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIER. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
ANTED, by a SPIRITUALIST, a situa-
tion as Collector or Timekeeper ; would take care of
offices. 25 years’ character, and good references. Address:
J. Cain, 8, Bloorofield-road, Burdett-road, Bow, E.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
Is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold Investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Offiee-eourt, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the test quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. «. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—8, LudgateCircus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fec.
post free, seven stamps.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal oj Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blachburn. Charles, "Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas, TJnner Norwood.
Eitz-Ceral'1, Mrs . 19, Cambrida-e-street, Hvde-park. W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G-, M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Creyory, Mrs. MaTcdoneall.21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
ITonvwood Mrs.. .‘52, W’anvick-sqnare, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmlth-bnild-
ings E.O.
Massey, C. G, Barrister-at-Law, Ha-rcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.G.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa. Chorch-eud. Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Temnleman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M:.D.,12, Great.Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead. W P., Derby House. Belner.
Rarka», T. P.. Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Lannley House. Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beehy, Vrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Blnney, F A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick. .T.. F.R G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead. ■
Ghanman, ,Tohn. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W H., 94, Cornwall-gardens. Oueen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S E.
D»we, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. .T, T., Lvnwiiod, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7. Oherstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59. Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C , Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fftz Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. fi. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinninsr, A.. The Drive, Enmore-park, S E
Dreen, G F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38. Great Russell-street.
Havle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, De'amere-crescent, Westhonrne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt. Miss Hannah. 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
T«ham, Sir Charles. Barr, Lamnort-hnll, Northampton.
•Toad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M l C E . Junior Hnited Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred F., s, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe. Mrs., 34. Berners-street, W.
Malthy, Mrs., 61, Go'ver-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. 14. Wiiton-road, Dalstou.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road, Dalston.
’'"'orse, J J , F'in Trei'-terrace, TTttoxet0r-road. Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stsmton, M.A., TTniversity College, N.W.
Noswnrthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newhould. Rev. W. W.. 118, Aibanv-strcet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton. W . n. Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearre, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston. E.
Pearson, C.. 13. Harper-street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Piekersgill.W. C., 3, Blnndford-square, N.W.
Relmcrs.' Christian, 6. Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Strawlu-idge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W
pt’-owbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
,stock, St. Georo-e, M.A., 8. Mnseum-vPlas Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62. Granville-park, Blackhe.ath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granvllle-park, Blackbeath, S.E.
Trcdwen. R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
mumer. J. P , Avenne-road, Leamington.
AYalbouse, M. T , 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigb. 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
Y’hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
AViison, d. H., AT. A., LL.M., care of A. Caider, Esq,, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withal’, Miss H., l. The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, SW.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, 3t. John’s-road, Brixton, SW.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, SW.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq, G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobltz, bel Potsehach, Styrla,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gu’denstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinek-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein,
fcf. Gustave de Veb, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York. U.S. A.
Miss AnnaBlackwell. LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo PearychandMittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Atolst.ra.at, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 43, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmllian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr, Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
At. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq , M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., At D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pris Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., At.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Key. Samuel Watsoni Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Afontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palms 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloueester-place, Dorset-square,
Lonoon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. At. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Haet, 173, Rue .St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epc-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Airs. Halloek, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Halloek, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples. 3
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Atodling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
At. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—Al. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, SW.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secrer-
tary, T.Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-Iane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola.. Cervantes 34, 28, ATadrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Afexico.
Sociedad Espirifa di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establish iaents, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Oloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
"Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A oompahion hook to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.’,
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—XL The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
,VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child,—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Alv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. Cd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office..
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Bich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
"DRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
JLP tained in Brighton of Messrs. B al. East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
Oct. 18, 1878.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM: AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBUEY PLACE, BLOOMSBUEY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NOBTHUMBEBLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
Mr, j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terraee, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Bue St. Honord,
Paris.
Ip W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
y # engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land.N,
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
e is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London Or the' Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience,'if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-s’treet,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.m ,
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
The celebrated vocalist and
ORATOR, MBS. M. G. PAEKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—Sea press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Clairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Boss,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CCURATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR-
J VOYANCE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may be consulted at his residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
Consultations by letter.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-plaee, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
'VIOTICE.—M. FOX KANE receives friends
JLi at 14, Southampton-row, London, Mondays, Wednes¬
days, and Fridays, from 2 to 5p.m. A circle on reduced terms
on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, from 8 to 10.,
7&/TR. AND MRS. REGAN are in Paris, and
1VJL will be pleased to receive their Spiritualist friends
during the present month and early part of November, or
longer, at their suite of rooms, Hotel d’Astorg, 1, Bue d’Astorg,
near Madeleine, and Elysde.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
JLjl- ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete.
Published on the 15 th of every month, at Turin, Tip,
Baglione, vifi. Boglno, No. 23.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOB THE BEREAVED FROM CUB LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10sr dd. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
l\fo. 321.—Volujvie Thirteen; Number $ixteeji.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18th, 1878.
POWER TAKEN TO WORK SECRETLY IN SPIRITUALISM, j j
Within the past six weeks the Council of the National | I
Association of Spiritualists has taken power to do secret i j!
work on its committees, and to shut out the members of the | j j
Association from knowledge thereof, supposing it should j. |
choose, to do so. ... . | j '
There was some years ago much opposition at public meet- ! j
ings to the formation of the Association, on the ground that [Ml
powerful organisations in various narrow theological bodies j j
had limited the liberties of the public, and had been known j: j
to exercise tyranny in individual cases. j j [
For this reason several ardent Spiritualists, like Mr. j
Oxley, were a long time before they would join the Associa- | |
tion at all, and were at last only induced to do so because j I
it exhibited no disposition to trespass upon the rights of the j |
general public. j ( j
But this is the case no longer, for without consulting its j | |
constituents it has taken the power to hide work done on its j >
committees, by not reporting it to the Council, and it has j j
passed a vote of censure on anybody who publishes proceed- |
ings of Committees not so reported. j j
Thus a chief answer to the public objection of u the j
tyranny of organisations,” namely, that the British National j j
Association of Spiritualists would not do its work in private, j
but open to the inspection of the public, is no longer valid. j j
If a member of the National Association now says to the j j j
secretary, “ I wish to see the unreported proceedings of such- j j j
and-such a committee,” the secretary is ordered to refuse to | \ j
show the minutes, but to tell the member he must apply to j j
the Council. j I
The member will probably reply—^ What! Do my j j
stewards, whom I have appointed, refuse to let me see the j |
books in which they enter my own affairs ? I will not apply j i
to them, for such application would imply that I recognise j j
that they have a right to refuse to show me how they are j j
transacting my own business.” The complainant may then j I
add—111 will get some member on the Council to copy the
unreported minutes of committees and publish them.” But j
this has been guarded against by a standing vote of censure j
against anybody who does so (see appended resolution No. S
3), stigmatising such action as a ((breach of privilege.” i
The steps by which this position has been brought about ] j
will be seen on reference to the proceedings at the two last j
Council meetings :— j
At the Council meeting on the 10th September last, Mr. Alexander I j
Calder, president, occupied the chair. The other members present j (
were Mr. Morell Theobald, Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. R. A. ||
March, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Cornelius Pearson, Herr Christian < j
Reimers, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Miss Houghton, Mr. E. f
T. Bennett, Mr. A. Joy, and Mr. Harrison. ) j
Mr. Joy proposed, Mr. Theobald seconded, and Mr. Rogers ( i
supported— j |
1. That it is inexpedient that the proceedings of committees appointed by ' ( i
the Council ho open for the inspection of any person not a member of the j j
Council. [Mr. Joy subsequently added] “Except by permission of the ! ) I
Council.” j ( j
Mr. Harrison moved an amendment— i ( |
2. That it is expedient that the proceedings of committees appointed by the ; j
Council be open to the inspection of all members of the Association. / I
This was not seconded, and the original resolution was carried, with ) i
nobody but Mr. Harrison voting for the amendment. ( j
Mr. E. T. Bennett moved— s j
3. That it be considered a breach of privilege on the part of any member of j ( j
the Association to make public comments and criticisms on the proceedings of I S j
its committees, and on the action of individual members on those com- j ) |
mittees, except as they are brought before the Council by their own reports or j ) i
otherwise. 1 ( |
This was seconded by Miss Houghton, and supported by Mr. Theobald ) i
and Mr. March. j j i
Mr. Harrison moved an amendment— j j
4. That this Council, being responsible to its constituents for the trans- ( i
actions of its committees, repudiates all attempts to cut off any of the ! j |
proceedings from its o^yn knowledge by allowing committees to withhold any i j j
of their business, and recognises the established principle in public life that
the full publishing of proceedings, and the avoidance of secrecy, are necessary
in all bodies which claim the support of intelligent members.
He said that he moved this amendment partly because committees
had entered official business on their minutes which they had not
brought before the Council. In short, he wanted the broad light of day
to fall upon all business transacted, and considered that any secrecy
about work done would sacrifice the rights of private members, would
aggrandise power into the hands of the Council, and would be a just
argument against having an organisation in Spiritualism.
The amendment was not seconded, and the original resolution was
carried, with nobody but Mr. Harrison voting against it.
At a subsequent meeting of the Council held on Tuesday,
last week, voting on the subject was resumed, and various
attempts to secure publicity were overthrown, as reported on
page 186 of this number of TAe Spiritualist.
Mr. Calder, the President, scarcely ever votes at Council
meetings, so his opinions cannot be gathered from the reports.
In reference to the above proceedings Mr. Harrison says to
his constituents:—
u 1. I have represented your interests to the best of my
ability, but if you, like the Council, think I have done wrong,
please write to me to that effect, and I will willingly and
respectfully bow to your decision and that of the Council,
and send in my resignation.
“ 2. But if I have acted rightly, the ‘position’ is that the
Council refuses to hear you; it has rejected my several
protests and suppressed the final notice of motion I gave
in on your behalf; I can therefore do no more, and it is
for you to decide what course you will take.
“ In any case, I am tired of standing up for the public
rights all alone, with not a single supporter or sympathiser
present. I therefore hope that you will select somebody
else to carry through for you the principle of “ the aboli¬
tion of power to do secret work in any Spiritualist organisa¬
tion.” I think Mr. C. C. Massey, of the Temple, one of
the best representatives to invite to carry on this work with
efficiency, supposing that he be found to approve the
principles at stake. What his opinions are I do not know,
but as I have done my share in the face of great discour¬
agement, I wish to retire from further action in this
matter.
“ How far in the direction of secret work Mr. Bennett
thinks that a public organisation ought to have power to
go, I do not know, but he recently rose and objected to the
minutes of a committee being read to the Council, on the
ground that the minutes might contain something of a
private nature. This is going even farther than keeping
things secret from ordinary members.
“ The claim to the right of secrecy is likely to injuriously
affect the interests of the National Association, so it is an
unfortunate step. I have had no alternative but to oppose it
from a sense of duty, and to publish the public proceedings,
therefore have had no power to do otherwise than I have
done, and have had no power to keep silent.”
•Undjeb the laws of a neighbouring State, a mesmeric physician, or, as
she is more generally called and better known, a “faith” doctor, was
prosecuted for illegally practising medicine ; but the evidence was direct
that she never used medicine, and the laugh comes in on the regulars
who incited the arrest.—Boston Sunday Herald.
Mesmerism.—M. Donato, in The Bevue Beige du Spiritisme, gives
the programme of a proposed general Association of all the principal
mesmeric societies. Several societies have already promised their
alliance. The Bevue Maynetique, of Paris, edited by M. Durville, will
probably be the organ of the Association.
A movement is on foot to present a copy of a standard work on
Spiritualism to leaders in society, and to all the members of the
peerage, because books are not liable to be torn up like newspapers,
but to be placed in the household library. Full particulars, with a
printed list of the names of those already supplied, may be obtained on
application to the Branch Office of The Spiritualist newspaper in
London,
182
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 18, 1878.
THE DEATH AND FUNERAL OF THE LATE MR. GEORGE
THOMPSON.
We regret to have to announce the departure from this
life of Mr. George Thompson, the Anti-Slavery Reformer,
and late M.P. for the Tower Hamlets. He was so firm a
believer in the communion of this world with the world of
spirits that, on each of his last visits to the United States,
he had sittings with nearly all the best mediums; his
daughter, Mrs. Nos worthy, of Liverpool, has a number of
manuscripts by him about these stances, given to her as the
only Spiritualist in his family besides himself. It is fur¬
ther worthy of note that Mr. George Thompson, whose work
extended over three continents; who risked his life and braved
the rancour of American hatred and violence for the sake of
the American slave; who toiled for the oppressed natives of
India; and who worked for the Repeal of the Corn Laws,
made, while very feeble, his last journey by rail to bid farewell
to a medium (Mrs. Tappan), and shrank not from bearing his
testimony publicly to the then most unpopular cause of modern
Spiritualism by taking the chair at Mrs. Tappan’s meetings.
His last appearance in public was when he sat by the side of
Mrs. Tappan and Mrs. Nos worthy on the delivery of her
farewell address at Southport; this was some time after his
appearance at the Town-hall, Leeds, on the Slave Circular
Question, as recorded in the sketch of his life in the Leeds
Mercury. He leaves three daughters, and for more than
twelve months one of them, Mrs. Nosworthy, has been
almost constantly with him ; he missed her so when her
family returned from Leeds to Liverpool that she was
obliged to return to reside with him, in order to prevent
his endangering his life by following her to Liverpool
against the advice of his medical advisers, who said that he
was not strong enough for the journey. Mrs. Nosworthy
says that their common faith in Spiritualism did much to
place them in close sympathy with each other. As his last
hour drew near, and when he was almost unable to articu¬
late, Mrs. Nosworthy sat with him reading from the
literature of Spiritualism such extracts as she deemed most
appropriate; and one of his favourite poems, in which he
used always to join her in the refrain, was Lizzie Hoten’s
“ He giveth His beloved sleep,” pasted by his own hands
into a volume of her poems, inscribed thus in the writing
of the authoress, “ To the Hon. George Thompson, this
humble volume is presented with the best wishes and sincere
regards of Lizzie Hoten. Boston, May 7th, 1867.”
Mrs. Nosworthy and her sister Edith were the only
relatives, save two grandchildren, who attended George
Thompson in his dying illness. They decided not to have
an ostentatious funeral, for their father was, like all great
men, of an unassuming nature, and had asked for the
interment of his remains “ in the most simple manner.”
Hundreds followed his remains to the grave, although not a
soul but his own family had been invited.
The following particulars about the funeral are extracted
from the Leeds Mercury of Oct. 11th last:—
Yesterday forenoon the grave closed over the mortal remains of the
late Mr. George Thompson, a well-known friend of the negro-slave,
and a powerful advocate of civil and religious liberty, who died at his
residence in Francis-street, New Leeds, on Monday evening. It was
the desire of the friends of the deceased that his funeral should be
conducted in as quiet a manner as possible, and in this respect their
wish was fulfilled. The funeral procession, which left the late resid¬
ence of the deceased about eleven o’clock for Burmantofts Cemetery,
consisted of a hearse drawn by two horses, two mourning coaches,
and the private carriages of Mr. Joseph Lupton and Mr. j. Wffles
Smith. In the first of the mourning coaches were Mrs. Nosworthy
(Mr. Thompson’s eldest daughter), Mrs. Chesson (his second daughter),
Miss Edith Thompson (his youngest daughter), Miss Chesson, Mr. F.
H. Thompson, and Mr. R. Nosworthy. In the second coach were Mr.
F. W. Chesson, Mr. F. A. Nosworthy, Dr. Hitchman (Liverpool), Mr.
C. H. Braithwaite, and Mr. Alfred Braithwaite. At the cemetery a
number of gentlemen had gathered, anxious to pay a last tribute of
regard and esteem to the memory of one whom, when living, they had
revered and honoured for his many sterling qualities, and for his
works’ sake. These included Sir Henry M. Havelock, Bart., M.P.,
Mr. J. Barran, M.P., the Rev. E. R. Conder, Mr. Joseph
Lupton, J.P., Mr. J. Croft, J.P., Mr. W. H. Conyers, Coun¬
cillor Lucas, Messrs. Henry Dyson, J. Whitley, John Calder-
wood (Liverpool), J. Wales Smith, John Barran, jun., &o.
Shortly before the mournful procession reached the cemetery a heavy
shower fell, but the rain ceased as the procession entered the gate, and
the funeral service was concluded before there was a repetition of the
heavy rain.—The Rev. Canon Jackson conducted the service, the first
part of which took place in the chapel. After reading the 39th and 90th
Psalms, and the lesson from 1 Cor. xv. 20, &c., the rev. gentleman said
he might be allowed, before they left that place to carry to their last
resting-place the mortal remains of their departed friend, to remind
them that the service of that day had a double aspect. It had one
aspect towards the dead; it had another aspect towards the living.
The aspect towards the dead that day was a very blessed one. His
were very noble gifts consecrated to a very noble end—for the ameliora¬
tion of the sufferings of man; for the freedom of the captive ; for bread
to the hungry. His gifts were nobly consecrated to the highest interests
of man, and thereby to the glory of our God and Father. Let them go
back to the world again, to its cares and to its temptations, more than
ever impressed with this glorious truth, that “ whether we live, we live
unto the Lord ”—and if we lived to the Lord, we should live for our
brethren—“ and whether we die, we die unto the Lord; living or dying,
we are the Lord’s.” The hymn beginning, “Lo! round the throne at
God’s right hand,” was then sung, and the coffin was afterwards carried
to the grave, where the remainder of the service was read by the Rev.
Canon Jackson.
The following letter has been received by Mrs. Nosworthy, the
daughter of Mr. Thompson, from Mrs. Helen P. Bright Clark, daughter
of Mr. John Bright, M.P.:—
“One Ash, Rochdale, October 9th, 1878.
“ My Dear Madam,—My father desires me to express to you some¬
thing of the sad interest and sympathy with which he heard this
morning of the death of his old and much-esteemed friend George
Thompson. He wishes me to Say that as my sister is to be married to¬
morrow, and her intended husband’s family may be here afterwards, he
is not sure whether it will be possible for him to attend the funeral,
which he should very much wish to do; but he would be obliged if
some one would kindly let him know the day, and time, and place. If
he should be prevented from attending you will not think it is from lack
of affectionate respect. He has just gone off with my sister, who is to
be married at Southport, or he would have written himself.
“ May I add how much I unite with him in his regard for your father,
whom I remember very well, and whose earnest and devoted service to
the cause of freedom and justice everywhere I was taught from child¬
hood to reverence.”
THE WILLIAMS-RITA CASE.
An experiment might be tried, the result of which would
have some influence on the public committee now considering
the Williams-Rita case.
Four or five years ago, when cabinet manifestations were
regularly far better tested than they are at present, as proved
by scores of certificates then printed in The Spiritualist, it
was discovered beyond doubt that when the clothes of a
medium were changed in the presence of witnesses, and the
medium afterwards taped and sealed in test cabinets, common
white drapery, or in other words “masquerading gear,” was
brought in from some place unknown to clothe the forms.
We suggest that Mr. Williams and Mr. Rita might each
offer to give a seance to a few persons who bear them no ill-
will, and who, they know, would not treat them unfairly, yet
at the same time whose testimony carries weight with the
public—such witnesses, for instance, as Mr. A. R. Wallace,
Mr. C. C. Massey, Mr. Stainton-Moses, and Mr. Fitz-Gerald.
Let the medium go alone to the house of one of these
Spiritualists, let identifiable white drapery belonging to the
investigators be locked up in a box in the presence of all the
witnesses in one room, then let them sit in the dark in
another room with the medium, and see if the spirits will
bring in the marked drapery from the locked box.
If they do so, the onus will then rest upon the committee
of saying authoritatively, if they can, who put the drapery
where it was found in any particular case, and how far the nor¬
mal consciousness of themedium was concerned in the matter.
What is wanted is that there shall be no imposture in the
matter; that materialised forms or mediums (it is the com¬
mittee’s duty to attempt to decide which in this case), shall
not secretly use masquerading gear to make themselves
resemble individuals they are not.
Tricks and practical jokes are often played by genuine
materialised spirit forms, as all those Spiritualists who have
had most experience with them are fully aware.
We further suggest that our Dutch friends should draw
up and unanimously sign a full report of what took place at
the dark stance immediately before their cabinet seance with
Messrs. Williams and Rita, and send it to the committee.
The report might show whether the mediums were subject
to some greater power than their own on that particular
evening. If so, the committee can then set to work to decide
the question of the amount of individual responsibility of
mediums and spirits throughout the evening.
6ct. is, isrs.
tHE
IBS
MRS. WELDON AND THE LUNACY LAWS.
At Bow-street Police-court on Saturday, Mrs. Weldon, of
Tavistock House, presented to Mr. Flowers the formal information
which he advised her to prepare, setting forth the details of an
attempt made to place her forcibly in a lunatic asylum, in order that
the question of granting summonses against her husband and the
medical gentlemen who signed the order for her incarceration might
he considered.
Mr. Flowers, after perusing the document privately, said that some
of the allegations made therein, if supported by the evidence of
witnesses, would no doubt entitle her to legal redress ; but some of
them appeared to he rather vaguely made, and it might be difficult to
prove them by such evidence as could be received in a court of justice.
It seemed to be conceded that she was for a time locked up in a room,
and that would amount inlaw to an illegal arrest; but the ejaculations
of persons employed in the execution of what was no doubt an un¬
justifiable design upon her liberty could not be regarded as lawful
testimony, unless they could be brought home to the individuals who
actually uttered them. For example, it was not enough to assert
generally that one of the party exclaimed, “ Seize hold of her. It will
be worth £ 1,000 if we get her into an asylum.” At the same time,
the fact of her detention, even for a single hour, was a sufficient
ground for an action at law, and he (Mr. Flowers) felt disposed to
advise her to consult her legal adviser about the matter. The Com¬
missioners of Lunacy had the power to take up the matter if illegal
steps had been taken to place her under restraint, and it might be worth
while to confer with them on the subject.
Mrs. Weldon said that she had already done so, and her application
had been very courteously treated; but she was informed that they
had no power to take up her case unless she had been actually confined
in an asylum by undue means. The fact that the attempt to imprison
her was defeated by her having luckily escaped from her assailants and
taken refuge in the house of a friend, appeared to deprive the Com¬
missioners of the right to interfere.
Mr. Flowers hardly thought that the powers of the Commissioners
were limited in that way. At any rate, she could bring an action for
false imprisonment.
Mrs. Weldon felt that some difficulty would be experienced in that
direction. In the present ^tate of our laws affecting the rights
of women, it was doubtful if a married woman could bring an action
against any one without the privity of her husband; and it could
hardly be supposed that a husband would sanction any legal proceed¬
ings against himself.
Mr. Flowers admitted that a question might arise on this point, but
in the peculiar position in which she was placed in regard to her
husband—a mutual separation having been agreed to between them—
it might turn out that she was entitled to plead. At all events, it
was not in his power to give her any assistance in the form of a
summons or otherwise, upon the facts as alleged before him, in the
absence of verbal proof, and therefore he could only repeat his advice
to her to consult with a solicitor.—The Observer.
BELIEF IN SPIRITS IN INDIA.
In an almost alarmingly instructive yet decidedly interesting paper in
the current number of the Contemporary Review, Professor Monier
Williams treats of the progress of religious thought in India and the
prospects of Christian missions. After passing through many phases,
the religion of the mass of Hindus at the present day is described by
Professor Williams as “ simple demonolatry.” Where European educa¬
tion has really acted upon the native mind, this is, of course, no longer
the case; but the demon-worship is not confined to the lower classes.
It pervades Hindu society. “ From the cradle to the grave ’’ men and
women believe themselves to be pursued and persecuted by malignant
spirits. There is, indeed, a spirit-host of another kind—an army of
benevolent spirits, reinforced by the deaths of righteous men, saints,
and ascetics, and these are perpetually at war with Ganesa and his
demon powers; but the success of good spirits is not sufficient to dissi¬
pate the gloom and the fear which constitute a large proportion of the
religion of India. Every evil that flesh is heir to has its representative
demon, from the drought that destroys a population to the peculiar form
of jungle fever that harasses a village. On the other hand, every
beneficent agency of nature stands for a good spirit. The rain spirit is
in perpetual conflict with the demon of drought, and the angel of light
carries on unending war with the prince of darkness. The vague specu¬
lative pantheism which has a profound attraction for the Hindu mind,
and more or less pervades all the great philosophical systems of the
East, has borne practical fruit in an immeasurable efflorescence of poly¬
theism, which again is neither more nor less than a deification of those
secondary causes which modern science teaches us to classify and to
command. The habit of referring everything to the action of demons
is naturally associated in the Hindu mind with an unlimited power of
believing in miracles. If typhus is expelled from a village by the
clearing out of a poisonous drain, the villagers are convinced that the
thing has been done by a charm. If the engineer told them that he
possessed a miraculous power of curing typhus, they would at once
believe him, and would probably offer to worship him. A Bengal civil
servant, in a valuable letter published in last week’s English Independent,
mentions that once, when travelling in India, he noticed a dilapidated
and deserted shrine of the small-pox demon, Debi, and asked the eldest
son of the chief proprietor in the district to explain the circumstance.
The explanation was that, in spite of the wages paid to the priests, the
village had continued to be ravaged by small-pox, until a native vacci¬
nator, who “ brought a mysterious knife with him,” which had been
given him by the Government, “ made a mark ” on the children and
saved them from the scourge. The priests found their occupation gone,
and went elsewhere ; but the villagers evidently interpreted the facts to
mean that the vaccinator had command of a demon more powerful than
Debi. It can be easily understood that, for persons in this state of
mind, simplicity, rationality, naturalness, common sense, may stand
positively in the way of the acceptance of a religion. The ordinary
Hindu, Professor Monier Williams points out, thinks the wild exagge¬
rations and extravagances of the Ramayana and Mahabharata im¬
mensely superior to the plain story of the Gospel. “ Our Bible is too
soberly matter-of-fact in its narrative, too severely simple in its diction,
too sublimely sensible and practical in its teaching, too artlessly natural
in its record of supernatural events, to satisfy a Hindu’s craving for the
monstrous and the marvellous. I have no hesitation in affirming that,
if it had been recorded in our Scriptures that the Founder of our religion
had on any particular occasion dislodged the sun and moon from their
places, brought them down upon the earth, and made them rebound like
indiarubber balls back to their proper positions in the sky, without harm
or advantage to any living thing, the ordinary Hindu would have had
less difficulty in accepting our Bible in place of his own as the one true
revelation.”—The Christian World.
!H Mr. Enmork Jones informs us that he is getting up a meeting “ to
meet our old friend and co-worker D. D. Home, and also Mrs. Katie
| Fox Jencken,” at the Langham Hall, next Thursday evening.—Mr. J. J.
j Morse will give a trance address to the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism in a few days time.—On Thursday, last week, a social
j meeting of the Dalston Association was held, at which Mr. March, in
| the absence of Mrs. Corner, presided; owing to the entertaining
| powers of Madame Ourry, Mr. March, and others, a lively evening was
j spent.
| The Winter Spiritualistic Meetings.—The following is the pro¬
spectus of the fortnightly discussion meetings of the British National
| Association of Spiritualists, session 1878-9, at 38, Great Russell-street,
j London:—November 4, Mr. Bonwick, F.R.G.S—“Soul Ideas amongst
j the Ancient Egyptians ; ” November 18, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald—“ Expe¬
riences in the Home Circle, No. 1; ” December 2, Capt. R. F. Burton,
i F.R.G.S.— “Spiritualism in Eastern Lands;,” December 16, Mr.
Stainton-Moses, M.A.—“ The Intelligent Operator at the other end of
the Line; ” January 6, Baroness von Vay—“ Visions in Vessels of
Water; ” January 20, Mr. W. H. Harrison—“ Hauntings; ” February 3,
Miss Kislingbury—“Apparitions of the Living;” February 17, Dr. Carter
Blake—“On the Nerve Ether;” March 3, Dr. Wyld—“Christian
Occultism ; ’’.March 17, Mrs.Ellis—“Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2; ” April7, Dr.Bloede—“Psychometry; ’’ April 21,‘Mr. C.C.Massey
—“ On Some of the less-known Facts of Spiritualism ; ” May 5, Mr. D.
Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.—“Recent Research in the Phenomena of
Spiritualism.” May 19, June 2—These days are purposely left free
| for the discussion of any subjects of importance that may arise ; June 16,
i Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A.—“ Review of the Session.” If the public
| will aid a little before November 4th, there is a plan afloat to publish
these papers in a book. Particulars may be obtained from Mr. Stainton-
I Moses, 38, Great Russell-street, London.
Psychography.—The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.) says :—It gives
i us great pleasure to place before our readers the following tribute to one
) of the most devoted advocates of Spiritualism in England, whose books
should be in the hands of all Spiritualists. It is from the pen of a noted
| American Spiritualist:—“ I see that ‘ M. A., Oxon,’ our able and
j scholarly English brother Spiritualist, has found time amid his multi¬
farious duties to write and publish a capital little volume on Psycho-
j graphy, or Direct Spirit Writing, intended particularly for the
enlightenment of earnest, intelligent people, who, in order to accept our
facts, only require the evidence to be placed before them in a reliable
! and convincing form. In accomplishing this the author has been as
i successful as he has been in his previous efforts to elucidate and present
other important truths in our philosophy. His object has been to
| present within convenient space a record of facts bearing on one form
only of psychic phenomena; and he deals in facts only, with little com¬
ment, advancing no theories, but has left the intelligent reader to make
his own deductions, frame his own theories, and account for the facts as
he may. Psychography is the most convincing of all the forms of
! Spiritual phenomena, and the author, in this volume, has condensed in
a small space a record of the most complete and successful spirit mani¬
festations, through direct writing, which have occurred in America and
Europe.”
The Spirit-World.—The very grave is a passage into the beautiful
and the glorious. We have laid our friends in the grave, but they are
around us. The little children that sat upon our knees, into whose eyes
we looked with love, whose little hands have clasped our neck, on whose
| cheek we have imprinted the kiss—we can almost feel the throbbing of
| their hearts to-day. They have passed from us—but where are they ?
I Just beyond the line of the invisible. And the fathers and mothers who
educated us, who directed and comforted us, where are they but just
| beyond the line of the invisible ? The associates of our lives, that
walked along life’s pathway, those with whom we took sweet counsel,
and who dropped from our side, where are they but just beyond us ? not
far away—it may be very near us, in the heaven of light and love. Is
i there anything to alarm us in the thought of the invisible ? No! It
seems ito me that sometimes when our heads are on the pillow, there
come whispers of joy from the spirit land, which have dropped into ouf
hearts thoughts of the sublime and beautiful and glorious, as though
j some angel’s wing passed over our brow, and some dear one sat by our
| pillow and communed with our hearts to raise our affections towards the
other and better world.—Bishop Simpson, in the U.S.A. North- Western
‘ Christian Advocate,
184
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 18, 1878.
THE ANTIPATHIES OE MATERIALISM. * (
ST J. T. MARKLEY, AUTHOR OF “ STRAY THOUGHTS OR MARY THEMES.” j j
When not purely scientific, the negations of defiant j j
materialism are obviously temperamental. As a matter of j) j
belief, Leslie Stephen, and the hard and dry school of ft'
thinkers of which he is a prominent usher, can no more— j
intellectually—help sneering at the historic religions than I
Wesley, Bossuet, Channing, or Father Ignatius could help j j
being ravished by the poetry of devotional aspiration. The j
little that Stuart Mill had of the imaginative faculty was j
finally lost in the Cromwellian severity of his natural tastes. |
Such an one could not possibly weep before the gilliflowers, | j
or sigh for a “ muse of fire,” under the Grothic windows of, !
some old fane in Normandy. Not that such an intellectual j |
giant could not appreciate the botanic delicacy of the one, or j j
the historic tracings of the other; but simply because the j j
hereditary bent of his genius lay in the matter-of-fact grasp j j
of technical propositions. Milton would appeal less to his j j
sympathies than would the nomrhythmic facts of the multi- j j
plication table. Indeed, the stern etiquettes of practical and j j
utilitarian inference overleaped the spirituelle struggles of j
devotional tastes, playful fancy, and the involuntary sway of j
prayer. j I
In the case of Percy B. Shelley, the glow of reverent feel- j
ing was only spitefully checkmated by his intrepid hatred of j j
cant, natural love of moral daring, and political contempt j
for the pickled humours of history. Possibly he found in the | j
sweet, secret amours of Pantheism all the private awe and j j
poetic satisfaction of soul which orthodox religionists profess j j
to find in creed-books, dramatic prayers, and the evergreen | i
interest of biblical associations, churchal discipline, and the j
excusable communion of pastoral visitation. At any rate, j
the masterly sceptic, who gave us Queen Mab m\m ! {
moods, and the Revolt of Islam in the fruit-tide of his I
singularly dare-devil genius, cannot fairly be classed with j
the prosy Materialists of the Comte school. Like Byron, the |
muse of Shelley was eminently introspective and Spiritualistic {
—even when the most violent of the passions prostituted |
creative eloquence to barbarian necessity, or even when the |
gods were discarded as a playful but effective outrage upon j
the commonplace priesthood.
Coming to our own time, we discern in the emboldened,
but highly original verse of Swinburne, many of the surface j
elements of musical blasphemy—a kind of Republican scorn I
for temples, incense, and ripened faiths. The contempt is
doubly cruel through the inimitable leverage of front rank
genius, which lifts the reader into the “ younger day,” in
spite of pre-disposition and traditionary personal bias, j i
We bow with customary grace at the olden altars, and are j!
about to decipher the tables of stone, when the magic of a
new leaven troubles us, until the chorus of Sonps before Sun- !
rise somehow, with psychological authoritativeness, rings out U
with attractive clearness Italy’s later political births, and ||
the gradual doom of professional devotion in the land of glens !
and grapes ! Still we will not give up our grandest living j
lyrical poet to the most unpoetic section of all the born |
Materialists—the Bradlaughites. j
The robust anti-theological prejudice of Swinburne must j
not be confounded with those inbred Materialistic antipathies |
which only become chronic where imagination is lacking, as a j J
constitutional and religious defect. j
Where the intellectual understanding is fairly balanced— I
by nature or disciplinary training — with the refined I
emotions of delicate passion and religious instinct, it is |
difficult for even a sledge hammer force of political Atheism I
to altogether drive out the soul and its claims, or leave |
honest thinkers hopeless as regards a future world. In j
matters of social geniality, high moral status, and superior j
wisdom, many Materialists are more than equal to the im- |
pulsive religionists in depth and splendour of individual j
character. Indeed, their daily lives defy temptation, and j
avoid consequent scandals, simply because the tender emo- |
tions—which the feebly pious abuse—become a secondary j
influence under the austere sway of an imperious will-power. |
This will-power alone is the psychic secret of such unaided |
moral strength. But the born Materialist—standing out as j j
a critical contrast to repulsive credulity and superstition— j
is not in full emotional sympathy with nature. Here we I
may note the difference in temperament between two such
representative characters as Tom Paine, the infidel, and
Wordsworth, the Poet of the Lakes.
Both were evidently profound thinkers. The anti-theo¬
logian formulated his Age of Reason partly through a natural
contempt for the ascetic conceptions and pictorial glow of
creedal morals ; in short, he lacked, constitutionally, the
poetic tendency of ceremonial religious faith. It was an
isolated but deep inspiration of such faith, or rather the
ecstasies which come of spiritual entrancement, which made
Wordsworth’s semi-Pantheistic predisposition prayerful.
The contrast of tastes and feelings—as a natural endow¬
ment—may be also seen in the lives and opinions of such
men as Voltaire and Fenelon; or, writing up to date, in
the violent differences between the French Communists and
the Catholics of the Dupanloup school of artistic faith.
This definite prejudice of personal temperaments is cer¬
tainly not to be traced altogether to political passion. If
so, how comes it that we have in Victor Hugo the anti¬
materialist glamour of the highest poetic forms of eloquence
and emotion ?—lips which can make secular utterances a
golden and holy prayer: albeit that the priesthood is cursed
with a spleen that is musical ?
Algernon Swinburne, as we have also shown, may be
classed with Victor Hugo as a conspicuous example
that politics may invite, but cannot fully establish,
Materialism. It is essentially temperamental—an here¬
ditary, or acquired, bias of the mind. However, it
may be noticed as a fact in the psychology of opinions
that when politics degenerate into mere extravagant
Socialism—as in France, Germany, and Russia—the most
sour and unemotional forms of anti-Religionism permeate
the entire drift of rebellious programmes. To the stern
prophets of Communism nature presents no dreamy sweet¬
ness of enchantment; the altars of traditionary and historic
religions have no savour of hallowed worship; cathedrals
give no arch mol ogical pleasantry and instruction; statuary
is no breathing stimulant in marble; the graves of the
blessed dead are not absolutely sacred; and the pictorial
records of spiritual achievement cannot even be tolerated
by the political enthusiasts even where and when majestic
music ought to relieve a defiant Materialism.
Unfortunately, the extravagant pretensions of priestcraft,
in many cases and in divers countries, help on the processes
of anti-religious sternness of disposition, more particularly
among the overworked artisan classes. Should the natural
bent of the individual mind favour this acquired, passionate,
and at times justifiable rancour, the cold, hard elements of a
chronic Materialism become an abiding, possibly a painful,
fact. Prejudice is fossilised; anger assumes the ruffled
airs of ultra-fluent declamation; and the sweeping forces
of half-lettered scorn assume the importance of a fine art.
Here impassioned opinion tries to excuse itself; confronts
the mellow beliefs of the ages with affected grace and
eloquence deftly bridled, so that weighty opposition is
addressed in the confessional language of Troilus :—
“ Why there you touch’d the life of our design :
Were it not glory that we more affected
Than the performance of our heaving spleens ?”
But even this coincidence with ordinary human nature is too
short-lived to make Communist Materialism agreeable.
After the fall of Napoleon III., as is well known, Parisian
politics for a time—one of those intervals during which
history becomes a sour but splendid frenzy—naturally
deepened the hot grooves of defiant Atheism. Down came
monuments of the highest artistic beauty. Palaces were as
stubble, and their destruction as easy of popular conscience
and allowance. The tornado sway of an unreined Materialist
will-power played fast and loose with the innocent grandeur
of temples, statuary, and poetic groves. The graves in
Rere le Chase were scarcely held in decent esteem ; and the
radiating sweetness of music and incense became an
abomination to the aspirants of anti-religious freedom. We
need not pause to ask whether twenty years of a too glit-
teringmonarchical prosperity adequately provoked the citizens
to destructive malice? It will serve the purpose of this
article to note that, rightly or wrongly, the cruel mutilation
of the world’s most beautiful city was caused—for the time
Oct. 18,1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
185
being—by enthusiastic, nnemotional Materialism, in the
extreme inspiration of its logic.
Not that all Materialists are anti-religious. Far from it.
Many of our scientific sceptics are really better, and cleaner,
clearer, more abiding moralists than hosts of the impulsive
“ Sabbath-Christians ” of emotional Orthodoxy. The
philosophy of such a fact is not difficult to fathom. Those
people who are impressed the most readily by mesmeric
oratory in heated rooms, and with the pictorial efforts of
sustained appeal, are generally of the negative temperament.
In many cases they lack the imperious will-power which can
repel, and the critical culture which can resist, impassioned
addresses ; and, finally, if they be ignorant of psychological
analysis, they at once yield to even the surface trickeries of
popular speech. Therefore, the normal absence of this un¬
cultivated power of will makes them either (C mediums ” or
Methodists. I am not sneering at emotional religionists,
whose holy sensitiveness may be genuine, and from God. I
only state a temperamental fact. If many men are naturally
Materialistic through absolute strength of will, the same
power of intellectual resistance is their safety in times of
moral temptation.
This at once explains the secret of impulsive, as contra¬
distinguished from meditative, morality. If Huxley,
Tyndall, Herbert Spencer, and George Henry Lewes, be
Materialists, in the popular acceptation of the term, it is
quite certain that their private characters will stand a test of
moral comparison with any four of our living bishops, or the
same number of equally earnest dissenting divines. But the
emotional and impassioned power of soul, which gives fluency
and warmth to parsonic and poetic temperaments, seems to
be disciplined out of existence in the case of the less refined
and intellectual Materialists. The passion for prayer and
devotion is completely stifled by a contemptuous dealing
with the imagination. Infidels rarely feel the infinite thrill
of operatic music, or the subtle sweetness of Keble’s ever¬
lasting hymns. A severely educated dread of “ superstition ”
—cultivated year after year in sang froid—deprives the
Gregorian Chants at St. Paul’s Cathedral of half their holy
power to a modern Secularist. Mrs. Barrett Browning could
feel the ecstasy of a third heaven’’ in the presence of
kaleidoscopic church windows in Italy. Such emblems of
profound spirituality would very differently impress the
equally scholastic, but less dreamy, Harriet Martineau. The
poetess made the abstract and the ideal rise superior to
bricks and mortar. Flesh and blood, in the incidents of
being, were rendered subservient to the rhythmic and
recreative playfulness of a naturally devotional fancy. In
the case of the political essayist, the temperament was more
masculine, more combative in thought, and free, to a great
extent, from the hallowed ravings of poetry. Mrs. Brown¬
ing was as the southern zephyrs laden with the scents
of scenic vineyards, and cooling the violet breasts of
softly musical seas. Harriet Martineau resembled the
powerful and defiant, yet majestic heavy roll of the
November rains as they interpret their strong and
fearful force against the dark crags of Iona. They
both serve to illustrate my argument as to the law of
individual temperaments. Harriet Martineau’s inclination
towards Materialism—in its intellectual forms—would have
prevented her from both feeling and writing such a truly
spiritual poem as Mrs. Browning’s “ Cry of the Children.”
But in framing a Factory Act to remove the cause of the
weeping of the oppressed, the stern, practical utilitarian
bent of the unpoetic woman, Miss Martineau, could rise
equal to the secular occasion and necessity. Apart altogether
from religious and emotional instincts, we might similarly
contrast Mrs. Hemans with Frances Power Cobbe, Eliza
Cook with Annie Besant, and, indeed, innumerable ex¬
amples in this normal and hereditary inclination of culture
and personal predisposition. The variation and contrast of
sympathies may be said to be less moral than intellectual;
but the absence of rapture and imagination in some other¬
wise noble personages will explain the antipodean phases of
human attachments. Religion is not always a security
against Materialistic antipathies. As a thoughtful and firm
believer in Christianity, 1 don’t hesitate to say that many
ultra-Protestants have the harsh, non-ideal severity of tastes
of the Materialistic philosophy. Calvinism may be one of
our most earnest forms of belief. It is certainly the most
stern, unimaginative, ponderously abstract of all the faiths.
The winter-tide gloom and vengeance of its cruel tenets are
neither sunny nor majestic ; not even to the selfish elect. It
has no pleasantry of moral introspection. The heaven it
proposes is merely a fretful, other-world continuation of the
Scotch Sabbath. In fact, the very existence of such a case-
hardened programme of monotonus theology prove that its
foundations lie deeply incorporated with a cold, materialistic
righteousness, inseparable from the soul-chilling, rough-
hewn conventicles in which it groaningly lingers to curse
and worship its demon-God. Such a creed only coheres by
an united effort to repress all intellectual joy. It is the
antithesis of wide hope: the antagonist of all beauty. Its
periods are frequent when, by a sort of moral tyranny, girls
may not laugh, boys climb the hills, or thistledown venture
to bloom gaily on the heather. You cannot convince a
traditionary Calvinist that the fine tenor voices of Christy’s
Minstrels will some day be heard in Heaven, or that the
daily edition of the Times—and possibly Punch—will be
written and read world without end. In fact, the extreme
prejudices of a distorted Christianity speak neither more nor
less than a gross Materialism, only relieved of its naked
ugliness by some rare examples of self-sacrifice. The
motives may be pure, but the conception of God, of love,
of nature, of art, and of spiritual joy is eminently secular
and anti-emotional. The antipathies of Materialism in
matters religious are well shown in the following extract
from the Christian World: i( James Johnstone (acting with
Dr. Begg) lately transmitted by post 3,115 book packets to
as many ministers in Scotland, denouncing the use of in¬
strumental music in the worship of God in a spirit of the
wildest fanaticism, and now he has just forwarded to the
same persons An entirely nero Statement of Facts from the
Scriptures to prove that what was in Old Testament times
a serving of God had now become a serving of the devil.”
A few such Christian Materialists would, in Heaven, spoil
the legitimate joy of the righteous.
Materialism—be it religious or secular—is an evident
shortcoming of the full faculties of the human soul. In
spiritual matters it is the severe negation of pathos. It
treats tenderness, harmony, intense affection, and the play
of fancy with studied scorn. Poetry and the appeals of art
irritate Materialism in the same way that the sun irritates
weak eyes. It is only concerned with fiction in so far as
beautiful 11 white lies ” are combative and satirical. It
could only meet Florence Marryatt’s ghostly Open Sesame
with repugnance and pain. It cares not for scenery which
cannot be eaten after observation—;as in the case of pea-
flowered fields and flame-hued apple orchards. Unless it
takes on the intrepid reveries of Pantheism, to muse and
commune with forests and gilliflowers, the inspiration of
unemotional Materialism is essentially the natural outgrowth
of a normal defect in spirituality and the more genial glow
of a cultivated imagination. Its direct opposite may never-
the less often lead to credulity and superstition.
In this article only the higher intellectual and moral
side of Materialism has been referred to in a few of its
psychological developments. Neither the calm Platonic
grandeur of its dispassionate morals nor the critical earnest¬
ness of its studied contempt for tenderness, ideality, or the
raptures of art and affection, will fairly excuse the indi¬
vidual repression of the soul’s musical playfulness, deep,
devotional instincts, and natural interest in tradition, historic
religions, and the triumphs of a smiling faith in God. As a
countercheck to ordinary human credulity, emotional lunacy,
and idol-worship, intellectual Materialism is evidently a
divine saviour of society. In its worst forms the strong
code of inflexible morals has no status; and when under the
sway of violent passions it culminates in the revels of the
Haymarket. However, as in connection with the most
melancholy and rigid forms of Genevan theology we have
seen hosts of the world’s best prophets and saints, so in the
circles of sceptical Materialism also exist examples of the
highest gifts, graces, and character. But may not the
religion which only favours a skeleton faith, and the
scientific infidelity which scorns the rapture of diversified,
emotion, lack the deeper charms and poetry of life?
3, Park-terrace, Horsham.
iM
6ct. 18, 1878.
THE QUEEN AND SPIRITUALISM. j l
Some years ago Mr. Alexandre Aksakof, of St. Peters- jjj
burg, printed in these pages the details of the Czar of m
Russia’s admission of the reality of the phenomena of m
Spiritualism, and shortly afterwards the Daily Telegraph m
announced a similar admission on the part of the Emperor jf I
of Germany. Both rulers gave their testimony as the | j
result of personal experience. The Whitehall Review is i j j
responsible for the publication of the following about Queen j j
Victoria:— I
It is rumoured in circles not likely to be victimised by an j
absolute canard, that amongst the converts to Spiritualism |
must be numbered our gracious Sovereign. It is, we j
believe, a fact that one of Her Majesty’s most confidential | I
friends, the late Madame Van de Weyer, was a thorough | j
Spiritualist, and held stances at New Lodge, in order to j j
communicate with quic-quidfait immortale of her husband. j
If the Queen was, indeed, ever present at these stances, the j
idea at once suggests itself that her motive in taking part j
in a function of this sort would be something more than j
mere vain curiosity or a morbid search after excitement.
Like her friend, the Queen has suffered a terrible bereave- j
ment, and we can well imagine that the hope of penetrating, !
if only for a second, behind the veil, and of learning the J
condition of the illustrious personage with whom her life !
was linked, may have drawn her unresistingly towards the j
medium and have converted the stance—associated as it is j
in most minds with absurdity and trickery—into a solemnity j
of rare significance. We have not been informed whether | j
Madame Van de Weyer was what is termed “ mediumistic,” j j
or whether a third party was introduced in order to inter- j !
pret the missives from the tomb. Possibly the “ wise |
woman,” or, as she is now styled, “ trance medium,” was j
employed.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS. j
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL. ' j (
On Tuesday, last week, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the j)
Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists at 38, Great j (
Russell-street, London, Mr. Alexander Calder, president, occupied the j j
chair. The other members present were Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz- !)
Gerald, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, the Rev. W. W. Newbould, i j
Miss Withall, Mr. March, Mr. Pearson, Mr. Bennett, Mr. Colley, Miss j |
Houghton, Mr. Stainton-Moses, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mr. R. Pearce, ! j
and Mr. Harrison.
Two new ordinary members were elected. There were two resig- i
nations. !
Mr. Morell Theobald, for the Finance Committee, reported a balance j \
in hand of £68 7s., recommended payments to the extent of £19 17s. 8d., ! (
and estimated the outstanding liabilities of the Association at £50. He i
said this report, which was the most unfavourable one ever presented, ]
showed how necessary it was that the outstanding subscriptions of some !)
of the members should be paid in. j)
Mr. Stainton-Moses then read the report of the General Purposes j
Committee, as follows:— j)
The General Purposes Committee has had under consideration the financial | j
condition of the Association. It was reported that the liabilities to the end of !)
the year were £113, leaving the December rent to be paid in January of next j)
year; that £21 10s. was in hand, and that rent would produce £12 10s.; j;
moreover, Mr. Bennett estimated that £15 would accrue from the sale of the j (
“ Proceedings of the Association.” The committee recommend that £25 be j)
taken from Mr. M ’s donation of £50 to meet general expenses; that the | j
£7 which it was proposed to devote to the purchase of a carpet be applied to ! \
the general fund. It having been reported that the expenses of printing the | (
Proceedings of the Association from May to October were £21 18s. 6d., j)
besides postage amounting to about 18s. per month, it was decided to recom- j j
mend the discontinuance of the Proceedings, unless the expense was !)
guaranteed, since, in the opinion of the committee, the state of the finances j |
did not justify such expenditure. The committee consider that the amount j (
further required, a little over £30, may be left to stand over till December, i)
The programme of Fortnightly Discussion Meetings having been submitted to i)
the committee, in consequence of the Experimental Research Committee | \
having no meeting before the next Council meeting, it was resolved to request i (
the Council to consider the advisability of sending a card of admission to i)
reporters of the press, and of placing a box in the room for donations. j)
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald announced, on behalf of the Research ! >
Committee, that that committee in its experiments did not consider that 1)
it had anything to do with the private characters of mediums, however j \
important that element might be in the work of other committees of the I j
Association. |)
Mr. W. H. Harrison moved i
That the minutes of all committee meetings held during the intervals j) |
between Council meetings be read in full by the secretary to the Association, j ( j
at the first Council meeting after they have been passed, and be of non- i (;
effect and not authorised until they are both received and adopted by the j j;
Council, i i i
He said that at the previous meeting the Council had taken power to
do secret work in its committees, and the above resolution would remove
that evil. At present the Council had no efficient control over its com¬
mittees, and knew only those portions of the proceedings of each which
the chairman of the committee reported, if he made a report at all. He
(Mr. Harrison) had written to the most efficient of the many organisa¬
tions whose good method of working he had watched for years, and had
asked on what system the Council kept efficient control of its committees.
The system which had worked so well he had embodied in the above
resolution.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that the Council and committees had so
much work to do that he did not see how they could take on more.
Mr. Harrison replied that his resolution would give them less work
to do. At present the chairmen of the committees had to make
reports; but reading over the minutes would leave them little or no
reporting to do.
Mr. Stainton-Moses called Mr. Harrison’s attention to Bye-law 8,
namely—
Reports of all committees shall be made in writing, and signed by each
member of the committee, or by the chairman on behalf of the committee.
Mr. Harrison replied that that did not touch the evil of the rights of
the members of the Association being infringed by Mr. Bennett’s reso¬
lution passed at the last Council meeting, recognising a power on the
part of committees to keep back in their reports a portion of the work
done by them, and censuring anybody who made the secret portion
publicly known.
Nobody seconded the resolution, which therefore fell through.
Mr. Harrison consequently gave the following notice of motion:—
That some of the committees of this Council having entered minutes of
business transacted which they have not reported to the Council; that a reso¬
lution having been passed forbidding private members of the Association to
see those minutes without the special sanction of the Council; that the press
having been silenced in relation to the said minutes by a resolution that the
publication of them will be deemed a breach of privilege—It is hereby resolved
that action upon all the resolutions thus changing the constitution of the Asso¬
ciation and producing the above results, passed on the 10th of September last,
shall be suspended until the members have had an opportunity at the next
annual general meeting of saying whether they wish to support a heretofore
public institution, which, without their consent, has taken the power to
transact secret business, and to shut them out from subsequent knowledge
thereof.
Mr. March said that the above notice contained an argument, and he
thought that it ought not to be received.
Mr. E. T. Bennett moved that the notice of motion be not received.
This was seconded by Miss Houghton, and supported by Mr. Dawson
Rogers.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald said that the charges were so serious that
they ought to be investigated by the Council instead of suppressed.
Mr.' Harrison asked for a division,’and that the votes be recorded.
That it be not received:—Miss Houghton, Mr. Bennett, Mr. Dawson
Rogers, Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. March, Mr. Colley, and Mr. R.
Pearce. Total, seven;
That it be received:—Mr. Stainton-Moses, the Rev. W. W. New¬
bould, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison. Total, five.
The Council therefore refused to receive the notice of motion by a
majority of two.
Mr. Harrison, after asserting that no right existed to refuse a notice
of motion, gave in two other notices, as follows :—
1. That this Council is of opinion that if it does not inform the members of
the Association how each councillor has voted in divisions relating to public
questions, yet asks the members to vote for or against him at annual elections,
the members are thereby placed in a false position ; so this Council pledges
itself to adopt measures to let them know how their representatives perform
their duty.
2. That the General Purposes Committee is hereby instructed to consider
and to report to the next Council meeting the best method of keeping the
members of the Association informed how each of their representatives on the
Council does his duty.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE MIDLAND COUNTIES.
On Sunday last a Conference of Spiritualists was held in the Co¬
operative Assembly Rooms, Monk-street, Derby. Representatives were
present from Nottingham, Belper, Walsall, Birmingham, Leicester,
Sheffield, and various other places. The morning meeting was opened
by the president of the local society, Mr. J. J. Morse, who welcomed to
Derby the friends present, as the Conference was held under the
auspices of the Derby Psychological Society. The meeting was then
made into the Conference proper, and Mr. R. Harper, of Birmingham,
was appointed chairman. The morning session was devoted to dis¬
cussing the status of Spiritualism in the various towns of the Midland
district, and satisfactory reports on the whole were presented. Mr.
Johnson, vice-president of the Lancashire District Committee of
Spiritualists, was in attendance, and gave a lengthy and interesting
statement of the origin, use, and present position of that body. The
afternoon meeting, after due consideration, passed a resolution to the
effect that “ A Conference Committee ” should be elected, and the
following names were accepted by vote as the committee for the next
three months :—Mr. Hunter, Sheffield; Mr. Burdett, Leicester ; Mr.
Blinkhorn, Walsall; Mr. Bodel, Belper; Mr. Mayle, Derby; Mr.
Taylor, Nottingham. President, Mr. Harper, Birmingham; treasurer,
Mr. Hitchcock, Nottingham ; secretary, Mr. Morse, Derby. A Guarantee
Fund was then instituted, and nearly £40 was at once entered upon it.
The two Conference meetings were well attended. In the evening the
hall was crowded to its utmost capacity to listen to an address through
Mr. Morse, the well-known trance medium. The subject was
“ Spiritualism as a Moral Power and Religious Teacher,” and the
6ct. l£, 187^.
18.7
handling of it gave evident pleasure to all present. Mr. Morse’s
services were rendered free of charge. Mr. E. W» Wallis, of London,
was present and rendered active service. The series of meetings passed
off well. The day’s proceedings were pleasantly varied by instrumental
music, for which those present were indebted to Mr. C. Parker, the
treasurer to the Derby Psychological Society.
A TRANCE-SPEAKING FARMER. j j
Des Moines, Ia., Sept. 2.—Cousiderable excitement has
recently been created in Washington and Johnson counties | j
by the mysterious doings of Noah Troyer, an Amish farmer, j j
living near the village of Amish, in the south-west corner of
Johnson county. He is in comfortable circumstances, about j j
forty-eight years old, and has a wife and four children. By
birth he is a German, and a member of the Orthodox Amish j j
Church. He is very illiterate, seldom reading a book. The I I
only paper he has about the house, or has read for several | |
years, is the Chicago Evening Journal. He has a copy of the j j
Bible in German, but seldom reads it. He has never pos- j ]
sessed an English Bible, and his family do not know that he j I
ever saw one. He speaks both English and German. He and j i
his family are highly respectable, and he is noted among his j j
neighbours for his aptness in training horses and telling good j j
stories. He is very strict in his religious notions, conforms j j
rigidly to the tenets of the Amish Church, and will not ! j
attend the services of any other. j j
About four years ago he was troubled with distension of j j
the stomach, accompanied with cramping pains, which was i I
followed by a lethargic condition. About a year ago these j
attacks were followed by a condition of unconsciousness or j
trance, in which he talked upon religious matters. These j
became periodical, finally coming on every day. He would ] j
rise about daylight, eat a hearty breakfast, and go about his | i
usual farm-work. About three o’clock in the afternoon the j
bloating and cramp of the stomach would come, followed by j
drowsiness, which gradually increased. He would eat a
light supper, and, when night came, he would be nearly un- j j
conscious. He prepared a low couch in a large room, on j j
which he would lie down and pass into convulsions, which j |
would last nearly an hour. About nine o’clock he would j I
rise to his knees, and utter a short prayer or invocation, j j
followed by repeating the Lord’s Prayer; after which he j j
would rise to his feet and deliver a sermon from an hour to |
two hours long—speaking with a strong voice, which could j
be heard by three hundred people outside the house. He j
moves about the room, gesticulates forcibly, and his manner j
is that of a person earnestly speaking to a large audience. I
His language is not elegant, yet his discourse is always \
logical and eloquent, and evinces preparation. He preaches !
from the Bible, but takes no text. He often illustrates j
ideas with passages identical with Milton’s Paradise Lost, j
yet he never saw that work, and probably does not know I
Milton ever lived. His discourses are liberal in doctrine, j
whereas the Amish Church is exclusive and dogmatic. He |
speaks in the German and English languages. On one |
occasion, however, he spoke about twenty minutes in German ; j j
then for more than an hour in a language unknown to any j !
one present, although there were persons of education and j j
talent listening ; and suddenly closed in English, in which I j
he said he had declared the Word of God in three languages, j
and shown how to gain the ark of safety, and avoid the pit. |
He sets forth but two Churches : Christ, light, love, charity ; j
and the Devil, darkness, hate, selfishness. He often gives |
passages of Scripture, and, being questioned the next morning !
about them, cannot tell whether they are in the Bible or not. j j
He knows very little of what is in the Old Testament. At jj
the close .of his discourse he gives a short benediction and the j j
Lord’s Prayer, and falls on his couch, apparently exhausted, |j
his whole person having the appearance of a dead man; | j
and, after a few moments’ convulsive tremor, suddenly |
awakes, gets up, and walks out of the house. The next I
morning he gets up, says he has had a good night’s rest, and K
goes to his work, only to repeat the experience of the day
before ; and so it has been for months, every night. | j
The mystery, of course, soon began to spread abroad. At jj j
first it annoyed the family very much, as it kept them from jj j
sleep and rest; but they could not prevent it; and soon the jj j
crowds which gathered compelled them to adapt themselves jj j
to the circumstances. Clergymen and physicians have 1 '
observed the phenomenon, and are all alike puzzled, but agree
that there is no deception about it. When he is speaking,
his eyes are closed, his abdomen and stomach distended and
hard as stone, not yielding to pressure more than a case of
iron. As soon as he passes out of the convulsive stage, the
stomach and abdomen at once become naturally soft and
pliable. His pulse is remarkably strong, but not increased
in rapidity. When he ceases speaking, his pulse becomes
rather weak. Several attempts have been made to awake
him while he was speaking, but the most vigorous treat¬
ment failed evv.n to check his talk.
Every nigut this has been going on, with but two excep¬
tions. One was when he was attending service in his own
church. He was seized with his drowsiness, and determined
not to go home, but to overcome it. He, however, did not,
but arose in his place and preached two hours with remark¬
able power, much to the astonishment of the meeting. On
Sunday of last week a large number of people was present
from surrounding towns and cities. After speaking over an
hour and a half, he closed with the Lord’s Prayer; but
instead of dropping on his couch, as usual, he opened his
eyes and quickly said : u My eyes have been opened. I stand
before you a natural man. It has been revealed to me that
this is the last time I shall speak to you. My work is done,
and I am released.” His face expressed much joy; but, as
he beheld the crowd of people, the change was quickly that
of surprise and fear. Since then he has not spoken, and
none are more gratified than his family, who had been
nearly worn out with fatigue and excitement. They give no
explanation of the matter. Indeed, they say they know
nothing about it. Troyer knows nothing of what he does
or says, and only says he cannot help it. It is the work of
the Lord, and he must do His will. The Amish Church
generally so believe it to be, and nothing else. Spiritualists
who have seen him say he is a medium controlled by a
deceased Amish preacher. No person of intelligence believes
it to be a fraud. Several medical men from Washington
and Iowa City visited him, but what their opinion is has not
been made known.— Chicago Tribune.
EXTRACTS FROM THE REVUE SPTRITE.
The Revue Spirite announces the death of a well-known
Spiritualist, M. Le Comte Adolphe Sadria Poninski. M.
E. S. Kasprovicz, the president of the society of which
the Count was the founder, writes concerning him as
follows:—“ Comte Poninski belonged to an old princely
Polish family; he held a prominent position in Gallicia,
which he resigned to go to Leipzig to spread there a know¬
ledge of Spiritualism, sacrificing thus his worldly advance¬
ment for the sake of his faith. He was extremely chari¬
table, and put into practice his spiritual theories. He was
the founder of German Spiritualism ; at Leipzig he formed
the “ Societe Yerein fur Spirite Studien,” and in this city,
the centre of materialism, despite the scorn and con¬
tempt of the press and of men of science, he continued to
battle steadfastly for our belief. His death was very
peaceful, and with his last words he affirmed his perfect
faith in the docrine of Beincarnation. He died respected
by even his adversaries. He truly was an advocate who
did honour to the cause of Spiritualism.”
The Revue Spirite contains a curious letter concerning
the apparition of a dog. The writer says that he is con¬
stantly aware of the presence of a ghostly dog; he has
only to think of it and it appears; he sees it, and feels its
caresses, and it is his companion night and day. In recog¬
nition of the affection which this strange animal lavishes
upon him, he has bestowed on it the name of Fidele. He
asks other Spiritualists if they can give him any explana¬
tion as to the cause of this strange phenomenon.
The same journal gives a highly favourable review of
Mr. Edward Maitland’s recent work, The Soul, and How It
Found Me.
Thje reunion of Spiritualists at the first of the winter soirees of the
British National Association of Spiritualists early next month will, as
usual, ‘be a brilliant one, and among the attractions Mr. Barrett will
exhibit the working of the new self-recording machinery for weighing
mediums during manifestations. The working of the galvanometrio
apparatus for testing mediums will also be exhibited, in a room semi-
darkened for the purpose.
188
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 18, 1878.
CcsttesponUetue.
Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]  
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN HOMOEOPATHY ?
Sm,—“B.’s ” observations in the study of Spiritualism have doubtless
led him to the conclusion that a true view of any “ so-called ” unorthodox
subject is only to be obtained by the study of its literature, by putting
assertions fairly {i.e., in accordance with the asserted conditions) to the
test on every available occasion, and by keeping one’s self au courant on
the subject by the systematic perusal of its periodicals. If a thing be
true, to know it, to understand it, is to assent to it. Outside the subject,
as in Spiritualism so in homoeopathy, only the misrepresentation of often
conscientious, and, sometimes, of merely frivolous ignorance, is to be
found. This being so, the best answer “ B.” can get is from himself.
Let him do his own thinking, thus :—Let him go to the nearest homoeo¬
pathic chemist’s, and invest Is. 6d. in Dr. Ruddock’s Stepping-Stone to
Homoeopathy and Healthy and Is. in the Focket Glossary of Medical
Terms, by James Wylde, published by Death and Ross, 5, St. Paul’s-
churchyard; further, let him expend 6d. monthly in the purchase of
The Homoeopathic World, which is written expressly to meet the wants
of the unprofessional as well as of the professional, and he will find the
true answer come to him slowly and surely, as by reading, comparing,
and testing, his mental vision becomes clear on the subject. He will
never regret following this advice. I speak from an experience of
eighteen years in India and England. My first experience was curing
myself of chronic dysentery in the former country. Since my return to
England I have been but once under medical (homoeopathic) treatment
for any time, and that was for sciatica, brought on, I believe, by the work
of watching over and attending' on one who was sufiering from brain
fever, and who was safely brought round by homoeopathy. The same
doctor attended us both.
Yes, many Spiritualists believe in homoeopathy, and many homoeo¬
paths believe in Spiritualism. I see, on comparing the names with the
medical lists, that almost all the medical men who are Spiritualists are
also homoeopaths. One conviction leads the way to the other, for it is
seen that, mutatis mutandis, the same d priori arguments, and the same
misconceptions of ignorance are brought forward by outsiders in both
cases. I was totally unable to believe, as the orthodox on both subjects
would have one believe, that numbers (and increasing ones) of my
fellow-men were either “ knaves or dupes,” so, on the first opportunity,
I did my own thinking. Henry Menars.
Bath, October 11th, 1878.
ARTIFICIAL MEMORY.
Sir,—I am not acquainted with Stokes’s system, but can do all that
his system enables any one to do. Any one who wishes to be able to do
likewise, if not inclined to go to Stokes, should purchase Systematic
Memory, by T. Maclaren, price one shilling : published by F. Pitman,
20, Paternoster-row. I have applied mnemonics to all sorts of subjects
for the last ten and a-half years. To make it thoroughly and extensively
useful I found it necessary to increase the number of “ memory-pegs ” to
five hundred. This I did by means of the vowels “ a, e, i, o, u.” For the
hundred given in the pamphlet I substituted monosyllables having the
sound (long or short) of “ a ” in them; for the second hundred mono¬
syllables having that of “e;” for the third, that of l<i; ” fourth, that
of “ o; ” fifth, that of “ u.” The sound mind ; the whole system is
phonetic. I also found it useful to allow “ w ” as well as “ f ” and “ v”
to stand for “ 5.” It must be remembered that “ Repetition is the
mother of study,” and no system can do away with the necessity for it,
but “mnemonics” makes the repetition “ child’s play.” E.G.—I first
tested it more than ten years ago, while confined to my bed by a severe
attack of sciatica, by learning five hundred French sentences (which I
numbered off as I learnt them) so perfectly that given (x) either the
number (y), the sentence in French (z), or the English of it, I could
give the other two; given x, I at once gave y and z ; given y, then x, z,
and so on. "Well, these sentences I had hardly again given a thought to
until a short time back, when two or three steady reperusals brought
them all back clearly to my memory, so far as those reperusals have
yet gone, i.e., to 350 of the sentences. In forming my “ pegs,” I have
drawn, where necessary, upon all the languages I happen to be more or
less conversant with.
Those who wish to see how mnemonics may be applied to “mathe¬
matics” should procure No. 105 of Weale’s Rudimentary Series, entitled
First Mnemonical Lessons, by the Rev. T. P. Kirkman, price Is. 6d.,
Crosby, Lockwood, and Co. I know, as an old mathematician, that any
one who masters with understanding the seven pages of “ mnemonical
lines” therein given, and keeps them’fresh in his memory by occasional
repetition, has the whole book of 180 pages at his fingers’ ends, so to
speak. In lodging such things in one’s head, as say the value of “ II ”
to fifteen places of decimals, I find it useful to let the sound of “z”
represent the decimal point. Lastly, I have to say that by help of my
disciplined memory I need but little indoor study. I take the shell of
my mathematical problems with me, and solve them in my daily
rambles about the beautiful scenery round here; or if it is a language I
wish to pick up, I can do so, anywhere and everywhere, by turning
the pages of it stored up in my memory into “ questions and answers ”
(Robertsonianmethod), though, of course, only aloud when I am alone.
In reading a book, I mark, as I peruse it, the passages worth stereo¬
typing in my head, and, after going through the book, return to the
first marked, and commence “pegging.” "Wherever I am I need never
be idle, can always chew the cud of knowledge, and so bring forth “ old
things and new.” Let everyone who is led by the perusal of this letter
to discipline his memory, remember that it is “ Practice that makes
perfect.” Every mathematician knows the value of a ready recollec¬
tion of formulae. It is well to appeal to the voice and to the ear-
memories as well as to the eye-memory, and to do so effectually no
exactitude in giving them can be too great. E.G.—It will not do to
A
read —as the eye would suggest, but we must give each letter a different
a
sound, say, read the capitals as Greek letters, “ alpha by «; ” so it will
not do to read “ P (1 -j ),’’ “ P into one plus r by 100 ; ” but, to pre-
100
vent ambiguity, we must read ff P into the sum of 1 and of the quotient
of r by 100.” H. M.
Bath, October 6th, 1878.
WHAT GOOD HAS SPIRITUALISM DONE?
Sir,—"Will you permit me to add my humble testimony to that of
others as to “ What good has Spiritualism done ? ” I am only in the
A B O of spiritual knowledge, yet have I in the space of the twelve
months past been most blest, and I truly believe am a better woman for
the knowledge that has come to me. I know no “ mediums,” have seen
nothing except in my own home, in the stillness of my lonely room ;
and the spirit who calls herself my guardian first proved her presence
and power when, utterly at fault, in great trouble and perplexity, I
needed, if ever human soul needed, help and advice. Help, such as an
aching heart needs ; advice that prevented me from doing a very foolish
thing. This my sweet guardian gave me.
My life has been one of much sorrow, and often in the past the
burden has seemed more than I could bear. I have long been what
people call “ religious,” but neverfelt the blessedness of true faith in my
God and my Redeemer till the spirits showed me the new bright light!
And since then I know that one prayerful thought will bring their
power over me ; alone or in a crowd there they are, ready to help and
advise. In most trying moments, when much depended on my “ yes ”
or * ‘ no,” and I knew not which to say, they have decided for me, when
my woman’s weakness and inexperience would have led me into quite
the opposite course.
Twice, when angry feelings would have made me write such letters as
might have wrecked my happiness for life, my hand and pen have been
taken possession of by my loving guide, and my letters written for me /
—written by that Divine law of love that teaches us to forgive our
enemies, and love them that hurt us.
And now a new blessing has been vouchsafed me. I twisted a leader
in my right hand; I could not use it at all, and was in much pain; a good
angel came and manipulated it, and eventually, during a semi-trance
into which I was put, my hand was quite restored, not a vestige of pain
left!
My spirit friends not only bring me sweet comfort from those I love
in the better land, but they are my “ Mizpah ’’ here with distant loved
ones.
I enclose my card. A. M. B. Y.
Oct. 9th, 1878. "  
SIMULATION.
Sir,—The following from Dr. Gregory’s Animal Magnetism, published
in 1851, 1st edition, p. 102, may be of interest:—
“ I have always admitted the possibility of deceit in animal mag¬
netism, when practised for the sake of money. And I believe that cases
have occurred of genuine somnambulists who, under certain circum¬
stances, have been guilty of imposition. Let us suppose a person who
is really possessed of certain powers in the mesmeric sleep, but who is
greedy of gain and vain of his powers. If, as I have shown to be
probable, he should on some public occasion find his power much less
than usual, or should be deprived of it by over-exertion in previous
experiments which have succeeded, not only is his vanity hurt, but his
prospects of gain are diminished; and if, as may happen, he does not
possess the highest sense of truth and honour, he may try to make up
for deficient power by deceit. I have some reason to believe that indi¬
viduals, of whose power at times no doubt can reasonably be entertained,
have, when over-fatigued, or by some chance less lucid than usual,
endeavoured to cover failure by deceit. Of course, although I might
believe such persons to possess great lucidity at certain times, and to
have acted thus dishonestly, simply from the desire to escape the con¬
fession of failure and the loss of expected gain, yet I should not use the
evidence derived from such cases. It is best to reject all evidence to
which any suspicion can attach. There is abundance of unexception¬
able evidence, if we only look for it; and I would look with suspicion on
the evidence derived from the public exhibitions of those who make a
trade of such exhibitions, and use paid subjects.” Observer.
A SEANCE WITH MISS WOOD.
Sir,—I attended Miss Wood’s seance, held in the Newcastle Society’s
Rooms, on Sunday morning last. There were besides the medium
thirteen persons present, surrounding her in a semi-circle. The cabinet
consists of four green baize curtains, suspended from a rod in a corner
of the room; the medium sat in an armchair outside of the curtains in
view of all the sitters; the light was just sufficient to enable me to dis¬
tinguish the pointers of my watch, which has a white dial; and to enable
us to discern the medium more clearly in such light, a white cambric
handkerchief was pinned to her bonnet and dress. She sat a short
time, after which the control asked to be allowed to take the medium
into the cabinet to obtain power, as it alleged. I objected to this as
against the instructions of the committee, when the control intimated
that the phenomena should only occur under the society’s prescribed
conditions, namely, while the medium was outside the cabinet, and in
full view of the sitters ; thereupon I assented. The medium then went
within the green baize curtains, where she remained about ten minutes,
and then resumed her original place. After the singing of a hymn by
Oct. 18, 1878.
THE SriltITUALIST.
180
us, and a few verses of a second song, a shroud was seen to emerge from
the empty cabinet, walk around the medium, and re-enter it on the
other side; it made its appearance a second time, carrying on this
occasion a tambourine, when a gentleman requested it to come forward
and tap him on the elbow, which it accordingly did. It again walked
around the medium, varying during the process in length from about
four to five feet, then re-entered the cabinet. I asked permission to
exchange seats with a friend of mine at the other end of the semi¬
circle, as his appeared a better point for observation, and on being
allowed I placed myself there, bringing myself within a foot and a-half of
the medium. The shroud then came a third time out of the vacant
cabinet, appeared to be fully two feet from the medium, and about the
same measurement higher as it walked around the chair in which the
medium was sitting and talking, apparently under control.
I observed closely, but could see no movements on the part of the
medium to account for the motion of the shroud, or the more complex
fact of its carrying the tambourine, and, in response to a request to do
so, tapping the gentleman already mentioned. The shroud distinctly
retired ultimately into the cabinet, which I was the first to enter, to find,
if possible, any drapery that would account for the appearance which
we had just witnessed, but I need hardly add my search was a fruitless
one. John Mould.
Newcastle-on-Tyne, 10th October, 1878.
ALLEGED ASTROLOGICAL INFLUENCE OF ECLIPSES.
Sir,—It is an aphorism of the ancients that “ children born during a
visible eclipse do not long survive their birth.” A medical gentleman
residing in Edinburgh was called to a case in the early morning of the
13th of August last. He found on arrival that a fine, healthy girl had
been born exactly at 12h. 20m. a.m. (Greenwich mean time). The
horoscope (drawn for 12h. 7m. 16s. a.m., Edinburgh time) shows the
moon eclipsed on the zenith, in semi-quartile aspect to Saturn, and
hastening to the opposition of Uranus and Mars. The middle of the
eclipse took place at 12h. 8m. 2s. Greenwich mean time, according to
the Nautical Almanac. The child died of diarrhoea on the 25th of
August. The facts are beyond dispute, the doctor having been at great
pains to ascertain the exact moment of birth, regarding it as a test of
the ancient belief before referred to. • He was greatly astonished at the
child’s death, nevertheless.
I may mention that I have records in my possession of several children
horn without life during eclipses. I have never yet met with any case
of a child born during an eclipse attaining maturity. I shall be glad if
any of your readers can supply me with well-authenticated times of
birth of children born during eclipses, whether they long survived their
birth or not. Alfred J. Pearce.
3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, Olapham, S.W.,
October 3rd, 1878.  
MR. EGLINTON IN SOUTH AFRICA.
Sir,—Mr. W. Eglinton arrived here on the 4th August, as your
readers are doubtless aware by this time. Since then we have had
regular seances with him three times a week, under the auspices of the
committee of the Psychological Society, who will send in their report
hereafter. As investigators, no more palpable proofs of immortality
could have been afforded us than the manifestations occurring through
this gentleman’s mediumship. I consider him one of the best sensitives
in the world. Although Dr. Monck’s sittings with the Rev. T. Colley
in full light were certainly the acme of spirit materialisation, they could
not always be produced in the presence of sceptics. With Mr. Eglinton
the manifestations are generally certain in the presence of either
believers or investigators.
Had I the means to spend £1,000 a year for the cause for five years,
I would, with him, do a mighty work. At present I can only quietly
push my way, as my finances are strictly limited, and people, I find, are
very unwilling to pay their share for value received, although they must
know the “ labourer is worthy his hire.” Mr. Eglinton is a gentleman,
and knows how to maintain his dignity as such. My confidence in him
is consequently very great; not only that his position entitles him to
this confidence, but that I have proved him, beyond a shadow of a
doubt, to be a grand physical and intellectual medium, the spirit
“Ernest” giving us this latter phase.
Your readers may not know who I am, but I may state that, having
lived in America for ten years, and in various parts of Europe, and seen
all sides of human nature, I feel quite competent to judge when a man
is doing what he professes. I think few men would deceive me by
palmistry, hypocrisy, or psychological influences, especially if he lived
in my own house, as does Mr. Eglinton. I have proved spirit com¬
munion to be true long since, the mediums being my own relatives, but
not having developed beyond the incipient stages, I decided to invite a
good physical medium to South Africa, and, from the high manner in
which the press and private individuals had spoken of Mr. Eglinton’s
powers as a medium, I determined to get him to leave England and
become a pioneer, that the most sceptical of sceptics might see and
judge for himself. He reached us unattended with confederates and
conjurors’ paraphernalia, and if "he alone, closely intimate as we are
with all his doings and movements, can deceive the senses of thirty
intelligent and sane persons under crucial tests, then the public must
acknowledge him to be gifted with superhuman power in this respect.
When in my own seance-room, and held on each side by members of my
own choosing, he has given such evidence of the presence of a spiritual
power, and of the identity of the spirits, that none but a man without
brains could say it was imposition. Without filling up your columns
with details, I will simply state what I know to be facts : —
1. Loud and powerful raps all over the room, governed by an intelli¬
gence having the attributes of a well-educated human being.
2. Spirit-lights floating all over the room, some in the form of a
beautiful Latin cross, a hexagonal star (or “ double trinity,” as the in¬
telligences call it), luminous hands of the friends of the sitters, flash
signals made by the lights, all appealing to sight instead of to the
hearing, as in the case of the spirit rap.
3. Spirit-hands, from that of a child of not a year old to that of a
well-grown man, often the small hands of my children being amongst
1 the number. These hands have grasped mine as firm and with as solid
! a grip as any man could give, and they have also given me the Masonic
i grip of the E.A. and Sublime Degree. As a Master Mason, I swear
[ this to be correct, and my brother Masons, Mr. J. B. Murrick and Mr.
i Hugh Fisher, who were sitting with me at the time, can testify to the
> same thing, as they received the same tests of the presence of a Masonic
! spirit. Mr. Eglinton, who was no Mason at the time, but who has since
) taken his first degree, of course knew nothing of our signs and signals ;
j therefore the test is most conclusive evidence of the identity of a
Masonic spirit being present at our meeting.
) 4. My musical box and other instruments have been wound up,
\ stopped, and set going at request; and it has also floated above our
heads, taken to different parts of the room as wished, and often struck
) the ceiling in its flight.
5. Solid brass curtain rings taken off the gas jet where I hung them,
j and linked on the arms of three of the sitters without their hands being
j loosened. (This is apparently, but not literally, matter passing through
) matter.)
( 7. Direct spirit-painting, drawings, and writing done in total darkness,
) the sitters preserving corners of the cards provided by us, upon which
| these wonders were produced, for purposes of recognition. Some are
( i Masonic emblems and allegorical, and the paintings and drawings are
) i beautiful and mathematically correct, and they have been pronounced by
] I competent judges to be true art works.
{ | 8. The direct spirit-voices speaking and instructing all of us in
) I matters relevant to the working of the circle, and answering philoso-
< I phical questions to the satisfaction of all. Two voices have spoken at
j ! once, and while the mouth of the medium was filled with water. The
) I teachings of “ Ernest ” are superior to all those I have heard from the
( 1 most eloquent ministers of our Anglican Church. We know he is good
| | and holy, for “ by the tree the fruit is known.”
) 9. Levitation and floating of Mr. Eglinton and another gentleman, a
| | private medium, over our heads and up to the ceiling, who at our request,
) i have hammered the wooden roof with their hands. They have floated
) ! horizontally and perpendicularly, both in the normal and trance
( j condition.
j j 10. Seeing phantom forms and faces, one of them being my darling
) | child “ Lily,” who showed herself at the gas-light above the heads of us,
| j and was plainly recognised by my wife and a gentleman, to whom the
j ] face turned, and imprinted a most audible and tangible kiss on his fore-
) | head, reminding him in a voice plainly heard by all that he had kissed
) i her as her body laid in the coffin—a fact which the medium was not
| acquainted with. She took a pair of gloves which she used to wear, and
| | held them to the flame of the gas until they slightly caught fire. Large
I spirit forms have floated all over the room and up to the ceiling, twelve
) I feet high, showing themselves quite distinctly by the aid of their own
( i wonderful lights. These manifestations are the nearest approaches to
| | the fully materialised forms which we hope to see in our subsequent
) | researches. Our plan has been to sit without the use of
l j the cabinet; and I am pleased to inform your readers that
j not once have we used it, the medium at all times, in both light and
dark seances, being seated by the side of us, his two hands in charge of
< responsible members of our committee—thus marking an advance in the
j history of materialisation.
) 11. Writing done in sealed boxes, with glass covers specially sealed
{ for the test, and once a match was put in one of them in full light before
j i the eyes of the sitters who were examining the box; and there it remains,
) | for scientists to take out of the box, sealed up as it is. Answers written
| | to questions put in sealed envelopes, the answers being pertinent to the
) i questions.
12. Objects taken from my dining-room to the seance-room, which
J i must have come through the walls (not literally, of course, no more than
j 1 a nail goes through a plank of wood, if driven in, the particles only becoming
1 i forced aside and condensed, allowing the nail to pass between the atoms).
) i Flowers strewn all over my drawing-room, and arranged in pretty
) | groups. Voices speaking to us when not holding stances, often in broad
] | daylight, and other spontaneous manifestations too numerous to
| mention.
) I 13. Healing by spirit control, and receiving directions quite in
| I accordance with medical science.
) | 14. Trance-speaking through the lips of the medium in various voices,
) | with action and idiomatic expressions suitable to each impersonation.
| | Often giving directions on matters of the most recondite and philo-
) | sophical subjects.
j | 15. Spirit hands appearing in the light, through a hole cut in the
] i table for the purpose, the medium’s hands being secured by two sitters.
| I boldly and emphatically assert and proclaim that what I have seen
5 | during the last five years, and especially of late, through the powers of
| j Mr. Eglinton, has proved to me and thirty others that those who have
| | died (so-called) have the power of making themselves known, by
) | appealing to our senses of sight, sound, and touch, and, above all, to
J j our intellectual faculties, by imploring us, for God and Christ’s sake, to
I listen to them, and judge whether they are not spirits or sublimated
) i beings. They emphatically assert and proclaim themselves to be such,
| and, under such absolute fraud-proof conditions which we impose, none
I i but a fool or a bigot could or dare deny the fact. I implore your
) I readers to practically investigate this subject, as we are doing; the best
J | method of investigation being, in our opinion, to invite a medium to a
| private house for a certain time, and by the gradual development of
] j the phenomena afford many opportunities for critical investigation,
j We shall have shortly concluded our committee’s researches, and I
i j will send to your readers, and to the public press here, the result of
TRk S^lfel^tTAtlg^D.
160
Oct. 1§, 1878.
their determination. I shall be most happy to let you hear of our further
progress; and, coming from such a distant land, I can only hope our
proceedings will be watched with interest by those who know both Mr.
Eglinton as a medium, and myself as a shrewd investigator.
Berks T. Hutchinson.
2, New-street, Cape Town, September 13th, 1878.
FACTS AND INFERENCES.
Sir,—In Mr. Hike’s letter, giving an account of the seizure of the
English mediums at Amsterdam, it is said—“Afterwards, on searching i
Mr. Williams’s hand-bag, a small tube, filled with very minute pieces
of slate-pencil, was found. These points fitted into a flat, thin fish- I
bone, or spring, serving probably to produce the phenomenon of writing
between sealed slates, if room enough is left to introduce the instru¬
ment. After finding the above-mentioned implements the two mediums j
looked perplexed.’’
As any one would understand from the foregoing statement that a flat
implement for holding the pencil points was actually found in the bag, it
i® only fair to the mediums to make known, what I have since heard
from Mr. Riko, that the “ flat, thin fishbone, or spring ” was matter of |
inference only, nothing of the kind being actually found in the bag.
They assumed that the bits of slate-pencil could only have been intended |
for fraudulent writing, and inferred that they must have been used by the j
aid of such an implement as that which appears in Mr. Riko’s state- j
ment as an actual fact. For my part, I am certain that nothing beyond !
the merest scrawl could possibly be written by a thin tool inserted
between carefully closed slates, and therefore I do not believe that the
trick was ever attempted by mediums in that way. In the face of the
writing on closed slates done by means of Slade, Monck, and Eglinton, j
it is a perfectly gratuitous assumption to take the bits of pencil found
in the possession of Mr. Rita (to whom it appears the hand-bag really j
belonged) as proofs of fraud. It is not every one who has such teeth as j
Slade, who used to bite off a morsel from the end of his slate-pencil !
whenever he required a convenient bit for writing. H. Wedgwood.
Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London.
Sir,—All true lovers of the scientific methods of research in the I
domain of psychological phenomena must have felt annoyed at the i
Williams-Rita scandal. Not only does it make us distrust one of our !
oldest and most favoured mediums, but it throws a doubt upon many |
manifestations at seances which were hitherto believed to be genuine.
You, sir, propose to do aw.ay with “ cabinet ” seances. But surely
this would be a mistake, as it would put an end to a very valuable j
method of obtaining spiritualistic phenomena. The true remedy should j
be not to do away with cabinet seances, but to make them truly test j
seances. No seance of this kind can be considered a test unless the
medium is previously searched. The policy of allowing him to enter j
the cabinet untrammelled, unexamined, and free to use his head, hands, i
and feet as he pleases, always seemed to me very doubtful, as it j
deliberately encourages fraud, and has no doubt often turned an honest
medium into an impostor. My proposal is that at all physical seances j
held for scientific objects the medium should be obliged to change
his clothes before the seance begins. The clothes, consisting of j
coloured shirt, trousers, waistcoat, and coat should be provided; at !
least two persons should be present while ho puts them on, and his |
own clothes should be locked in a box in the meantime. We have heard |
of spirit drapery being concealed under the collar of the so-called |
medium, so it is necessary that all the clothes should be changed to 1
make the test complete. Seances held with this precaution would be I
ten times more interesting, and the phenomena could hardly fail to be |
conclusive.
The Count de Bullet affirms that the spirits are in the habit of bringing
drapery, and that as this exhausts power he often provides the drapery I
himself. Is- it possible that the spirits also bring phosphoric oil and |
false beards ? And yet the one is as much a manufactured article as I
the other, although it does not seem to appeal to our sense of the j
ludicrous.
All this might be definitely set at rest by examining the mediums I
before, not after the seance, as it is not supposed that the spirits provide ]
the drapery and conceal it about the mediums before the seance is j
held. If the medium were examined in the way suggested, we should j
have conclusive proof that the spirit drapery was real (should any be |
seen), and the fact of its being found afterwards on the medium
would not prove his dishonesty. Fred. Barrett.
Leacroft, Staines, Sept. 28th, 1878.
Although Paris has, practically speaking, no thieves in a popu- j
lation of nearly two millions, it has little theology. The churches are j
usually empty and the theatres full on Sundays, unless some pageantry |
is on view at the former.
Spiritualism in the Midland Counties.—The Derby Psychological j
Society, under the presidency of Mr. J. J. Morse, has just issued a
circular setting forth a proposed formation of a “ Midland District j
Spiritualists’ Conference Committee.” The document says:—“ The
Derby Psychological Society, by a resolution passed at its ordinary
meeting on September 11th, resolved upon holding a Conference on !
Sunday, October 13th, in the Co-operative Assembly Rooms, Monk- !
street, Derby. The objects of the Conference are:—1st. To receive
reports, suggestions, and advice from the friends present, and to receive
a deputation from the Lancashire District Committee (Messrs. Johnson
and Hartley), who will detail the plans and methods adopted by that j
body. 2nd. To form a ‘ Conference Committee ’ for the Midland Coun- ]
ties, and devise such ways and means as the work presented may j
require.”
THE CAREER OF MR. GEORGE THOMPSON.
From the Leeds Mercury."
It is 'with much regret* that we have to-day to announce the death
of Mr. George Thompson, so well known in past years as one of the
most eloquent champions of the slave, and as a zealous advocate of the
cause of political and religious liberty. It was perhaps not generally
known amongst our townspeople that Mr. Thompson has for some
years lived in Leeds, enjoying that quiet retirement not only required
by his enfeebled health, but which he had so nobly earned by the
public labours of his early life.
Up to within a few years ago Mr. Thompson lived either in
Edinburgh or London, being a member at the latter place of the
Reform and other clubs. Being in feeble health in 1870, his cousin,
Mr. Edmund Donisthorpe, manufacturer, of Leeds, to whom he was
very much attached, advised him to remove to this town, and, acting
under his advice, he took up his residence at 30, Francis-street, Chapel-
town-road. About three years ago Mr. Donisthorpe died. This was a
severe blow to Mr. Thompson, but a still greater loss awaited him in
the death of his wife, which took place in April last. Since then Mr.
Thompson has declined rapidly, and after a week of great suffering he
died at a late hour on Monday night.
Mr. Thompson was born in 1804, in a house standing on the site
now occupied by St. George’s Hall, Liverpool. His father was a man
of cultured mind and literary attainments. Very early in life did
George Thompson manifest a peculiar talent for discussion. When
only a child he harangued a youthful audience from an inverted
barrel, and at the age of eighteen was, in London, a prominent
member of several metropolitan debating societies. He there attracted
the notice of some gentlemen connected with the Anti-Slavery Society,
and ere he reached the age of twenty-five he was known throughout
England as the eloquent champion of the slave.
Mr. Thompson was not educated at any public school or college.
He had, however, the advantage of possessing a gifted and talented
father, and what education he did acquire was obtained by his own
application to study. In the year 1831 he married Anne Erskine
Lorraine, daughter of the Rev. Richard Spy, and in 1834, after having
won for himself the name of “ the greatest natural orator of his day ”
(the verdict of his friend Lord Brougham), he proceeded to brave the
fierce tempest then raging in America against the noble band of men
and women engaged in the abolition of slavery. Here he made the
acquaintance, and became the friend and brother for life, of the
philanthropist William Lloyd Garrison. Side by side they did battle
for the cause of freedom, suffering daily from insult and injury. Mr.
Garrison kindly shared the lease of a house for Mr. Thompson’s
accommodation in the neighbourhood of Boston. They were con¬
stantly, whilst here, annoyed by the conduct of evil-disposed roughs
who haunted the vicinity, evidently meaning mischief. One morning
a gallows appeared erected before the street door, having two nooses
dangling from it, one for Mr. Garrison, the other for Mr. Thompson,
and bearing the superscription, “ By order of Judge Lynch.” Five
weeks after, a mob of five thousand persons congregated in front of
the anti-slavery office, Boston, for the purpose of dispersing one of
their meetings, and seizing Mr. Thompson bodily with the view of
giving him a coat of tar and feathers. Failing to lay hands on Mr.
Thompson, they seized Mr. Garrison as a substitute, but after a sharp
struggle he was rescued by the Mayor. The following is a copy of
the placard issued to incite the mob. It emanated from the office of
the Boston Commercial Gazette :—
“Tuompson, the Abolitionist.—That infamous foreign scandal,
Thompson, will hold forth this afternoon, at the Liberator Office,
Nos. 48-46, Washington-street. The present is a fair opportunity for
the friends of the Union to ‘ snake Thompson out.’ It will be a con¬
test between the Abolitionists and the friends of the Union. A purse
of one hundred dollars has been raised by a number of patriotic
citizens to reward the individual who shall first lay violent hands on
Thompson, so that he may be brought to the tar-kettle before dark.
Friends of the Union be vigilant.”
Whilst in America Mr. Thompson, in one of his speeches, made use
of the following sentences :—“ There isn’t a rood of earth on the globe
that is not more sanctified by the spirit of liberty than Republican
America. Nothing is contraband in this country but truth and honesty.”
The Rochester Daily Advertiser commented on these remarks in its
issue of February 25th, 1851, as follows :—“ Such are the vindictive
and scurrilous ravings of the arrant demagogue and demented aboli¬
tionist, George Thompson, than whom the scum of the bastard aris¬
tocracy of England does not furnish a more heartless or worthless
specimen. Are these epithets too strong? Can any expression be too
emphatic in describing that libel upon mankind, that vagrant, ill-
begotten apology for a man who can leave his own country and go
abroad to abuse, slander, vilify, and blackguard a nation and a people,
to whose sufferance and humanity he is indebted for not ha ving his ears
nailed to a pillory ? . . . For what other nation on the globe would
allow such a scamp to prowl amongst its people, slander its institu¬
tions, and excite to servile insurrections, without giving the culprit the
benefit of the pillory, the bastinado, or the bowstring? Here he gets
off by being pelted with rotten eggs, and burned in effigy. . . . This
gross and offensive libeller of our country and its institutions, this
coarse violator of the sacred rights of hospitality had better go back to
England or to Van Diemen’s Land, where he may find spirits congenial
to his own. . . . England has sent over many shabby fellows to this
country to abuse and insult us, but this Thompson is the shabbiest of
them all.”
On another occasion a number of ruffians surrounded Mr. Thompson’s
dwelling, and threatened to fire it if the “ foreign rascal ” who ven¬
tured to attack their institutions were not given up. Mr. Thompson
Oct. 18, 1878.
191
THE SPIRITUALIST.
made his escape in disguise, and lay all night hidden in a wood. The j | j
mob next threatened to tar and feather his infant children. In this, i) |
however, they failed, as in all their attempts. But at length, a price i (j
being set on his head, it was deemed best by Mr. Thompson’s friends j j |
that he should quit the shores of America for a time ; and with con- j) |
siderable difficulty he was smuggled on board a small sailing vessel, | (|
leaving behind his wife and three young children. Mrs. Thompson j > j
and the children followed shortly afterwards. During the whole of his | / j
stay in the States he had done noble service in denouncing slavery. To j j I
America, however, spite of this rude experience, Mr. Thompson returned j > i
twice more. On the second occasion he was created an LL.D., and was j / j
welcomed at one of the largest and most enthusiastic meetings ever held j (
at Freemont Hall. On the third occasion of his visiting the country, j > ]
Mr. Thompson witnessed the total overthrow of the iniquitous system j \ j
he had laboured so hard to abolish, and was an assistant at the cere- i J i
mony of the restoration of the national flag, he being the invited guest j j \
of the Secretary of War (the Hon. E. M. Stanton). Whilst he remained i ( i
in the United States he delivered between 200 and 300 public lectures, j ( j
besides innumerable shorter addresses in committees, conventions, i ( |
associations, &c. ill
Mr. Thompson was an able assistant of the workers for the abolition ! (j
of colonial slavery and the apprenticeship system. For his services on |) |
this question, Lord Brougham publicly tendered him his thanks in the i ( j
House of Lords, in a speech delivered on the 16th July, 1838. j (
Mr. Thompson next directed his attention to the state of British i |!
India ; and to the advocacy of the rights of the natives a number of j j i
years in his arduous life were devoted. In 1841 he entered the Court j j j
of Proprietors of East India Stock, and under the privileges of his new |) i
position vindicated the Rajah of Sattara, advocated the extension of (
the permanent revenue settlement of the Upper Provinces, and opposed ] j ]
the Afghan war. Toward’s the end of 1841 Mr. Thompson joined the j / j
crusade against the Corn Laws, and during two years he was a co- 11 I
worker and agitator with Cobden and Bright, and one of the association j j |
known as the Anti-Corn Law League. In 1842 he offered himself, with ! j ]
Lord Nugent, as a candidate for the borough of Southampton ; they j j I
were unsuccessful. In 1847, however, Mr. Thompson was returned to j j j
Parliament as member of the Tower Hamlets by an overwhelming j
majority, and retained his seat for a number of years.
For the promotion of every movement which he believed to be just,
and for the benefit of his fellow-men, Mr. Thompson was a most
uncompromising advocate. He was a strong supporter of peace, and
in 1854 delivered a series of eloquent lectures against the Crimean war.
Mr. Thompson has made two voyages to India in the interests of the
natives. He was the chosen representative of the late King of Delhi,
as well as the Rajah of Sattara. He returned from his last Indian
voyage greatly enfeebled in bodily health, and though able to appear
from time tp time as an advocate of Justice, Truth, and Freedom,
wherever and whenever he might be called upon to speak, he has
gradually failed since his last homeward voyage from the enfeebling
climate of Calcutta.
As an orator the deceased was particularly fervid and eloquent, and
his speeches in connection with the emancipation of slavery will long
be remembered. In 1863 a soiree was given in his honour at the
Whittington Club, London, and an address was presented to him in j
recognition of his long and earnest services in the causes of negro j
emancipation, and of commercial, political, and social reform. In the j
course ©f an eloquent speech which he made on that occasion, Mr. i
Thompson said—“In common with other public men, the principles j
which have governed me have often been greatly misunderstood, or, at i
the least, greatly misrepresented. Let me say, then, once for all, in j
the presence of Him who reads all hearts, and for the satisfaction and
assurance of those who may come after me, that I have never in a ]
single act of my public life been decided in my course by any mer- j.
icenary feeling, or any consideration of pecuniary reward. At the j (
commencement of my public career I was, if not without a purpose, i)
certainly without a plan. My purpose, even from my boyhood, was to i)
employ any ability with which God had endowed me for the advance- j (
ment of the happiness, and especially the freedom, of mankind. This i |
purpose I was first enabled to carry out in connection with the j)
cause so prominently placed at the heading of the address before me— i \
that of negro emancipation. I cannot remember the time when my j j
heart was not deeply penetrated with a sense of the injustice and i |
wrong done to the negro race by the prosecution of the African slave i (
trade, and the maintenance, in the British colonies, of the un-Christian j j
and inhuman institution of slavery. In my infancy I had listened to j (
the recital by my father of the horrible scenes common on board slave j (
ships during the ‘ middle passage,’ and had conceived a rooted detes- j j
tation of the accursed traffic. ... In the year 1828, when I was i (
twenty-four years of age, I was associated with a number of young | j
men who met weekly at the house of a gentleman in the City for the |)
purpose of improving themselves by the discussion, in the way of j (
debate, of questions of public interest. Slavery was one of these ques- j j
tions, the disputants advocating respectively measures of immediate or j)
gradual emancipation. Our debate continued through eleven nights, jj
and ended in the adoption of a memorial to Lord Bathurst, who was j (
at the time Secretary for the Colonies, praying for the introduction of 1J
a Bill into Parliament for the abolition of negro slavery.” I (
Mr. Thompson’s last appearance in public was made at the Leeds i J
Town Hall on the 21st of January, 1876, at a meeting held for the i)
purpose of considering the instructions recently issued by the Com- i (
missioners of the Admiralty with regard to fugitive slaves. Mr. 11
Thompson, who appeared to be in a state of physical exhaustion and i)
feebleness, seconded a resolution moved by Alderman Barran to the | (
effect that the new Admiralty instructions to naval officers respecting j)
fugitive slaves were at variance with the past traditions and most ! \
cherished convictions of the English people. In the course of his i (
speech he said his principles on the question of slavery were very
simple. He denied as a blasphemy the doctrine that man could hold
property in man ; that a man—a dying man—but the equal of every
other man, could own a man, and reduce him from the lofty stature of
a moral being to a mere thing, was as philosophically impossible as it
was atheistical in idea. ... It would be a glorious day for England
when she laid it down as law—immutable, unchangeable, and eternal,
so far as this world was concerned—that she should have no com¬
plicity in compromising with slavery in any of its forms. They had
something better than tradition to guide them. First, they had an
express divine law. What did it say ? “ Thou shalt not return unto
his master the slave that hath escaped unto, thee.” Then they had
also the law of the New Testament—“ All things that ye would that
men should do unto you do ye so even unto them.” The idea of a
British vessel going into so-called territorial waters, and spurning
from her side a panting slave, running away from atheists who had
blasphemously called him a slave, was horrible to contemplate. Our
duty was simply to give refuge and protection to the slave, and let
others reconcile their laws if they could with our conduct. The reso¬
lution he had to second scarcely went far enough for him. He cared
nothing for tradition—nothing for precedent; the time was come for
England to say, “ No complicity with slavery.” Go into the slave¬
holders’ waters if they would let them. Keep away if they were dis¬
liked ; take and incur all the damages, but let them stand by their
principles.
The following letter respecting the deceased was received two years
ago by a Leeds citizen from the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P.-
“ I thank you for your letter, though its contents are sad.
“ I am grieved to hear of the feeble condition of my old friend
George Thompson. Like most of us, he will have to regret some,
perhaps many, wasted opportunities ; hut I hope the remembrance of
noble labours in many noble causes will afford him some consolation
in his declining days.
“ 1 have known him from the beginning of his career, and have
never known him employ his great powers of speech for an unworthy
object.
“The negro—the once bread-taxed Englishman—the once un¬
enfranchised artisan—the oppressed and suffering everywhere—owe
much to him. His eloquent tongue has been their advocate ; and so
far as right has triumphed during the past forty years, he has aided
to secure the triumph. I honour him greatly, and wish I could pay
him a visit to tell him how strong is the sympathy I feel for him.”
During the years of his seclusion from public life, the deceased was
a devoted student of the best literature. He mastered the contents
of every book of worth which fell in his way, and took a deep interest
in the affairs of the nation—political, social, and moral. Nor did his
interest cease here, but extended to the Continent, and, in fact, to the
whole world. On the details of the Franco-Prussian war he was a
complete referee.
MEMORIES.
Lines dictated under some control by one not normally poetical:—
i.
As from their long and dreary ocean-flight
Over the desolate bosom of the main
Spring’s winged harbingers return again,
And by their old beloved homes alight,
Hoping, as when in summer-season bright
They fled, and left them without vent or stain
Of storm or shower, that so they may remain ;
But by wild winter’s fierce unpitying might
Find but their wreck all faded, crush’d, and torn ;
So to our youthful days we oft return,
And find those tender bowers all forlorn,
And thoughts that erewhile made our bosoms burn,
Like withered nests ’mongst many a barren thorn,
Warn us how sad life’s lessons were to learn,
u,
Behold! how desolate before—behind—
And far around—Palmyra’s ruined fane
Stands in the silence of the Syrian plain :
' A fane whose deity, like a passing wind,
Hath with its worship faded from the mind.
A grim hyena and her brood retain
The place whence oracles once spoke—in vain.
Dull, bitter weeds, in rank profusion twined,
O’er the once holy altar cling and creep;
So memories that once were all divine
Within the heart’s dark cavern buried deep,
Feel the god vanish’d from the inmost shrine—
The altar choked—its worship now no more,
And we left lonely on the unknown shore.
The Pacific Christian Advocate narrates that John Messenger, of
Hillsboro, fell and was seriously injured, but not fatally, as he at first
supposed. The Advocate says: “ He states the mysterious fact that at
the instant of his fall his sister, who had died two or three weeks before,
appeared before him, and plainly said to him, ‘ You are badly hurt, but
you can’t come to where I am yet.’ ”
192
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. ] 8, 1878.
HOMCEOPATHY AND SPIRITUALISM.
The question of your correspondent “ B.” regarding
Homoeopathy and Spiritualism in your paper of last week
may, I think, be thus answered.
Remedial medicine must ever remain an Art, and not a
Science, so long as the secret of life, both healthy and
diseased, remains unravelled. We have not the least know¬
ledge of the ultimate and intimate process in the body by
which any medicinal agent produces its results ; we only know
what those results are; we register them mentally side by
side with the diseased actions for which the agent was
successfully administered, and we call that experience, but
not science. We know no more how an ounce of Epsom salts
produces purging of the bowels than we know how an
infinitesimal dose of colocynth or arsenic stops diarrhoea. A
favourite question of the scorners of homoeopathy is fl How
can the three-hundreth part of a drop of arsenicum tincture
arrest colic and excessive action of the bowels ?” This may
be answered, u When you tell me how an ounce of salts pro¬
duces the said colic and excessive action, I will tell you how
the arsenicum arrests them.” Neither knows anything about
the ultimate action of the body in the cause or cure in suchcase,
and a great deal of silly joking about homoeopathy might
thus be spared. Even the most powerful microscope has -
failed to detect the action of the ultimate molecules of the
tissues involved in the action of medicines.
The same microscope, however, aided by other methods
of investigation, has brought scientists to a theory'that
there are ultimate molecules which receive the impression
of external agents and react upon them, and that, there¬
fore, medicinal agents act specially on such molecules—
molecules so small as to evade optical instruments, and be,
as it were, mathematical points. Still remains unsolved
the causa causans for this receptivity and reaction. That
profound physiologist as well as Spiritualist, Swedenborg,
maintains that spirit, being the promulgator and maintainer
of all material action, is itself the cause in question; and
we might stop here and say that spiritual action which gives
the medicine the power to excite the receptivity of the mole¬
cules, also gives those molecules the power of reacting upon
it, and producing the remedial result. This, however, would
be basing the whole matter on a theory of the scientists and
an assertion of Swedenborg; and in this way we are again
driven to the conclusion that we know nothing certain about
the immediate action of medicines, and that all medicine,
therefore, is empirical.. Meantime a Spiritualist, backed
by Swedenborg’s authority, may readily accept as not only
possible, but highly probable, the certain action of the
infinitesimal doses so scorned by those who have never j
taken the trouble to ascertain by experiment whether they j
have such action. Here is a substance so subdivided as to
be impalpable to taste and smell, the three-millionth part j
of a grain, we will say, which, nevertheless, will give speedy
relief to an inflamed throat, and that constantly, the cir¬
cumstances being the same ; is it more improbable that this |
should cure a molecular disturbance in the tissues of the j
throat than that a strong solution of alum or some other
astringent should ? One would rather affirm that, taking j
the minute subdivision of the medicine into account, it j
would be more certain to deal with the minute activity |
of the molecules, wherein the diseased process really is, than j
a deluge of strongly impregnated water is likely 'to do.
Both remedies may relieve; but unquestionably, as a vast j
experience of ninety years all over Europe has proved, the
infinitesimal homoeopathy fulfils much more completely the |
desideratum so dwelt upon by Hippocrates in a cure, that j
it should be made'^c^o, certe, et jucunde.” One who at- |
tributes to spirit the organisation and function of all he sees j
around him, will not be slow to comprehend that an j
almighty subtle agent such as spirit is, pervading all matter,
should act through matter so attenuated as to be almost jj
itself spiritual; and so the homoeopathic treatment of disease j
would, one would say, be acceptable to a Spiritualist on that
score. But experience, which, after all, is the real test and j
recommendation of a curative method, comes in aid of the j
spiritual theory. The old method has its successes, but j
neither so certain nor so pleasantly effected as those by j
homoeopathy. And I say this as one who is no special ^
homoeopath, but has long used all methods which he con¬
scientiously believed could aid the sick and suffering.
The question of “ like curing like,” which is the founda¬
tion maxim of homoeopathy, is included in the above argu¬
ments ; but it is not so fiercely assailed by opponents as the in¬
finitesimal doses. In fact, the opposite school has adopted the
maxim in not a few instances, and even some professed
homoeopaths give nasty medicine on the u like cures like ”
rule ; they adopt the rule, but cannot swallow the doses,
small as they are. Iatros.
SUBJECTIVE OR OBJECTIVE?
Sir Charles Isham forwards us the following informa¬
tion:—“With regard to Mr. Cogle and the straw hat, a
lady and her pupil, staying with me, told me with astonish¬
ment, a few days before the account of the above appeared,
that they had just seen on their way down stairs, late in the
day, three bright stars, fully as large as a shilling, slowly
emerge one after another from the tail of a white dog which
was accompanying them, and sitting on the floor scratching.
The stars disappeared in a wardrobe two or three feet dis¬
tant. They further remarked that the last one was rather
the largest, and a little ragged at the edges.”
If the stars were not objective realities, this appears to be
a curious case of synchronous subjective vision.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Fritz.—We decline to publish any anonymous letters about the Williams-
Rita matter. Where individual character is concerned, let every writer
print his name and address.
Colonel Bundy (Chicago).—So far as we know, the National Association of
Spiritualists has taken no notice in any way of your dealings with Messrs.
Bastian and Taylor, and you have most likely been misinformed. The
only way they could have considered them without our knowledge, and the
knowledge of the Council and theif constituents, would have been in
Committee without subsequently reporting it to the Council. If anybody
on the Council looks through the Committee books, and finds any official
resolution about you in them, a permanent vote of censure stands against
him if he makes the minute public. This illegitimate way of doing
public business in secret is un-English, and cannot last.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
G-iven through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Ffve Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
Contains, among other standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M A. (Oxon).”
The Spintualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Jted Edges.
SPIRITUALISM,
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
, Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagram!)
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Oct. 18, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEAROHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s,
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BT ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . , .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health . . . . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence , . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . .
Morning Lectures . . . . •
a d.
• 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 5 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History ot American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. ..... . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind'; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18 6
The Koran;- commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“ As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-coneeived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions With
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We Will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that tjie whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and *hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Rost Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Charter I The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III ^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations In England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proof < of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII,—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr, C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxtnoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss KisUngbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX ^Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd.- R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter xVl Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter xYlI The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt-
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections tn
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe —James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chaptep. XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s.
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
iii
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“ M.A. ' (OXON), ’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
synopsis op contents.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
l.-^That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Niff ft!.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr, James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Heiisleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown'to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E' idence of Hon. K. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Poftugdese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame.Biavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
lit From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writin ;
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.E.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss ICislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monek were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters tdd ’essed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Proiessor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those Who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Riehmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the tranee-me-
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta’’—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmhrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Bunie—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Ortht dox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. B arke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Os.on."
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (EnnesfaUen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzi;;) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald M as soy—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritnai.sm
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Eusse,
Wallace, F R.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEBTIN8S,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
Oct. 18, 1878.
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATUBE DEATH BY NATURAL MEAN'S. 
T ORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is teally the foundation
Upon which ail their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
FNO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO-
KATIN G B EVERAGH, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth centmy
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific wlfich may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1377.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
tTNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
JL “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
NO’S" FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes; —
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.” "
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN TflE WORLD OOGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the j uices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness Of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  ,  -  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
E
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very mucli pleased
withyour FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
1 never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
crless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
nut very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
{Sole Agent ror Paris-PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wohblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays arid Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk's account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
' From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
' From the British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.’’
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the dally Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection Of verses and prose essays of unequa 1
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works, the Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally conuc, but
neVer vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irate member cf the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,'" but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 8d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also he had bound in bait
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 8d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the. Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAP1EK III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be. Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental: Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnbt all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s JExtatics—Visions of the S tirituai
World.
CHAPTER VHI: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of j’nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:— Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—^Predictions of various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subieet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrart—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion-
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyanee, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-^Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing “Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, Lend m. and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Londc c, E.C.
