Registered as a Newspaper,
#lb,csf rrmitK^b btilj Spintwalism m #nat §nfam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St, Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Llndenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Rugsell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 265. (VOL. XL—No. 12.) LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The National Association of Spiritualists  ... 133
Angelic Cure of Souls ...    134
The Indian Famine and its Psychological Causes  135
A Devil-Dance in India   137
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism:—
A Trance Address by Mr. Colville—Meeting of the
Council '     ..v ...  137
Mr. Leslie Stephen on Spiritualism. By William White 138
A Remarkable Private Seance. By Edward T. Bennett... 138
Spiritual Reasons for Earthly Sufferings. A Spirit Mes¬
sage given through Mrs. Woodforde’s Mediumship ... 139
PoetryThe Spiritual World—A Prayer  140
Correspondence: — Materialism and Metaphysics — A
Seance in Paris—Funeral Reform—Spirit Identity—
The Healing Powers of Mesmerism—Mesmerism at
• Lourdes—Mr. Morse’s Annual Soiree—The Origin of
Man ...      ... 140
The Spirit’s Mode of Existence 142
Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage ...  % ... ... 143
Spiritualism in Ulverston ...   143
Answers to Correspondents  „.  144
Paragraphs:—Death Warnings, 139; Faith and Know¬
ledge, 142; A Spiritualistic Book, 143 ; Disorderly
Spirits, 143; Prayers for Rain, 144; French and
British Law about Clairvoyance 144
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
Jl oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists In all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;vHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the.
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Orderof St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Win. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies. D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,-M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Pauls-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G-. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio,_ Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is, The Spiritualist Newspaper B.anoh Office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for September, 1877.
Wednesday, 5th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Saturday, Sth.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 pm,
„ „ Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
Tuesday, Wth.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.ra.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, lifh.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 15th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Friday, ‘list.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, Tlnd.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, 26th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 26th.—Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 29th —Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
 H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
1$, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d,; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
’ E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Caxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Its work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., &c., post free 13 stamps.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co,, Patentees.
Show Rooms :—18, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Price from £3 to £9 10#.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851^1
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.O
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
  FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road. 
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be*
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5,30. Evening special at 7.30,
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157. Bute-road, Cardiff, Ad- ,
‘ d.ioss, G. Sad'.cr, 15”. Buf:*rbti l, Ca: J.- ’.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritudlisli
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. B. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston Lane, Dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts afl'ccting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have1 the privilege of attending the public seances Oi
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on apphcation to the
honorary secretary. :
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .'—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, 'HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lnnches from Daily Bill of Fare,
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince's Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
Of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism, doth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Jnst published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,--
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 21, 1877.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Colder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents,
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfteld, Didsbury, Manchester,
Coleman, Benjatnin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-stroet, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall,21, Green-street, Grosvonor-square, W.
H 'nywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E-.C. ■ - • -• '
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place. W.
Kogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchlcv.N.
Bpeer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alcxandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-placo, Hyde-park, VV.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Ncwcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Kichmond Hill,
Blnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. If., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.O.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe,N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fltton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North. Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. VV. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson,Rose-villa, Church-end,Finchley, N.
Strhwbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
8trawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square,'West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
VVithall, Miss II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Oalder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors,
J, H. Andre, Esq, H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz,- President de PUnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Cpl. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq., M.D..Union Springs,CayugaCo.,New York,U.S.A.
Le Comtfe de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gioucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, MOntgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut; Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W, Day.'Esq., 9. Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'HailoCk, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. HallOck, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Jlamiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. PueL-73,-Boulevard Beaumarchais,- Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet. Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
AUied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary'—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool."
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—II. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola.. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senbr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarlta. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
pRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
VT will be published as soon as Mrs. W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND'THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
ORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trtjbner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Hi* Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Bussia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russia, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Banca Fenzi. Florence, Italy,
err Constantin Delhaz, Singerstrasse No. 7j Vienna, Italy.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey, U.S.A.
Airs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Air. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Alelbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., AI.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
AI. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson,Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gled9tanes;Esq., Merignae, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M, de Bassompierte, 285, Chaussce St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of- the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Oolby And Rich. London Spirit-
ualist Office. 
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
rriHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
JL describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London. ______
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sotiiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris, Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MR. J. AV. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to' 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honord,
Paris.
Ip "VV. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. —PROFESSOR
V.V ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hiil,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.C.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &o. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
IVTISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
JLvJL 71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
MR. J. • HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develope mediums.
PSYCHOMETRY.—For delineation of cha¬
racter aud information on development consult (if by
letter enclose photo aud 10s. 6d. as fee) Mr. J. Skipsey, Ash-
ington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER is about to form a
Spiritual Circle for the higher forms of mental mani¬
festations, to be held weekly,jand the number of sitters limited.
Those who wish to join these regular seances are requested to
correspond with Mr. Fletcher, 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury,
W.C.
R. J. COATES, the mesmerist, is about to
IvJL visit Ireland, calling at Belfast, Dublin, Cork, and
intermediate places en route. He will undertake the treat¬
ment of patients directly or under medical supervision; also
give sittings for the development of clairvoyance. Persons
desiring a visit will please write him at his address, 12, Lime-
street, Liverpool.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP SPIRIT¬
UALISTS.
lyrUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
!V-M_ eight-aired, and in good condition, to be RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to be disposed of. Application to be made at once to the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800 for Is., post free, or 500for Is. G<7., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should bo multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
The food that we live on. in-
Btructive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
rlpl&p tl tttfo tl jljmjitttrft&ft*
Volume Eleven. Number Twelve.
LONDON, FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 21st, 1877.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. j j
The attacks made by the ignorant at the beginning of this i 11
year, upon some of the persons in whose presence genuine 111
and well-tested psychological phenomena are evolved, threw 11 j
so much work, expense, and responsibility upon those who I j
do most of the public business connected with Spiritualism ' j : j
in London, that during the past few months everybody has | I
been glad of a rest. The National Association of Spiritualists 11 j
has consequently been merely vegetating of late, and ! j |
although there are some symptoms of returning animation, j I
it is neither likely nor under the circumstances desirable that j (
much will be attempted before the winter begins. But some I j j
of its members begin to see clearly that to retain its influence j j
in the movement, it must before long lay down a programme j |
of useful work to be executed during the winter season. j jj
All along it has acted upon the healthy principle of making j
itself strong at home, rather than to fritter away its energy | j
while it was weak at headquarters. The result is that it jj
possesses a most valuable library, and handsome reading-rooms j j
and premises, well furnished, with the whole establishment j
free from debt. It has established order in a movement in j j;
which all was previously anarchy and disorder; it has j
substituted elected for self-appointed public men, and j
has greatly increased the freedom of Spiritualists, be- j
cause now we can vote for our own representatives, ex- i
pend our own funds, lay down our own programme of j
public action, and have our own accounts properly audited j j
and published. If anybody desires to present gifts or be- j
quests, he can now give them to a public institution in j |
which they become public property, and are preserved j j
for national use. This is good work to have accom- j
plished in three years. In America they have failed to j
establish a national organisation, because after an excel- j
lent managing body was elected, that body, instead of j
going to work, opening rooms, and presenting so many ad- j
vantages to American Spiritualists that they could not help j
supporting it, appealed to the popular suffrage in small j
localities as to its future steps. Thus was the strength of j
the nucleus frittered away ; months of time were lost, and j
those who can pull down, but are not endowed with the I j
nobler power of building up, were allowed to deter from a j
useful course of action those who did not agree with them, j
In consequence of the American committee inaugurating j
small talks instead of at once beginning useful work, j
Spiritualism in America is a rope of sand, almost powerless i
for offence or defence, although there are far more Spiritu- j
alists in that country than in Great Britain. j
What work should the British National Association of j
Spiritualists next undertake ? One part of its forthcoming j
programme might be that, as it possesses a well founded j j
central establishment, it will perform for Spiritualists all j
over the world the historical duty of collecting and storing j
upon its premises all the public records of the movement, j j
all the new books, and all the periodicals, in whatever j
country they may be printed. A judiciously worded printed j j
circular to private individuals, and letters sent to all the j
periodicals to make the public aware of this programme, I j
would secure the presentation of a single copy of all new j j
works to the library, since both authors and Spiritualists at j j
large would be glad of such a public record office. When j j
we suggested this plan some months ago, some of the con- | j
tinental Spiritualist periodicals displayed much interest in j
it, and a gentleman in Germany entered his name as an j |
ordinary member of the Association, on the ground that j j
such work ought to be encouraged by foreign Spiritualists; j)
but nothing was done at headquarters. j 1
On entering almost any good public library in the king- j (
dom, the first thing to which the reader gives his attention j j
is the catalogue. The National Association of Spiritualists ij
has no catalogue for public use, so the reader has to search
among the books themselves—an imperfect and troublesome
means of reference. Supposing the total number of the
books to be five hundred, a catalogue could have been
drawn up with ease in two or three weeks, had the Council
given instructions to the staff to do the work. Another thing
common in public libraries is a “ recommendation book,”
in which readers name works they think ought to be in
the library, and reference to this book is a great guide
to the managers in making them aware of the public
wants. Such a book should have been on the table of
the library of the National Association of Spiritualists
years ago. There should also be a published list, of impor¬
tant books required for the library but which the managers
have no funds to purchase, that those who possess copies
might have an opportunity of presenting them ; but there is
no such list. The incidental mention a few weeks ago of a
very few books wanted in the library has just resulted in
the generous presentation to it by Madame Blavatsky of a
complete set of the works of Andrew Jackson Davis; but as
regards ninety-nine per cent, of the required books, nobody
has had an opportunity of presenting them, because no in¬
formation has been given to the public that they are not
already in the library. A return of the number of books
in the library, and their value, also a stock account showing
the property possessed by the Association, ought to be passed
by the finance committee every month, and these “ assets ”
reported to the Council; the financial position of the Asso¬
ciation would thus be shown every month to be very much
better than it is now regularly represented to be, and this
would have its influence upon intending new members, and
upon non-Spiritualists who see chance numbers of our
periodicals. Sometimes it is said that nothing can be done
towards improving the library, because just now there are no
funds available for the purpose, but the carrying out of
nearly all the preceding suggestions to raise the library to
the level of those common throughout the country, will cost
nothing ; besides, there never will be any funds for the pur¬
pose until it is seen that somebody has the work of perfecting
the library heartily in hand. Probably the reason these
simple and ordinary things have not been done long ago, is
that the man has not yet appeared who has resolved that
come what will, the library shall be perfected; once let a
man appear who is determined to do the work, he will find
many to support him whose minds and time are now too
much engaged in other directions to allow them to do this
j work efficiently.
The daily papers should lie on the tables of the reading-
room; chess-boards, and other attractions should be fur¬
nished. Such a line of action would be remunerative,
because of the more numerous visitors it would draw. The
British Museum reading-room is also in Great Russell-
street, and several of its readers are likewise members of
the National Association of Spiritualists ; consequently,
were there a good news-room on the premises of the latter
body, Spiritualistic readers would bring non-Spiritualistic
readers to the premises, the interest of the latter would
be awakened, and the result a gradual influx of new
members. Besides, a good news-rooom is a public want
in the locality, so would prove an attraction to the whole
neighbourhood. The annual financial loss to the National
Association by the non-establishment of a good general
reading-room and of a travelling library is something con¬
siderable. If the Association could say to Birmingham, or
any other such town—“ Directly you give us fifty members,
we will send you one of our boxes of fifty books every three
months, for you to pass on to the next town on our list at
the end of that time, when we will send you a fresh one”—the
required new members would soon be forthcoming. At
134
Sept. 21,1877.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
present this source of income is eut off. Although funds are j
required to start a travelling library, the cost for beginning j
would be but small, but nobody is likely to furnish the !
sum required until some signs of life and activity become
visible in connection with this department of the National
Association. It is a department which, if well worked, can j
gain great reputation for itself, for upon its efficient action |
depends the filing of a perfect series of historical records of j
the progress of the Spiritualistic movement throughout the j
world. If it does not perform its historical functions with j
efficiency, the loss in future years will be irreparable. For j
instance, during the short existence of the National Associa- j
tion, a Spiritualistic weekly newspaper has lived and died in j
Australia, and an excellent Spiritualistic periodical for chil- j
dren has lived and died in Chicago. Sets have not been |
filed in the Library of the National Association, nor any
endeavour made to obtain them by purchase or otherwise,
and we doubt whether anybody on the Council has felt it to
be a public duty to obtain and preserve public records such
as these in a great national institution. History, however,
will pronounce its verdict upon such neglect, and will say—
((In those days some of our public men had great powers
and possibilities in their hands, but they were not equal to
the occasion, consequently such-and-such records connected
with the early history of Spiritualism have been lost to the ]
world for ever.” j
A programme for the year could be suggested for other |
departments of the National Association of Spiritualists, but j
for want of more space in this number of The Spiritualist^ !
we defer the consideration of other points.
ANGELIC CURE OF SOULS. | j
The following portion of an oration delivered in the trance j
state by Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan-Richmond is quoted from j
the Banner of Light:— j
The souls which go down in shame sometimes before the j
vision of man have still a redeeming trait, and some point j
of unselfishness, some wish to rise; and the spirits who j
minister in the sphere of healing—the first stage of the I
sphere of beneficence—receive them as you would receive j
soldiers from the battle-field, as you would receive a man !
in the street who has fallen from his horse, or who, wrecked
upon the sea, is deprived for the time being of raiment and |
shelter. So upon life’s sea, souls passing out into eternity, I
shipwrecked morally and spiritually, but having something |
to cling to in the Divine thought that aspires to something j
higher, they are received, and the process of spiritual healing j j
begins. They are not received as into judgment; they i |
are not taken before court and jury, that perhaps, have j j
sent them there: they are not treated as criminals, for the very | |
reason that the punishment of criminals in certain stages S I
of criminal disease aggravates instead of cures. You do not ! !
treat a patient in fever, if you are wise, by augmenting the j
disease. You do not stab a man who is already mortally |
wounded. You do not, when a person is in delirium, add j
intensity to that state, and expect to cure him. The criminal j
has his crime upon him. He goes out with it stamped upon |
his outward life. If the first thing he saw were judge and (
jury confronting him in the world of souls, he would be
driven back to that darker sphere that we have referred to.
He is received first, and there is no sign or token given of
his malady. The spirit having charge understands this. The j
soul appointed to receive the spirit is silent, and makes no |||
sign. It receives him as though there were nothing in his j |
nature to repel. He is placed in a position of ease and | ]
rest mentally. He is not confronted with his victim at iji
first; he is not strong enough. He is not upbraided with jjj
his sin ; he is not able to bear it without being rebellious. |)|
He is received, and when the kindness that is shown him ! j j
shall have thawed away all the corroding lines of crime and |(|
care, and by its very persistence shall have shown the spirit jji
that there is no judgment save that which comes from within, I j j
then the soul that is sick becomes its own more positive j u
accuser. Even then that must be checked, or the violence 1)1
of the repentance and the severity of self-judgment drives I j
the spirit to despair.
The wisdpm of ministering to souls thatare thus afflicted S»t
outweighs all that you bestow on physical maladies in
earthly life. These spirits must be led to repentance; must
not be stung to madness or despair; but by the falling of the
waters of love, by the sunlight that is not too suddenly
turned upon them, made to feel that there is still hope. The
criminal entering spirit-life may behold, after a time, an
angel mother bending above—not at first; the shock would
be too sudden. For how can a soul accused of men, and
sent into spiritual existence because of a malady of the
moral nature, meet face to face the most loved object on
earth ? Not at first. But after some stranger friend has
ministered unto and soothed the spirit—-guided the way—
then the voice and mind and spirit most healing, that will
bring back the childhood memories, that will uplift the
spirit gradually to repentance and hope, is summoned to
appear beside the soul that enters that sphere of healing.
Then gradually the spirit itself grows stronger, grows
stronger also for self-accusation; and when the condemna¬
tion and research assume a point that only the soul itself
can bear, every other spirit withdraws, leaving that soul
alone with its own meditations. Then from mother, child,
sister, friend, or wise and beneficent counsellor, comes the
first voice of encouragement, when the spirit has purged
itself of the crime, drowned its grief and crime in tears of
repentance, washed away the stain of human blood or folly.
Then there comes the gradual soothing of pain. It is not
simply by ministering to this soul, but it comes in another
form. The sin-sick soul that is repentant is shown another
soul greater in suffering than itself—is introduced without
being aware of it into the presence of some spirit in greater
agony. The impulse to speak to that soul, to minister in
some way to the suffering, to point out that he or she also
has suffered, is the first impulse upon which the spirit rises
one degree into healthfulness and strength. Then the first-
mentioned spirit becomes a ministrant also in the sphere of
beneficence. Have you ever seen a soldier on a battle-field,
himself wounded, bearing off a comrade that was more
nearly mortally wounded than he, because dear to him, or
because engaged in the same conflict; or better still, bearing
off a fallen foe ? Have you ever seen in the conflict of life,
when the great burden of grief and sorrow was upon one
man, or more frequently (you will pardon us) one woman—
have you ever seen that woman, rising up out of her own
affliction and grief, to minister to some one in greater
sorrow, and how the anguish has faded from her face because
she could minister to another in greater suffering ? Such is
the sphere of healing in the sphere of beneficence. Such is
the soul work that goes on vanquishing its own trouble by
assisting others to rise.
No morbid corners, in which the criminal sits day after
day, to pine and ponder over his darkened fate. No solitary
dungeon cells, in which the soul is condemned to sit in
punishment for a single offence, without opportunity to aid
another. No healing of moral wounds by allowing the sores
to fester and become corrupted with gangrene. No piercing
of the wound that is well-nigh fatal, by any other lance than
that of kindness and justice tempered by mercy. Has it not
entered your hearts, when at some chosen and appointed
hour of happiness in life, when perhaps the supreme moment
of your joy of existence had risen—that selfish joy that
comes from selfish love or fruition of love—there has risen
up in the family or in the social circle some great crying
agony, to cast aside your own joy to minister to another’s
woe ? Then is when you enter the sphere of beneficence.
Every soul, fortunately, that we are aware of in average
life, experiences this. It is only the monster, the exception
and that proves the rule—that enters the sphere of total
selfishness and darkness for the time being. We do not
wonder, parenthetically speaking, however, that in that first
darkened sphere the shapes assume the shapes of monster
wild beasts and dragons of terror, for you do know that these
things that are called passions in the human heart, when
they run riot become as beasts of prey, tearing away the
very life of the spirit. But, as we say, that is the excep¬
tion, fortunately. There are souls which pass from earthly
life who are not corrupted with wickedness, but neverthe¬
less have somewhat of it in their natures. Their first lesson
in the sphere of beneficence is to minister to some other
soul, and thereby rise from their elsewise darkened states.
Sept. 21, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
135
Oh, the great moral healing that is to go on in the world! | I
And who are these that cure the souls that are sick, and the |||
hearts that are faint, and the eyes that are blind, and the j|
spiritual bodies that will not perform their work aright ? The m
church-going bell chimes every Sabbath day, and the wor- |||
shippers in gay attire, or with pleasant worldly faces, pass to j< j
their appointed worship ; and the man of God, or the teacher, | j j
speaks words that please the mind, and allure the heart, and |)|
uplift the intellectual sentiments of the assembly, and all K|
places of modern worship become pleasant places of intellec- | j j
tual and aesthetic enjoyment during the hours allotted to m
praise. But who goes beneath, finds out the sin-sick soul, re]
cares for and ministers to yonder darkened one in the corner, j)!
or to the very soul that has a smiling outward face, but \\J
within is full of sorrow and pain ? Who does this, in all the |( I
great circles of self-appointed or man-appointed spiritual j j
healers ? We say that the man of God must be a healer as || | .
well as a teacher. Christ, who healed the bodies of men, k|
and who taught their souls, also healed their spirits. The j
Master, whose example they are enjoined to follow, visited |
the sin-sick soul as well and more frequently than the bruised j
and wounded body. I
Let us have spiritual healing. Teaching is well, but heal- || j
ing comes first. The sick man cannot be taught how to re- j
main well until he first is restored from his malady. You j j
do not reprimand him for the cholera or fever until he re- j j
recovers from it. Let us have those who will heal the morally | I
infirm before they upbraid them; who will bind up the malady j j
and strive to cure it before they teach the prevention of it. j j
The prevention may be taught to those who are still com- |
paratively well, but for those who are sick let us have the |
merciful healing of kindly physicians, skilled in all the subtle j
lore of the human spirit and its manifold maladies. Let us j
have those who are clairvoyant of mind ; let us have those j
who are penetrating of spirit; let us have those who are j j
discerners of souls; let us have those who are gifted j
with inspiration and prophecy; let us have those who under- j J
stand beforehand what is needed. The widow in her weeds, i
the maid clad in her mourning, the soul hedged around with |
despair, the quick and sympathetic physician readily under- I
stands. To the eye of the spiritual physician nothing shall |j
be hidden or concealed. He should know at a glance the !
state of the spiritual pulse; he should understand by the |
look of the eye and by the countenance what morbid disease | (]
is lurking there. He should know if disappointment, envy, |)
pride, malice, falsehood are stamped upon that visage and j j
gnawing away at that heart. Oh, he should be wise; and |
the spirits who have charge in the great circle of beneficence j
that, as you must be aware, receives nearly all souls at first I
that pass from earthly life—the spirits who have charge in I
this great circle are those who possess these qualifications— j
who through sorrow have become sympathetic, who, through |
crime, perhaps, know what criminals sufier, and who have j
risen free and disenthralled above their crime and above its I
suffering, who, by study of human thoughts and human j
weakness, are prepared to administer to all those subtle j(
maladies that afflict the mind, and who understand that no I
soul comes from earthly life (unless it be an angel or messiah j
sent as a messenger) that does not in some degree require j
the administration of spiritual healing. I
THE INDIAN FAMINE AND ITS PSYCHOLOGICAL I
CAUSES. I
The Eev. Thomas Collet, M.A., was the preacher at St. Luke’s |)
Church, Nutford*place, Edgware-road, W., last Sunday evening, and !
taking for his text the 14th chapter of Ezekiel, verses 13 and 14, Mr; j<
Colley said:— i)
There is a preservative element of wondrous chemical power in the M
good and true, that keeps the world from moral putrefaction. Evil j)
and error are solvents, and acrid agents of the kingdom of darkness, to || |
bring into fearful dissolution the comity and amity of wedded virtues, j)
and divorce the beautiful from the true, and the beneficent from the |) |
good, and excite war when gentle peace should have large sway, and |(|
make discord where harmony should rule, and confusion where order j i j
should obtain, and chaos where cosmos should dwell. For the province j)
of the bad is ever to ruinate, vastate, and destroy. But the effectual j j
working of the good is ever to conserve, refrain, unite, support, build jj
up. The one saps the vital force of earth, and the moral verities of j)
mortal life, and depletes manhood of virility and virtue—drains out of | j j
Mundus the heavenly Ichor for the waste of Infernus, and leaves the |||
world arid and dry of celestial graces, and the saturating showers of the i l l
higher life. The wine of life, indeed, is drawn, and the dregs alone
remain ; sin is the waster, iniquity the spoiler, wickedness the destroyer.
For though earth were crammed with heaven, as indeed it might be,
yet unrighteousness would plunder it. Though it wore the riches of
celestial wealth, which it might inherit, yet iniquity would rifle it.
Though it had the beauty of the summer land above, as was intended,
yet sin would mar it, plunder, rob, and spoil it; for it is a curse and a
destroyer, and the countervailing good alone conserves the remnant of
things unsullied, uncontaminate, and pure, and keeps alive the faithful,
and the beautiful and true that make the world endurable.
“ When the land sinneth against Me, by trespassing grievously (saith
the Lord God), then will I stretch out Mine hand upon it, and will
break the staff of the bread thereof, and will send famine upon it, and
will cut off man and beast from it.” And this in mercy (from a God
who in judgment will remember mercy) would be but righteous judg¬
ment, for “ shall not the judge of all the earth do right? ” Nay, but
it would be no less merciful than righteous. Devotion to destruction,
when hope of amendment is gone, is the highest act of mercy. Better,
far better, that an abandoned sinner should be cut off even in the very
blossom of his sin than live to ripen in iniquity, and go on still in his
wickedness, and develop to a blacker devil here and a fouler fiend
hereafter. And as with the individual so with the mass. Better, far
better, that an entire race should perish from off the earth, when possi¬
bility of reform is past, than live to cumber the ground, to vegetate
and rot, and perpetuate mischief, and spread moral pestilence around.
Sentimental weaklings may perhaps object to this drastic and bitter
philosophy ; but it is of no use mincing matters. Robust Christianity,
touched with pity, recognises the inevitable as the most merciful. The
root and branch business of the Israelites with the Canaanites, directed
by the word of the Lord to kill and spare not, but slay both man and
woman, infant and suckling, ox, sheep, camel, and ass, attests the
wisdom and beneficent goodness of amputating a limb to save a life, to
excise the gangrene with stern severity, and cut away corruption
without pity, to be most merciful and kind. So, in the judgment of
our text, it were better that the staff of bread should be broken and
famine should ensue, that man and beast should pass away, than that
sinners should bring into the world others of like nature, unfitted to
live, and unprepared to die;
In its naked boldness we state the case, and as it stands in the letter;
and we strive to hide none of the repulsiveness felt at the wholesale
holocausts alluded to, because we want strongly to enforce the truth
that the Lord does none of these things he is alleged to do. God is
love, and He never destroys, He never punishes, He never condemns,
He never kills, or wounds, or hurts—is never angry, or vengeful, im¬
placable, or stern, but is full of compassion, pity, and love, and “ His
tender mercies are over all His works.”
It is true that after the letter these former dreadful things are attri¬
buted to him, and He is credited with much of the evil that befalls us,
and there is that Scripture that says, “ Is there wickedness in the city
and I have not done it ? saith the Lord God.” But let us not forget
that in this sense the letter killeth, and that the Spirit giveth life, and
then these things will wear a different aspect. “Evil shall slay the
wicked,” and not God in anger. For, according to the first article of
our Church the one everlasting and true God is without body, parts,
and passions; and anger is certainly a passion, and not of the most
elevated order, and an angry God is an absurd impossibility. For the
high and holy One, who after the letter is said to be “ angry with the
wicked every day,” after the truer Spirit says, “ fury is not in me.”
For the truth of the appearance is one thing, the naked truth is
another. True to appearances, the sun rises and sets; true to scientific
fact, it does nothing of the sort; and just so is it with the Sun of
Righteousness that ariseth with healing in His wings. Healing but
never destruction. Pardon, never condemnation; love, never anger.
V When the land sinneth against Me by trespassing grievously, then will
I stretch out Mine hand upon it, and will break the staff of the bread
thereof, and will send famine upon it, and will cut off man and beast
from it, saith the Lord God.” But not so will I ever read the character
of the All-Father whose name is Love. Let it be mine to dig through
the appearance of truth in the letter, and get to the real truth of the
spirit. Then I shall know that God is but a letter short of Good, and
that evil wants but a letter more to make it Devil. Then I shall know
that iniquity is its own inquisitor, that the woe is in the wickedness,
the smart in the sin. Then I shall know that the bad is ever barren,
that destruction is in depravity, that ruin is in riot, vengeance in vice.
Then I shall know that a life of infamy brings famine, woe wretchedness
and want, and that sin is destructive, and that hell would depopulate
earth and drag down the stars of heaven, and make the universe an
utter wreck. For punishment for sin is Satan’s wage for value received
on part of the sinner, and not of God’s infliction for man’s transgression.
“ Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people,”
saith the Scriptures; and the latter affirmation is, to my mind, very
mildly put, for, were I to presume to amend it, I should say that sin
is not only a reproach to, but the inevitable destruction, sooner or
later, of any people, as certain as that righteousness is infinitely more
protective and conservative than guns and bastions, forts and ramparts.
And this leads me to the second head of my subject—the second part
of our text—the large influence and benehcent power of good men. It is
said that “ the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.”
How much we cannot estimate ; because the spiritual forces he sets in
motion are imponderable, and our system of weights and measures
cannot gauge their subtle influences. The meteorological barometer of
prayer would give wondrous readings, could our gross vision ken the
workings of Providence inspiring and suggesting it. But to ticket
and analyse these finer essences is beyond our province. All we know
is what we feel, and that is that good influences attend the righteous,
and that there is safety to the individual and the state when men of
integrity and uprightness are in our midst. History is pregnant with,
136
filE SPIElTtTALiST,
Sept. 21, 187?,
instances where, in the rage of things loose strung and shifty, when the
times were out of joint, and havoc and confusion ruled, and anarchy
prevailed, one man, towering in moral rectitude above his fellows—
self-sacrificing, righteous, stern, upright—has been the saviour of the
commonwealth, defender of the faith, and father of the people. Such
an one was Elijah, and Elijah reincarnated in John the Baptist—stern
and uncompromising, a great church reformer and state purifier. Such
an one was Moses, the emancipator of his people, and second father of
the race of Abraham ; and such were Noah, Daniel, and Job, with the
especial emphasis of our text. Eor Noah’s influence as a preacher of
righteousness was doubtless no less strong against the deluge of iniquity
around him than the allegoric waters of the flood. For “ when the
wicked come in like a flood the Spirit of the Lord will lift up a standard
against him” ; and his influence, in an evil and perverse time, must
long have staved off the general ruin, and mitigated the horrors of the
catastrophe when it came.
So with Daniel, as a contemner of a luxurious court, and advocate for
abstinence and temperance, and self-control—as a manly witness for the
truth (like his three companions in the fiery furnace) alone in the lion’s
den, his influence went far to change the religion, and hence recast the
life of an entire people. And so with Job, who, “ in all his affliction,
yet still retained his iniquity, nor charged God foolishly.” The influ¬
ence, believe me, for good on part of such as these is simply incalculable.
For if, as is said, the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man
availeth much, what of the effect of many such whose life is a prayer,
and whose prayer is act, and deed, and do, righteous, beneficent, loving!
For he prayeth best who loveth best. What of the silent, secret, but
largely felt influence for good on part of these ? Bring an unrighteous
man into their presence, and he is abashed, confounded, disarmed.
Who has not seen the controlling power of a virtuous woman over rude
men and sensual debauchees r So the multiplied forces of the
righteous—virtue in the aggregate, love, mercy, goodness, truth,
honesty, candour, and genuine humanity—do ever keep at bay the
powers of darkness and the spheres of evil, and the fiends of hell—
embodied or disembodied, it matters not, for there is an utter repulsion
of things wicked and unmeet from the good and true, and hence the
advantage of good companionship, and minds congenial and hearts
reciprocal of the higher virtues. The amenities of social life should
strengthen the souls protective of humanity against the infusion of
foreign and adverse and mischievous influences. Unity, brotherhood,
and oneness, and charity, and purity, and trust should be neighbours and
near citizens in every circle; and the influence of such society and com¬
panionship would be felt in the peace and preservation of the state, and
the republic of the soul that would legislate thus wisely should see
abundance of peace and every good.
But power of deliverance from evil on part of the good, great as it is,
has its limits. Ten righteous men in the city of Sodom would have
saved it of old, “For,” saith the Lord, “I will not destroy it for ten’s
sake.” One righteous man in Jerusalem in the time of Jeremiah would
have worked a pardon and reprieve, for saith the Lord, “ Run ye to and
fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now and know, and seek
in the broad places thereof if ye can find a man—if there be any that
executeth judgment, that seeketh the truth; and I will pardon it.”
But when the virtue of the state, and moral health of the people, is
centred in one man, or ten men, the times are perilous indeed. The
merest accident decimates the one, or cuts off the other—the standard
of right is lost—the sample gone, no supply follows—the pattern torn,
no design appears—the die broken, no casts are taken—the throne
vacant, and no heir apparent here ; then (as in the evil days when there
was no king in Israel, and every man did that which was right in his
own eyes) wrong results, and confusion gathers head; order and degree
upset, quiet rudely shaken, society rotten at the core, and civilisation
but a gilded barbarism ; the land is ripe for ruin and subversion, and
“though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, they
should but deliver their own souls by their righteousness, saith the
Lord God.”
And now, the practical lesson we have to learn from the considera¬
tion of these weighty facts and solemn truths, is that each in his office,
and that state of life in which it has pleased God to place him, be
thorough, conscientious, upright, and true. “No man liveth unto
himself, and no man doeth unto himself.” We are but parts of one
stupendous whole, and must act in loving reciprocity with others for
our own soul’s good and the public weal. True, it would be egotism
and self-righteousness to think that everything depends upon us and
our poor weak advocacy and endeavour. “ Let no man think of himself
more highly than he ought to thiuk,” says the Apostle. The wheels of
progress move with us, and let us be no obstacle in their way to hinder
them ; but let us not be like the fly that sat on the axletree and madly
thought it drew the chariot along, and cried out in huge conceit and
folly, “ See what a dust I kick up! ” Don’t let us think the hub of
the universe centres in us; but, on the other hand, at the same time,
don’t let us under-estimate our influence by precept and example, or
forget that our small contribution to the general well-being has its
value, and is duly noted to our credit by the omniscience of the Eternal,
and that when we do wrong we substract from the general good, and
earn damnation to ourselves thereby. We may not have the faith of
Noah, but what prevents us from praying, “Lord, increase our faith”?
We may not have the moral courage of Daniel, but what hinders us
from saying, “ Strengthen these weak hands, and confirm these feeble
knees ? ” We may not have the patience of Job ; but what opposes the
spirit’s aspiration for the patience of hope,* and the power of love, and
the fulness of Christ, whereby we may do all things, and bear all
things, and believe all things, and hope all things, and be made after
the pattern of our great exemplar Jesus—the man Jehovah—meek and
loving and lion-hearted, and innocently wise ; and be, in our degree, as
He was in His infinitude and divine amplitude, faithful and true, and
gentle and long-suffering, forgiving iniquity, transgression, and sin—
true, honest, upright men, after the fashion of the Divine Man, touched
with the pitifulness of womanhood, and the compassionate nature and
patient bearing of love ? We may not, I say, have the faith of Noah,
or the moral courage of Daniel, or the patience of Job in a remarkable
degree, but a measure of grace is given unto every man—says the
apostle—to profit withal; and if each will pray for and covet earnestly
the best gifts, the condemnation of our text shall not visit us, as it has
done that other land afar, but we shall be co-operative with angelic
workers in bringing the world into a higher state of development, and
more perfect accord with heaven.
This, indeed, is urgently needed by the world—a lever of individual
goodness, comported and built up of earnest, loving souls, and the
fulcrum of some vital truth to lift the world into a higher condition
and prise humanity some degrees in the scale of being towards angel¬
hood. This is needed, needed in our midst; for in this vast wilderness
of life around there is much moral desolation and physical want. But,
specially concerning these things, to-night our thoughts are carried
eastward, where we may contemplate want, spiritual and material, in
an amazing degree and distressing proportions. That the Word of Life
is needed there in India, from personal experience I can sadly attest,
but preached in a very different way from which missionary societies
insult—with mawkish and intellectual talk of the prayer-meeting sort—
the acute and transcendental and meditative mind of the thoughtful
Hindoo, high-caste Brahmin, or learned Pundit. Bat the urgent want
now is bread-—bread for the starving millions. “ When the land sinneth
against Me by transgressing grievously,” saith the Lord, “ then will I
stretch out Mine hand upon it, and will break the staff of the bread
thereof, and will send famine upon it, and will cut off man and beast
from it.” And that land afar has sinned grievously—grievously;
therefore, effete and broken, it is subject to the rule of a more-
vigorous race, and we of the far west from them, and mere
handful of Englishmen, govern the destinies of the many millions
of the mighty East, and India is our province. But it has
also sinned against the laws of nature, as well as against the
laws of God as rooted and set forth in man, by one a shade superior
enfouling, contemning, despising and enslaving another, till the ancient
and mysterious evil of caste has divided the nation and broken it up into
warring sects, and shattered society into fragments innumerable—the
bundle of sticks untied for our easy breaking. Not only has India
sinned—in this misuse and degradation of man—against the laws of
God, but against the laws of nature, which is God in ultimates. Trees
have been cut down, and but few planted, and vast forests have disap¬
peared. I have travelled in India north and south nearly three
thousand miles, and have not passed so much wood as I did yesterday
coming to London from Warwickshire. Across the plains (for India
consists mainly of great mountain ranges and then vast plains of
limitless extent), and across these wide stretching plains, from
the horizon some hundreds of miles to the right, to the
horizon some hundreds of miles to the left, I have gazed upon
an utter flat, with not a tree to be seen; hot, dusty, arid, with
not the shadow of a rock in all the weary land. Stunted bushes
here and there, or jungle, in which the tiger prowls, with wild grasses
rank in patches, or browned and stubbed, and indistinguishable from
the dust in which it dies. Now, the source of the river is said to be
in the leaf, and where there is woodland there is refreshing moisture,
and there are gentle streams. But as here, with millions of square
miles denuded of wood, there is a furnace heat and dryness inconceiv¬
able ; river beds of great extent and breadth, but no water—stonier
and dustier ruts merely than common, of the land they scar. So, when
the rains do come, with no leaves to break the fall, or roots to retain
the moisture, the deluge has irresistible force, and the swollen volume
of the river, which is continually shifting its bed, rushes wildly on,
carrying the loam of the rice plantation, and soil of the fields and sur¬
face earth completely away, leaving the rocks as clean washed as the
pavement outside this church.
Now, in these evils that afflict so large a part of India, which from
personal observation I briefly set forth, a remedy for these too
frequent famines is suggested. Under native maladministration,
before our beneficent sway in our eastern fatherland (for we as Indo-
Europeans are only emigrant sons from the orient to the west ages
ago, now returning to govern the estate we then left, and now again
inherit), under native misrule, I say, before our sway of empire there,
these farhines were chronic, and looked for on part of the rajahs and
princes and ameers to reduce the overteeming population, which our
better humanity will not let perish.
Let us then, giving as largely as we can to alleviate the distress, at
the same time try to understand its cause, and take measures to pre¬
vent its recurrence. For, as I have endeavoured to show, it is not
God that doth break the staff of bread, or send famine, but man, who
acts in opposition to the laws of life. Let us plant trees, and forest up
the wastes, to attract the moisture, vital to the land as truth—its
spiritual correspondence—is to the soul. Let us irrigate the country,
and dig canals, and lay down water highways over the plains of India,
before we net the vast land with railways, for thus a double purpose
would be served—transit of merchandise, and an unfailing water
supply, where rivers are so very few, and where every few hundred
yards wells have to be digged, and water all day long scantily drawn
up by oxen grudgingly to moisten the dry and dusty laud.
But, staying not further to theorise, let us to-night practically do all
we can to mitigate the horrors of this famine. I could describe them,
for I have seen somewhat of the matter for which I plead. Never
overfed, the Hindu starving is a pitiable object, and I know what a
few annas—that is, pence—will do ; and our pence, and charity in
pounds, going out to feed our dusky fellow citizens of the east, will do
more to establish our rule there than many armies. Indeed, our power
in India came to my mind more proudly, and advertised our prowess
to the natives more lovingly, and infinitely better, than by force o(
Sept. 21, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
137
arms, in what I saw below Poonah—a famine relief train of over six
hundred wagons filled with food, extending from one station to another,
from Kurfut to Campoolee, nearly six miles long. Let us determine
to-night to add to its length, and so, each being co-operative with the
other, help to bring this dreadful misery in India to a speedy and
final end.
And bringing, too, our own patch of earth into better cultivation, as
we are all of the earth earthy, that the trees of the Lord’s right hand
planting, and trees of the Lord which are full of sap may never be
wanting on our estate, and that spiritual drought and soul famine
may never be ours, let us get an rapport with things spiritual and
divine ; bringing the little world within us into harmony with the
higher world above us, until the threatened denunciation of the
prophet Ezekiel in our text is transposed to the happier prophecy of
Isaiah, which spiritually says of each regenerating heart, <l Thou shalt
no more be termed forsaken, neither shall thy land any more be
termed desolate; but thou shalt be called Hepzibah, and thy land Beulah,
for the Lord delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married.” For,
weaned from every evil way, and wed to goodness and to truth, virtue
and fraternity and loving-kindness, the wilderness within, and the
solitary place of the human heart shall be glad, and the desert shall
rejoice, and blossom as the rose.
A DEVIL-DANCE IN INDIA.
It is an extremely difficult thing for a European to witness a devil-
dance. As a rule, he must go disguised, and he must be able to speak
the language like a native, before he is likely to be admitted without
suspicion into the charmed circle of fascinated devotees, each eager to
press near the possessed priest to ask him questions about the future
while the divine afflatus is in its full force upon him. Let me try to
bring the whole scene vividly before the reader. Night, starry and
beautiful, with a broad, low moon seen through the palms. A still,
solemn night, with few sounds to mar the silence, save the deep, muffled
boom of breakers bursting on the coast full eight miles distant. A lonely
hut, a huge banyan-tree, grim and gloomy. All round spread inter¬
minable sands, the only vegetation on which is composed of lofty
palmyran, and a few stunted thorn trees and wild figs. In the midst of
this wilderness rises, spectre-like, that aged, enormous tree, the banyan,
haunted by a most ruthless she-devil. Cholera is abroad in the land,
and the natives know that it is she who has sent them the dreaded
pestilence. The whole neighbourhood wakes to the determination that
the malignant power must be propitiated in the most effectual manner.
The appointed night arrives. Out of village, and hamlet, and hut pours
the wild crowd of men and women and children. In vain the Brahmins
tinkle their bells at the neighbouring temple; the people know what they
want, and the deity which they must reverence as supreme j ust now.
On flows the crowd to that gloomy island in the star-lit waste—that
weird, hoary banyan. The circle is formed, the fire is lit, the offerings
are got ready—goats and fowls, and rice and pulse and sugar, and ghee
and honey, and white chaplets of oleander blossoms and jasmine buds.
The tom-toms are beaten more loudly and rapidly, the hum of rustic
converse is stilled, and a deep hush of awe-struck expectancy holds the
motley assemblage. The rickety door of the hut is quickly dashed
open, and the devil-dancer staggers out. Between the hut and the ebon
shadow of the sacred banyan lies a strip of moon-lit sand; and, as he
passes this, the devotees can clearly see their priest. He is a tall,
haggard, pensive man, with deep, sunken eyes and matted hair. His
forehead is smeared with ashes, and there are streaks of vermilion and
saffron over his face. He wears a high conical cap, white, with a red
tassel. A long white robe, or angi, shrouds him from neck to ankle.
On it are worked in red silk representations of the goddess of small-pox,
murder, and cholera. Round his ankles are massive silver bangles.
In his right hand he holds a staff or spear, and the same hand also
holds a bow, which, when the strings are pulled or struck, emits a dull
booming sound. In his left hand the devil-priest carries his sacrificial
knife, shaped like a sickle, with quaint devices engraved on its blade.
The dancer reels slowly into the centre of the crowd, and then seats
himself. The assembled people show him the offerings they intend to
present; but he appears wholly unconscious. He croops an Indian lay
in a low, dreamy voice, with drooped eyelids and head sunken on his
breast. He sways slowly to and fro, from side to side. Look I You
see his fingers twitch nervously. His head begins to wag in a strange,
uncanny fashion. His sides heave and quiver, and huge drops of per¬
spiration exude from his skin. The tom-toms are beaten faster, the
pipes and reeds wail out more loudly. There is a sudden yell, a stinging,
stunning cry, an ear-piercing shriek, a hideous abominable gobble-
gobble of hellish laughter, and the devil-dancer has sprung to his feet,
with eyes protruding, mouth foaming, chest heaving, muscles quivering,
and outstretched, arms swollen and straining as if they were crucified.
Now, ever and anon, quick, sharp words are jerked out of the saliva-
choked mouth, “ I am God ! I am the true God !” Then all around
him—since he, and no idol, is regarded as the present deity—reeks the
blood of sacrifice. The devotees crowd round to offer oblations and to
solicit answers to their questions. Shrieks, vows, imprecations, prayers,
and exclamations of thankful praise rise up, all blended together in one
infernal hubbub. Above all rise the ghastly guttural laughter of the
devil-dancer, and his stentorian howls—“I am God! I am the only
true God!” He cuts and hacks and hews himself, and not very unfre-
quently kills himself there and then. His answers to the queries put
to him are generally incoherent. Sometimes he is sullenly silent, and
sometimes he is most benign, and showers his divine favours of health
and prosperity all round him. Hours pass by. Suddenly the dancer
gives a great bound in the air; when he descends he is motionless.
111 The fiendish look has vanished from his eyes. His demoniacal laughter
i j! is still. He speaks to this and to that neighbour quietly and reason-
| ) j ably. He lays aside his garb, washes his face at the nearest rivulet,
i 11 and walks soberly home, a modest, well-conducted man.—Pictorial
j (j World.
\ I THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
|! SPIRITUALISM.
j (j A TRANCE ADDRESS BY MR. COLVILLE.
! || On Thursday, the 13th Sept., Mr. W. J. Colville delivered the first
j < I of two inspirational discourses to members and friends of the above
nj Association. There was a small but appreciative audience. The sub-
! )j ject chosen for the discourse was “ What constitutes Mediumship? ”
I j | Mr. Colville said that it was erroneously supposed by many at the
| j I present day that mediumship and its phenomena were a result of what
i) i is called “ Modern Spiritualism,” and that the Fox family and others
i j I in America were the first mediums. That such was really not the fact
I) i was clear to every one who had taken the smallest trouble to study the
|)! subject, for mediumship was but a revival in present times of that
| j | “ outpouring of the Spirit,” which had taken place in ages long gone by,
I j i and the manifestation of which was as old as the history of the world.
|) i Mediumship was peculiar to no nation, race, or sect; it came impartially
j (j to all, and it was, therefore, a natural gift common to all men.
[I It might be said that every living being was a medium; the
|) | only question was the degree of development in individuals. The
'|| vast spirit world surrounded the material world, like an enveloping
j cloud, and its myriads of inhabitants were ever influencing their
| j brethren and sisters still in the body ; the influence acted consciously
| or unconsciously, but none the less surely and effectively. Mediums,
; j usually so known, were those persons who, possessing a predominance
(| of what might be termed “nerve aura” in their constitutions, were
| j thereby rendered sensitive to the approaches of the spirits. Of course it
j | was in a great degree within the will of such persons whether they would
11 welcome or resist the use that could be made of their power. All men
I possessed it, either in the germ or in fuller development; there were
)j “ born mediums ” in the fullest sense of the term, and also those who
II might be said to be no mediums at all, their power being invariably in
!)| a normal condition. When medial parents were in harmony, their off-
! 5! spring would be far more susceptible to spirit influences than those who
| ! were bom of parents with materialistic tendencies. Then there were
j) i the processes of development. The seers, the hermits of olden times,
I i knew the necessity for this training; hence they were generally from
I j | childhood set apart from their fellows, and by eliminating the material
III tendencies of the body the spirit was brought into closer communication
| i with the disembodied. The ancients were wiser than we, for the gift of
! | mediumship was fully understood by them, and was cultivated as soon
j as it appeared. In modern times an outbreak of mediumship was re-
| i garded as insanity, and the unhappy medium was looked upon as a fit
II i subject for a lunatic asylum; or worse, as a self-deluded impostor. The
| ! variety of forms of mediumship was such as to cause great discussion
!) I even among Spiritualists. It was in most cases a matter of aspiration
III on the part of the medium, influenced, no doubt, by his circumstances
I )j and surroundings. If the lower or physical form of mediumship were
<i desired, the less developed spirits, who had greater power over ma-
j 11 terial forces would control. If higher aspirations were followed,
j j | the purer and better orders of the spirit world were attracted to the
j |j medium. In the first instance no intelligence higher than that of the
| j | medium and his associates would communicate. In the latter higher
j 11 intelligencies would come, and the sitters would learn more, although
j they might not receive manifestations of a startling and physical
j i character.
| | At the close of the discourse many questions bearing upon the subject
| | were asked by the listeners, and answers were given by the spirit con-
1 | trolling Mr. Colville.
| i An inspirational poem on the subject of “ Guardian Spirits ” was
i | next delivered. An Indian spirit then controlled, and held a lively con*
i versation for a time with those present,
j j | The proceedings then terminated, after it had been announced by the
I i secretary that Mr. Colville had that evening been elected an honorary
i i member of the Association.
I MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
I The ordinary monthly meeting of the Council of this Association was
I I held on Thursday evening last week, at 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
|){ London, E. Present, Mr. John Rouse (in the chair), Mr. Jonathan
| | Tozeland, and Mr. Thos. Blyton. Letters were read from the British
111 National Association of Spiritualists, the Psychological Society of Great
|)| Britain, Mr. Benj. Coleman, Miss Corner, Mr. Christian Reimers, and
| | Mr. J. J. Morse. Presentations were laid upon the table, and accepted
| | with a cordial vote of thanks, from the Baroness von Vay, Mrs. E.
111 Elgie Corner, Mr. Benj. Coleman, and Miss F. J. Theobald. Mrs. and
| Miss Arundale were elected ordinary members, and Messrs. J. William
| | Fletcher and William James Colville were elected honorary members of
111 the Association. A letter was read from Mr. R. A. March, offering to
! | give a reading, with some critical observations, on Shakespeare’s play of
111 Hamlet, with special reference to the “ Ghost;” which was accepted
|| with thanks for Thursday evening, the 29th November next. The
|) | seventh anniversary meeting was fixed for Monday evening, the 1st
|) | proximo. Arrangements were approved for fortnightly social discus-
| i sion meetings on Monday evenings in months of Nov., Dec., Jan., Feb.,
1 j March, and April. An arrangement was approved for the reading of a
i J paper by Mr. Christian Reimers before the Association on Thursday
j|i evening, the 27th inst. The date of Mr. Morse’s visit was postpmed
\a from lith October to the 3rd January next. The Council then
I | adjourned.
13S
ffifi SPIfeialtTAtlSl!.
Sept. 21, 1877.
MR. LESLIE STEPHEN ON SPIRITUALISM. j
BY WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOR OF “THE LIFE OF SWEDENBORG.” jj
In the Fortnightly Review for September there is an article If
by Mr. Leslie Stephen on “The Scepticism of Believers,” jv
in the course of which occurs this pretty passage :— ||
“ It is a commonplace to taunt sceptics with credulity, nor j
is the taunt without foundation. So long as men of science |
continue to dabble in the filth of 1 Spiritualism ’ it will have K
a meaning. A confessor is, after all, better than a medium, j
and I would rather revere the miracles of Lourdes than grovel |
before the trickery of a Yankee conjurer.” j
As vituperation, this is distinctly inferior to Professor |
Clifford’s manifestation; and “ the filth of Spiritualism ” is j
an appropriation from Mr. G. H. Lewes’s repertory of j j
abuse. I take it that such expressions of feeling are highly j |
encouraging. Their ferocity is begotten of fear. It is the jj
line of the agnostics (as they style themselves) to represent j
this world as the beginning and end of us—an opinion, an !
unhappy opinion, an untrue opinion, but no more than an j
opinion. This opinion is however converted into a dogma, j
over which their rhetoricians wax eloquent, as if they had j
discovered a new gospel, whilst its assailants are encoun- j
tered with a degree of truculence which might surprise us if I
we did not know the vehemence with which men will fight j
for their favourite notions, even when they are the merest j
trumpery. Spiritualists, as men of science, whose belief in |
the continuance of life through the phenomenon of death is |
not only an opinion, but a matter of experience and demon- ! !
stration, come in naturally for the especial savagery with | |
which Professor Tyndall and others have made us familiar, j j
which treatment we accept as evidence of the genuine alarm | i
our facts and discoveries inspire. j j
A REMARKABLE PRIVATE SEANCE. j j
BY EDWARD T, BENNETT. j ( j
The following brief notes of the more interesting if
phenomena observed at a private seance may be worth j I
recording:— j j
On Sunday evening, the 9th inst., a circle consisting of j j
Dr. Monck, Mrs. F., Miss R., a medical man, Mr. Christian I
Reimers, and myself, met at Mr. Reimers’s house, No. 6, j
Manor-villas, Richmond. We sat round an ordinary table j
on which were placed the works of a small musical box, two j
small slates, paper and black lead pencil. A shaded candle j
was placed in an adjoining room, the door being open, so j|: ;
that there was all through the stance sufficient light to see j !
the various objects in the room, and the time by a watch. j j
After some ordinary preliminary manifestations, Dr. j j
Monck’s control addressed the medical man, whom I | j
will call Dr. A., and asked him to tell him a word he would I
like written on the slate. The slates were examined and j
marked by myself, tied together securely by Dr. A. As no j
bit of slate pencil could be found, a minute fragment of j
black lead was placed between them, which we ascertained j
would make a mark. Dr. A. then chose the word “darling,” j
and the slates were placed on the table, and Dr. M.’s and I
Dr. A.’s hands on them. j j
Mr. M.’s control: “ Hav’n’t you got any slate pencil ? ” jjl
Dr. A.: “ No. There is a bit of black lead in ; can’t you j t
write with that? ” | j
Dr. M.’s control: “ Don’t like it. Shall we get a bit of j j
our own ? ” jj j
Dr. A.: “ Yes.” j j
Dr. M.’s control: “My medium will carry the slates j j
round and place them on the Dr.’s head. There; it is j j
done!” V
Candle brought. The slates (which had never been out I |
of sight of the whole circle) untied. Inside, was the word | j
“ darling,” written in a large, rather trembling hand, as if | j
with slate pencil, but there was none visible. | j
Dr. M.’s control: “Tell me the Christian name of some j j
friend you would like to be here.” I j
Dr. A.: “Sophia.” ! j
.Dr. M.’s control: “ She is here; and there is an old man j j
with her of dignified appearance.' He is sorry for you about |j|
something; I think it is about money. He has such a |jj
curious thing on his head, a crown with points upwards, and jjl.
little balls on them,”
Dr. A: “ Will he give his name ? ”
Dr. M.’s control: “ He says he will try and write it him¬
self?”
The medium asks for a piece of note paper, holds it in
his hand a minute, places it on the table, and a pocket pencil
about three inches long by it. The pencil moves, no one
touching it. It makes feeble attempts to rise. Finally it
succeeds, and we see it stand up by itself, and write as with
a firm hand for a few seconds, and then fall down again.
Dr. A. takes up the paper, and finds written the name
****** *? ijjjgil 0f a deceased nobleman with whom he
had been professionally connected, and, who was a rela¬
tive of the lady whose name he had given, and whose rank
was correctly indicated by the “ curious crown.”
A singular physical manifestation then took place. The
works of the musical box began to move, but the movements
seemed impeded by catching in the woollen table-cloth. I
therefore handed a sheet of my note paper to stand them
on. The whole works then moved about freely, and went
on and stopped playing repeatedly as requested by the
medium, and finally executed a sort of dance on the table,
jumping up and down about half an inch.
This was followed by a still more singular, and so far as I
know, a unique manifestation. Dr. M. was impressed to
bring a lighted candle (in an ordinary chamber candlestick)
into the room, and to place it on the floor just under the
edge of the table. All six of us were sitting round the
table, and all hands were seen to be on it. We hear the
candlestick move, and see the shadows of ourselves and of
the table-cloth move on the walls. For perhaps two minutes
the candlestick with the lighted candle is carried about,
round and round, backwards and forwards, underneath the
table, apparently about six inches from the floor, as I feel
the edge of the candlestick several times knock against my
leg. It is finally thrown down with a jerk, at one end of
the table, the candle being still alight, but nothing is burnt
and no damage is done.
After a few minutes’ break, we sat again for materialisa¬
tions. Two sitting-rooms in the house are connected by
folding doors. A curtain is stretched across the opening.
We sit in one room, a lighted candle behind a screen being
placed in one corner, so that the degree of light is about the
same as before. Dr. Monck retires behind the curtain. In
less than five minutes the medium appears “ under
control,” with a white draped female figure standing by his
side. The medium’s control points out the “ line of light ”
apparently of the same material as the drapery of the figure,
drawn out into a band or cord, extending to the medium,
and appearing to go into the breast of his coat. The medium
draws three or four feet away from the figure, the cord
stretches thinner. He strikes through it with his arm and it
disappears, and he says, “ Now all visible connection is dis¬
solved. To show you that it is not a lay figure ” (turning
to the figure), “ Clap your hands.” This it does several
times, the medium doing the same. The sounds are
similar.
A second figure came out in the same way. The medium,
suddenly addressing Dr. A., said : “ You did not tell me—■
you are a widower—no—you have a wife—you have married
again—she says she is your first wife—give me your hand¬
kerchief.” Dr. A. hands a white handkerchief, which the
medium takes and gives to the figure, who rapidly knots it
up in a symmetrical, ingenious manner, and it is returned.
Dr. A. is asked to step up nearer, but the figure is so closely
veiled, and the features so obscure that he obtains no evi¬
dence of identity.
Four other figures appear, once two at a time, one on
each side of the medium. One kneels down gracefully,
says softly, “ Bless you,” and rises again. The most curious
phenomenon is that two or three of the figures do not retire
behind the screen, but are distinctly seen to disappear in
front of it. They appear to go close to the body of the
medium, and seem to be absorbed or sucked in.
Total darkness is then requested. A faint opal-like light
appears, with an indistinct face above it, moves about,
apparently high up, giving just enough light to show the
features of a face. This brought the seance to a conclusion.
During about ten minutes’ conversation afterwards Dr.
Monck was several times “ under control,” and spoke to
Sept. 21, 1877.
THE S P IE ITU ALIS T.
139
SPIRITUAL REASONS FOR EARTHLY SUFFERINGS.
Hr. A. of a young man he knew years ago, describing accu¬
rately himself, his conduct and course of life. Turning to
me, he also spoke of seeing two of my friends, the descrip¬
tion of whom, so far as it went, was perfectly accurate.
In reviewing the seance, it will be noticed that there was
a remarkable variety of physical and psychical manifesta¬
tions—ordinary trance speaking and clairvoyance, direct
writing both between the slates and on paper with a pencil
in the light, movements of objects in the light, carrying the
lighted candle about under the table, the stopping and
starting of the musical box at will, the various materialisa¬
tions, and the spirit light. All occurred within the space
of two hours.
As to test conditions. It will be observed that no special
ones were imposed, no precautions were taken, except the
use of all our senses at the time. As is often the case
when this course is pursued, first-rate evidences of the
genuineness and of what may be called the miraculous
character of the phenomena presented themselves as the
seance proceeded. For instance, the writing between the
slates, of a word selected after they were tied together, and
without a piece of slate pencil; the writing of a name by a
pencil, in the light, without mortal contact, and which name
corresponded with description and other circumstances.
This amounts very nearly, if not quite, to a logical proof of
identity. The carrying about of the lighted candle is a fine
satire on those who persist in saying that everything is done
in the dark. It will be observed that we had no darkness,
except for the purpose of showing the “ lamp.”
I have endeavoured to be as concise as possible, and to
give the facts in a way in which their value will be appre¬
ciated, and will only add that the gentleman I have spoken
of as Hr. A. has seen and endorses this account of the
stance.
The Mansion, Richmond Hill, near London, Sept 12th, 1877.
Dr. Robert S. Wyld, F.R.S.E., has just issued a book entitled The
Physics and Philosophy of the Senses ; or, the Mental and Physical in
their Mutual Pelation (King and Co.).
On Sunday next, September 23, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver two
trance addresses in the Temperance Hall, Keighley—afternoon at 2.30,
evening at 6.30; admission free.
We have received the second annual report of the Funeral Reform
Association, but it contains little or no information as to the objects of
the society beyond that given by the name of the organisation.
ff Stoical philosophy doubted whether the human mind can ascertain
absolute truth. While Zeno was indulging in such doubts, Euclid was
preparing his great work, destined to challenge contradiction from the
whole human race. After more than twenty-two centuries it still
survives, a model of accuracy, perspicuity, and a standard of exact
demonstration. . . . The day will never come when any one of the
propositions of Euclid will be denied; no one will henceforth call in
question the globular shape of the earth as recognised by Eratosthenes.”
—Draper’s History of the Conflict between Religion and Science, pp.
27-8 and 33.
Death Warnings.—The Liverpool Daily Post of September 18th
says:—“The loss of the Avalanche has been the occasion for the
propagation of some of those mysterious stories which always seem to
accrue to swell the marvel of great disasters. Perhaps the first is not
very wonderful, except to the lad who was concerned in it. He was the
great friend and mate of one of the apprentices who were lost, and had
intended to accompany him down the channel, and to come on shore
with the pilot. The arrangements had all been made, when he was
suddenly seized with an indefinable repugnance to the proposed trip.
At the same time an engagement in Edinburgh became suddenly
pressing, and, making this the excuse, he escaped from almost certain
death. This is strange, but the story regarding the drowned apprentice
is even stranger. It reminds me rather of the scene in Jane Eyre,
where the heroine of the novel hears the voice of Mr. Rochester
actually uttered miles away. Lest I should be accused of garnishing,
I give it precisely in the words which have been communicated to me :—
% The apprentice whose friend escaped possessed a retriever dog which
was very fond of him, and which answered to a shrill dog-whistle he
carried. On the night of the shipwreck his mother and aunt were in
the sitting-room, and the dog in the kitchen. Between nine and ten
o’clock the ladies were startled by hearing a shrill whistle upstairs, in
sound resembling that of the dog-whistle used by the young man. The
dog heard it also, gave his usual recognising bark, and hurried
upstairs, where he supposed his master was. It is difficult to explain
such an occurrence as this by any reference to the laws of mental asso¬
ciation, The two ladies in question are of such intelligence as not easily
to have been deceived. In the house was the whistle heard just about
the time that the Avalanche went down, and it was heard by two
credible witnesses, whose testimony was confirmed by the response
made to it by the dog of the lost sailor.’ I give the story as it was
given to me, but the marvel I do not attempt to explain.”
| A SPIRIT MESSAGE GIVEN THROUGH MRS. WOODFORDE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
You ask me why some persons suffer so much, some snatched from a
| life of usefulness to a large circle, and compelled to pass their days in
| the dreariness of the sick chamber, useless to all, and vainly striving
through the weary hours to recover that health and activity which had
always been their delight. Truly, it is a pitiable sight, alike to mortals
and spirits ; and the trial is severe for those whose happiness is centred
in the happiness they can make for others, and who do not care for life
on earth except so far as they can pass it usefully, who also have lived
for years with the hope to accomplish a certain work, continually spur¬
ring them on. The great trial of illness comes, and as the weeks and
months pass on, and the coveted health does not return, one by one the
beloved objects in life must be resigned. Instead of living for the good
of others, with every breath laden with some scheme of work which may
produce a certain amount of benefit, alas 1 every breath is a breath of
pain, and for self alone is the poor weary being forced to live, to live for
the body, the wearisome suffering body, which requires this little relief,
that little necessity, this remedy, and that comfort, or solace. The
spirit within, deprived of its usual enjoyments with friends and beloved
ones, pines, becomes fretful, impatient, and feels the burthen of suffer¬
ing too heavy. You cannot be too patient with one so afflicted, for you
cannot measure the poignancy of the spirit’s suffering within a deceased
body. The spirit loses its happy equilibrium, and the lowest nature,
held down in the strength of health, or unexcited because of ease, and
comfort, rises uppermost. Weaknesses of temper are betrayed, which
were never suspected, and the agonised spirit sees the hideousness of its
lower nature, probably not yet completely eradicated. It needed some
complete revolution in earthly circumstances to bring that hateful de-
| formity to the surface. Doubt not the suffering spirit will know itself,
| although it may give no signs of consciousness of deformity. Pride may
| prevent any external sign being given, but that consciousness will be
| there, nevertheless, working reform. Have patience, then, as you would
wish others to have patience with you, for the spirit is passing through
] the agonies of a great change.
j Often in ignorance the question is asked—“ Why is it so ? Why am
i I thus afflicted ? Why may I not be permitted to go on with my
! work ? Unless I can be of use to others I do not care for life here.
11 And 1 cannot see any spiritual good this long, tiresome, illness is
[ i doing me; on the contrary, it seems to me only harm. If I could see
11 the good I might be more reconciled.” True, it is difficult to see the
I good, but it exists nevertheless. The body exists for the good of the
soul only, and the different conditions and circumstances of hfe arise out
1 of the necessities of the soul’s growth into the higher spiritual states of
) being. Ease of life on earth is not always conducive to that growth,
j If it be so the soul will have that ease, and the constant sunshine of all that
) conduces to happiness here below. A previous life might have been one
of privation of all kinds; or a life of ease whose advantages were not
sufficiently cultivated. But you cannot follow all lives through every
i change, and suffering, in some form or other, comes to all. Whatever
' may be the condition, be sure it is what the soul requires to mould it
[ into heavenly beauty; to give opportunities for the uprooting of evil
i tendencies; for the acquisition of new virtues, the expansion of intel-
1 lect, or the growth of the affections. Nature tries her plastic hand in
[ human clay many times before she can produce the spiritual beauty
i required. The spirit within must become divine, and there are many
I | steps, and many hundreds of years in which to take them, between the
[ | lower animal nature of the savage and the higher spiritual nature of the
i j angelic man.
[ | Look upon the life on earth as a school, a scene of suffering and
II trial. But remember there is no careless chance about anything. A
i j law regulates the scenes which surround you, and in which you are an
| actor or a sufferer; it apportions to your lot only what your soul
I i requires for its development. So if sickness, sorrow, or sudden calamity
II befall you, remember that spiritually you must have required it, or you
! would not have had it.
i If from ignorance you commit an error, from the consequences of
i which you suffer nearly a lifetime, your soul will have profited by the
i knowledge gained so painfully, and will never suffer again from the
) | consequences of the same error. Had man been so endowed with all
| wisdom that he could never have committed an error, life on any planet
| would have been impossible for him. If it be permitted us to imagine
| anything of the Divine Being from whom we proceed, I, from my
11 spiritual standpoint, would say that it must be essential for the Divine
I Originator of all things to know every possibility of His Being, and
i therefore the material world exists. It is the lowest point that spirit
i can reach, and spirit can work upon that plane only in the material
| form; but a gradual growth from the lowest point is necessary, there-
j fore the soul, or divine spark, proceeding from the Eternal Source of
11 light and life, embodies itself in the lowest ere it can begin the return
j i to the highest. Along that endless road it passes through all the un-
!| avoidable vicissitudes attendant upon life on the material plane. It
i learns the lowest possibilities in the human nature of evil, and the
) | highest possibilities of good. If in its ignorance, in the exercise of
| freewill, it chooses all that degrades and transforms the divine possibi-
} i lities into the demoniac actualities, it experiences all the horrors and
j | painfulness of that state. The experiences of the soul are never lost,
) | nor its individuality. The experiences gained in one fife re-
( | gulate the next; the soul springs from the attainments of the pre-
j | ceding life as from a spiritual ground or basis. But all through the
i attainment of a divine nature, it may wear hundreds of fleshly gar-
11 mentings; it can never lose itself, its individuality. It is impossible
j | for the human soul to spring ,at once from the lowest incarnation on
) | earth into high spiritual possibilities in heaven. The lower animal
I i nature must be gradually worn off through repeated incarnations before
) | man can know himself an angel or divine. The souls of lower natures
140
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 21, 1877.
cling about the earth waiting for reincarnation, whether they know it or
not. A certain period of happiness in the spirit-world may be the lot j
of many, but sooner or later the knowledge comes that renewed life on
some earth is essential for a larger growth, a greater acquisition of the
divine. The trials, temptations, and sufferings of earth are a means by j
which the imperfect human nature may approach nearer to divine per¬
fection ; therefore, remember that on earth it will be impossible to avoid
sufferings. i
I will finish with the communication from your spirit-friend “A.”:—
“ When the seed is put into the ground it lies long in darkness, j
silently decaying, or passing from the old state into the new one of pro¬
ductiveness—a seeming decay. This is necessary before the new can
be produced. So is it with human souls in the suffering, decaying
body. The spirit in the dark dungeon ripens its germs of good, and by.
many deaths puts forth its blossoms of beauty in the spirit-world. So j
our darlings on earth frequently become imprisoned in the chamber of j
suffering that they may learn lessons of wisdom which they cannot j
learn in the gay, ever-changing scenes of life abroad. We must pass I
through the valley of the shadow of death to be able to appreciate the j
glories of heaven. For many that road lies through martyrdom, or the |
quick agony, the instantaneous passage athwart the dread gulf, by
terrific, but short pain. For many more the prolonged suffering, com¬
paratively mild it may be, but protracted, until life seems a weary
burden, and the soul longs for release. But the quiet moulding of the
spirit in preparation for that release goes on meantime, until the fields
are ripe for harvesting, the grapes for gathering, and the Master will
come for his own.”
iSomi). |
THE SPIRITUAL WORLD. |
It lies around us like a cloud, i
A world we cannot see; I
Yet the sweot closing of an eye j
May bring us there to he. j
Its gentle breezes fan our cheeks
Amid our worldly cares ;
Its gentle voices whisper love i,
And mingle with our prayers. 11
And in the hush of rest they bring, j,
’Tis easy now to see {I
How lovely and how sweet a pass !
The hour of death may be— j
To close the eye and close the ear, j
Wrapped in a trance of bliss, j
And gently drawn in loving arms j l
To swoon to that—from this. I (
Scarce knowing if we wake or sleep, 11
Scarce asking where we are, 1 (
To feel all evil sink away, l!
All sorrow and all care. | j
  (Mrs.) H. B. Stowe. |
A PRAYER. !
0 my God! I turn to Thee Ij
In my utter misery. j
Wilt Thou not on me let fall j
T/iy smile ? to compensate for all ]
The disappointment, sorrow, woe,
Which still attend the path I go. i
Have I, not drunk enough of tears j
Through all these long and wasting years ;
And trod my path with aimless feet,
Because I never yet could meet j
One gleam of hope, whose kindling ray I
Might brighten the oncoming day, j
And shew the road Thy saints have trod, i (
Would bring me near to Thee, my God! ] j
Son of the Father ! who didst say, j i
When here Thou walkedst day by day,
That not a sparrow e’er did fall
Unmark’d by Him who made us all— ! |
Thou, who didst comfort the distressed, f
And promise to the weary rest, ' H
Who bade us take Thy yoke and hind
It to us, if we hoped to find
The peace we vainly seek to know, j i
As wearily our way we go— i1
0 Saviour, in my hour of grief, 11
I turn to Thee and ask relief. j1
0 gracious Spirit! boundless Love!
In whom all living creatures move
And draw the breath by which they live, j i
Whose attribute it is to give,
Shed down Thy light upon my soul,
And make my Avounded spirit whole.
Lay on my heart that holy calm
Which is the only blessed balm
For souls grown weary of the strife
Of this strange thing called human life!
Give me the rest for which I crave,
And lift me high above the grave,
Of buried hope and fruitless fear
And doubt, the fellest demon here
Of all the foes I have to fight,
In seeking for the true and right.
0 grant the rest of Thee I crave
And lift my soul from out the grave !
B. M. P. G.
(grumsponnence.
[Qreatfreedomis given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should he kept hy the writers.]
MATERIALISM AND METAPHYSICS.
Sm,—Without going into the question how far the eight distin¬
guished writers enumerated by Mr. Atkinson can all properly be de¬
scribed as both materialists and metaphysicians, I may excuse the
expression “ metaphysical ignorance ” by urging that to ignore an
argument—to betray not the least sense or perception of its bearing
upon a question which cannot possibly be determined without refer¬
ence to it—is really equivalent to, and may practically be treated as,
ignorance of it.
I do not in the least plead guilty to the impertinent presumption im¬
puted to me hy Mr. Atkinson, for whose own acquirements, let me say
at once, in case he should further notice me, I have so much respect
that I esteem his notice an honour.
But I was wrong. It is not ignorance, but the attitude of mind,
which made Hume say of Berkeley’s idealism, “ It admits of no reply,
and produces no conviction.” Had the demonstration of the earth’s
revolution been addressed solely to the intellect, (and we know that
Cremonini, a very learned man, refused to verify it by the senses), some
astronomical Hume would have dismissed it with the same remark.
Materialism comes naturally to every one. It belongs to the infancy,
and not to the maturity of speculation.
The complacent assumptions of materialism, which, regarded from
the metaphysical standpoint, provoke the doubt of metaphysical com¬
petence, are especially noticeable in Mr. Atkinson’s letter—“Men who
are content to take facts as they find them, and they find that there is
a sensitive substance first, and as the essential basis of sensation.”
How often must we ask, “ What is the substance, and where do you
find it 1 ” What we find first in speculation is, of course, the question
to be determined. What we find first in experience is that which
metaphysical analysis shows to exist only in and for experience—
the phenomenon which is bound together, which has unity and con¬
sistence only by virtue of the laws and forms of consciousness, and
which is dispersed—annihilated—as soon as those bonds are cut. Mr.
Atkinson knows this, for he said in a former letter, “ We have nothing
to do with things in themselves.” But if we have only to do with a
phenomenal world, how does he distinguish this from a world in con¬
sciousness? Now, however, he seems disposed to hark back to the
“primary qualities” (form, weight, &c.), and he makes the astonish¬
ing statement (for a well-informed metaphysician) that “idealists
mostly refer to colour,” rather than these. Why, that was the old
standpoint of Locke’s time ; and the great landmarks of metaphysical
speculation since then are the demonstration of Berkeley that the so-
called primary qualities are equally subjective with the secondary; and
the demonstration of Kant, that space—extension—is a mere form of
sensuous intuition. So thoroughly have these old strongholds of
realism been shattered, that Mr. Noel, in the article I quoted, could
describe the opposite view as now universally acknowledged by the
competent.
The position of materialism is just this—It is either ontological, and
then its matter is a non-extended substance, which may just as appro¬
priately, and more in conformity with popular ideas, be called spirit
(with which it will ultimately be found to coincide, and thus will the
controversy be resolved); or it deals only with the phenomenal order,
and then it is self-contradictory, for ex vi termini phenomena exist only
in consciousness, as a modification of consciousness, and thus cannot be
the substrata of the latter.
When Mr. Atkinson says again that “ metaphysical speculation never
led to anything of value,” I reply, it has at least this valuable result—-
that it shows that materialistic theory must ultimately be just as
transcendental, just as speculative, just as much beyond possible ex¬
perience, as the metaphysical theories which materialists reproach with
these fundamental difficulties.
Physical science—the ordering of phenomena and their laws—is not
materialism, and the man of physical science may, for his own purposes
perhaps, quite reasonably decline to entertain questions of philosophy.
But he has not chosen to do so, and in advancing higher pretensions,
he steps “jeuseit Erfahrung,” and must become a metaphysician, or
involve himself in confusions and contradictions which to metaphysicians
will seem to result from ignorance of their science.
In your paper of July 20th, Mr. Atkinson finds fault with me for
speaking of the matter of the materialists as a “hypothetical dead
something,” whereas he defines it as an “ active cause, source or principle,
of all phenomena or effects whatsoever, life and mind included.” Surely
Mr. Atkinson cannot have persuaded himself that there is anything
distinctive of materialism in such a definition as this. Is it not very
evidently an abstraction, barren of consequences, and resorted to under
stress of the idealist argument ? In Lange’s History of Materialism,*
on the other hand, the distinctive character of the system is said to
involve these propositions—“ The purely material nature of matter, the
origination of all phenomena, including those of adaptation and spirit,
through movements of matter according to universal laws of motion.”—
Yol. L, p. 96.
Will Mr. Atkinson say that these requisites can be fulfilled without
recourse to any phenomenal conceptions? Is unextended matter
“ purely material ” ? Does motion not imply space ? Do “movements
of matter ” not imply a multiplicity of substances ? Thus we come
back to atomism as the fundamental and inevitable postulate of all
materialistic systems.
My immature opinions, in their positive aspect, can have no interest
for any one, so I shall not attempt to define my “shade of idealism”
* A book strongly recommended by, and translated into English at the instance of,
Professor Huxley,
141
Sept. 21, 1877. THE SPIBITUALIST.
for Mr. Atkinson. It is materialism that is aggressive, not idealism in ] j |
any of its special forms, but only critically. To propose a right j|l
question, it has been said, is the half of philosophy ; and the writings i j
of materialists only serve to convince me that the study of Eant and j j!
his successors is essential to the clear appreciation of the problems that j||
underlie all thought. m
If Mr. Atkinson really considers the Critique of the Pure Reason j|i
has done nothing for human knowledge, I can only marvel at the 1(1
singularity of his opinion. C. C. Massey.
September 14th.   I (j
A SEANCE IN PARIS. Wj
Sir,—I returned on Saturday from a week’s visit to Paris, during |(|
which I saw the funeral of M. Thiers, and had the privilege of attend- |) j
ing two seances with Count de Bullet, Mr. O’Sullivan, and their excel- ||
lent medium, Mr. Firman. In some respects the manifestations are |'(j
stronger than those we have had at Malvern, and I cannot speak too \\\
well of the busts, so accurately described by Mr. O’Sullivan. They are M l
of very remarkable beauty, and must, I think, carry conviction to the | j
mind of any intelligent person. j |
I do not need to say this, for the clearness, the accuracy, and the |j|
evident sincerity of Mr. O’Sullivan must be apparent to every one who I i
reads his letters. I have known him for thirty years. He is in every i I
way an unimpeachable witness, and the world owes a large debt of m
gratitude to the patient and careful investigations of Count de Bullet. I i
I write this merely to give some tests to me, personally. in
Before I left Malvern, a materialised form said to me, iC You are j j
going to Paris, and will probably be invited to see some manifestations ! |
there. I will try to be present, and will make myself known to you by j j
giving you five distinct knocks on your head. Any one might give | ]
three knocks, but I will give you five.” j |
Of course, I mentioned it to no one ; but the first seance I attended in I !
Paris, an invisible, first tapped my hands lightly, and then gave five | j
strong distinct knocks, apparently with the ends of his fingers on my j
head. !
Next day he came visibly, talked with me, as with all the others |
present, and, the electric light being turned off, brought iu his hand !
a beautiful globe of light, about two-and-a-half inches in diameter, \
which he held so as to show his face very distinctly, even to the colour ;
and expression of his eyes. Then he repeated the five knocks on my |
head with the globe of light, which he permitted me to handle freely. |
It was as hard as alabaster, smooth, solid, and full of white light. He !
allowed us all to smell it, holding it in turn to the nose of each person, j
It has a pleasant odour resembling that of the heliotrope, or vanilla, i
As one of us sniffed it, he put it to his own nose and sniffed it also j I
several times. The light in the ball faded out before our eyes, and |
within twenty inches of them ; then it became bright again, and about j
one-third smaller. j
He took my hand as one would that of an old friend, shook it, i
grasped it firmly as I did his, and at one time squeezed my fingers j/
about as much as I could bear. There was no room for doubt as to the 1 (
reality of this person, and there was no possibility of imposture. After \)
a brief, but very interesting, seance, he said, “ Good-bye, God bless j
you,” fervently to each person present, and sent messages by me to
some in England.
I think we may get frequent tests between distant circles by bringing
them into rapport. I do not in the least trouble myself with theories
or hypotheses, or as to what may be the influence of these manifesta¬
tions, but only with the question of fact. If they are diabolical, they
settle the matter of materialism all the same. If the devil chooses to
come and demonstrate his existence, those who believe in a devil ought
to be much obliged to him. I do not see that he would be anxious to
do so. In fact, the only authentic case of his making a personal com¬
munication occurred some years ago in this same wonderful city of
Paris, where he wrote during a dark seance—
Je riexists pas.
Satan.
That was considered perfectly satisfactory.
T. L. Nichols, M.D.
Malvern. -—
FUNERAL REFORM.
Sir,—Will you allow me to bring before your numerous readers the
claims of an association with which, I trust, a large proportion of them
will entirely sympathise ? I allude to the “ Funeral and Mourning
Reform Association,” with which the name of Mr. Serjeant Cox has
been so honourably associated. The second annual report of the society
was published some months since, and is well worthy of perusal by all
social reformers. The number of members has this year been increased
by 72, and recently I have had the great pleasure and satisfaction of
adding to our list the well-known name of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
I trust sincerely that her good example will be followed by many other
Spiritualists. The Earl of Essex is the patron of the association, whilst
Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P. (well-known for his splendid
speech advocating the opening of museums, &c., on Sundays), Alex. Mac-
Arthur, M.P,, W. U. Heygate, M.P., are among the number of the
presidents.
Not only is a large proportion of the English counties represented by
this association, more or less numerously, but also Ireland, Scotland,
Wales, and the little island of Guernsey. This fact shows how widely
the necessity for this reform is felt. To the report for this year is
added a most useful form of directions as to funerals; and much diffi¬
culty and expense would be spared to survivors if all who are awake to
the necessity for this reform, and wish to have their funerals conducted
iu a rational and unostentatious manner, would simply write out and
sign this short formula, and so ensure that the principles they have
professed during life might not be violated in death. The necessity for
this precaution has been illustrated in a case mentioned in the report as
being of recent date, when the funeral of a member of the association
was conducted in a manner entirely at variance with the views he had
always entertained and expressed.
For the purpose of enabling all to assist in this much-needed reform,
the terms of membership have been fixed at 2s. per annum only; I,
therefore, earnestly ask all your readers who can afford this trifling
outlay to give this truly good cause the benefit of their countenance and
support; and by their protest against this national absurdity and extra¬
vagance—doubly absurd and inconsistent when viewed in the light of
Spiritualism—assist in saving many a pound to the poor widows and
helpless families of those who now (to use their own dismal phraseology)
conscientiously believe that the only means of “ showing respect for the
dead ” is to empty the already too slender purse of the living.
I shall be pleased to send rules, form of membership, and report, on
application. Eliza Boucher.
Albion Villa, Henrietta-square, Bristol.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—In commenting on a paper of mine which appeared in your
issue of August 31st ult., Mr. O’Sullivan suggests that the time is ripe
for the publication of a collection of such cases of spirit identity as I
there make mention of. I find myself of a totally different opinion. A
mere collection of published cases would have little value. They are
already on record. Most cases known to me could not be printed with
that fulness of detail which should be given to render them of value as
pieces of evidence. One must in decency show some respect to friends
who are still with us, and whose feelings we have no right to outrage.
And a mere crude collection of stories full of dashes, asterisks, and
initials would be worthless.
Such facts as I can use will find their due place in my contemplated
volume of researches. Most of the cases known to me must remain in
my journal for future use, when the present obvious reasons for reticence
are removed.
May I point out to Mr. O’Sullivan without discourtesy that my paper
was signed M.A. (Oxon.), and that he violates literary etiquette in
attributing it—whether rightly or wrongly I do not say—to any person
by name ? I use a nom de plume well and widely known, and I must
be allowed to take my own time and place for altering or removing it.
M.A. (Oxon.)
THE HEALING POWERS OF MESMERISM.
Sir,—I was afflicted with a white swelling in my knee about two
months ago. The swelling came on very slowly, and I did not feel
much pain at first, but the pain became unbearable at night, accom¬
panied by great heats. I could not walk at last. In this condition
most likely I should have had to have gone to the hospital, but, for¬
tunately for me, a gentleman, a Mr. Regan, had his attention drawn to
the case; but he did not look at or examine my knee. After hearing
me describe my state, he mesmerised me some paper, also some strips
of flannel, and ordered me to bind them round my knee, and not to take
| j them off until he gave me some more. I did as I was told by Mr.
11 Regan, and I passed a much easier night than I had done for some time.
| On examining my knee next morning, I found that the swelling had
| moved to the back of the leg; the pain was much less, and I could
j j stand with less difficulty. I also found that the heat was not so great,
j During the subsequent three weeks I kept on having the mesmerised
j paper renewed each week, and at the expiration of that time I am
| happy to state that my knee was completely cured; the soreness was
| gradually drawn from it, and it lost all its pain; it was left rather tender
i after the swelling had gone. Now I am able to walk as well as ever.
11 Sarah Barsted.
h 16, Bloomsbury-street, Vauxhall-bridge-road,
| 10th September, 1877.  
>1 MESMERISM AT LOURDES.
! Sir,—I have read with much pleasure the very sensible and practical
| i remarks of my old friend Captain James on the subject of mesmerism.
I Many persons like Mr. Serjeant Cox suppose that the influence of the
(i mesmeriser arises simply from the effect produced upon the imagination
| of the patient, and no doubt some cases, such as those reported in the
| papers as having occurred at Lourdes, may be attributed to that cause.
J i But this is a matter in respect to which similar effects are produced
1 from different causes. In my early experience I put this matter to the
j | test, and in a hundred instances caused the mesmeric sleep without
j! the persons having any knowledge of what I was about, which
jj of course completely refutes the theory of Mr. Braid, as explaining
| the whole matter, as well as that in respect to the ima-
j! gination. Neither of these theories account for the undoubted
[ | fact of sympathy at a distance, or thought-reading or brain sympathy
| near at hand. We really must not generalise from particular instances,
I or from one class of facts, but seek an interpretation from all the corre-
| lated facts concerned.
J | I have j ust been astonished by the account of what is going on at
j Lourdes from a learned physician and friend of Dr. Slade just returned
| from the spot. He tells me that a certain priest actually now performs
| the mesmeric process on the patient before your eyes, and he says that
i many have been cured in this way, but chiefly those suffering from
II nervous complaints. The cures are regarded as miracles, and attributed
j I to the influence and intervention of the Virgin. I will not say more upon
(I this astonishing matter at present, since my friend will, I hope, give in
[ I his full report in writing. In this case I doubt not that the strong in-
] | fluence on the minds of the patients operates, together with the direct
(j influence of the mesmeriser, selected no doubt for his remarkable gift
} | of mesmeric power and healing sanatory influence. I think I have said
(I enough in proof of the existence of such an influence, and whether it
142
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 21, 1877.
be called “ mesmeric ” or “ animal magnetic ” matters little. It was
named “ animal magnetism ” by Mesmer because many of the facts
have a close resemblance to the phenomena of magnetism. But we will
not quarrel about words, and I think Mr. Harrison did well to retain
Dr. Gregory’s expression in republishing his work, which is really much
the best book on the subject on which it treats.
Henry Gr. Atkinson, F.Gr.S.
2, Quai de la Douane, Boulogne.
MR. morse’s ANNUAL SOIREE.
Sir,—At the request of the spirit friends of our well-known
medium, Mr. J, J. Morse, I desire your permission to put forth the
following appeal for assistance to that earnest worker in our cause.
In consequence of the late disturbed condition of the Spiritual move¬
ment throughout the country, combined with the depressed condition
of trade, our friend has not been so well sustained during the past
year as is usual, and he now stands in need of pecuniary assistance.
A special complimentary benefit soiree will therefore be held at the
Cavendish Booms, Mortimer-street, Begent-street, London, on Wed¬
nesday evening, October the 17th, and in order that the proposed.
soiree may successfully accomplish the end in view, I shall be pleased
to receive any assistance in the shape of donations from Spiritualists
at large, to be applied towards defraying the necessary expenses.
It is intended to present the proceeds to Mr. Morse. As this soiree
will be coincident with the eighth anniversary of his labours, it will
form a pleasing tribute to him if the friends of the cause will do their
best to make the meeting a success, and thus mark their appreciation
of his services.
Donations will be thankfully received by me, at 16, Southampton-
street, Fitzroy-square; tickets, 2s. 6d., with tea. One shilling after
eight o’clock. The tickets can also be had at the doors on the night
of the meeting. Agnes Maltby.
16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, London.
THE ORIGIN OF MAN.
To the Editor of the “ Western Morning News'*
Sir,—The following on this subject of never-failing interest may be
acceptable:—
At Brighton recently, a trance medium, under professed spiritual inspi¬
ration, defined man to be a trinity composed of the material body, the
spiritual body (pervading the material body, and corresponding with it,
atom to atom), and the sopl. The second of these was said to be developed
from the first, and to have ascended with it originally from elementary
matter—“from mud to monad, from monad to man”; and that thus,
after the lapse of ages, the casket was sufficiently perfected to receive
the Divine spark, the immortal soul. This theory has the advantage
of fitting in with the Mosaic account of the creation of man—under¬
standing that account in its figurative and not in its literal sense—
but some minds may still see difficulties in the way of its acceptance,
and for my own part I do not regard the utterances of trance mediums
as infallible. Henry Wellesley.
Marazion, September 13th, 1877.
THE SPIBIT’S MODE OF EXISTENCE.
This essential substance, this conscious being-, has relation
to time or duration, for this state or that may abide so long,
an hour, a day, a month, a year, but it is not to be measured
by the yard or pint, for it has no relation to space. That is,
it endures, but it does not extend; it exists in time, it does
not occupy space or fill so much room. And that the soul is
not physical is also evident from the fact that it has a
different order of being from outward objects. We cannot
perceive mind or any of its faculties by the senses alone;
there must be the mind behind them, using them as instru¬
ments, or, be they never so perfect, intelligence to them has
no existence. That, therefore, which is not an object of the
senses is of a different nature from that which is so. We know,
then, that there is a spiritual substance, which also has its
attributes, as well as that there is a physical substance,
which also has its attributes. Or in the words of Paul, that
there is a physical body, and that there is a spiritual body.
The unity and constancy of personal identity prove the
clear distinction between the body and the soul. The unity
of the sense of personality is an ineradicable conviction of the
mind. The “ I,” which thinks, perceives, knows, is indivis¬
ible. I receive impressions through touch, taste, and hear¬
ing, through sight and smell, of infinite variety, but the self
which receives them remains ever essentially the same. And
as it is the self receives impressions, so is the self one and
indivisible which sends forth streams of thought, wishes,
hopes, and aspirations. ' It is a centre from which spiritual
forces radiates. I know by consciousness that I am distinct
from others, and that others are distinct from me. However
numerous and diversified my thoughts, mental operations and
emotions are the issue of this one person’s vital force—that is
of the essential self. Moreover thefacts of my past history how¬
ever remote, when recalled by memory are identified as belong-
| | ing to me, as their agent and owner, as much as the act of
| | writing in which I am now engaged. There is no break in
| | the continuity, and none in the personality. This conscious-
jjl ness of personal identity amidst diversity of personal expe-
l|| rience; this evidently permanent something, which is
]1 specially myself, is incompatible with a merely physical
| j being. What is it that maintains this unbroken identity,
I I this absolute sense of personal unity amidst the constant
| | and sweeping changes in the material body, which con-
I ] stantly dissolves and renews it? Physical it cannot be; for
| | that, in every part, has passed away during bygone years;
| | and, materially, we are not at all the same we were some
II years ago. If this be so, it follows that our inner and
| | essential selfhood is not physical, but is an entity distinct
| i from the body. The fact is, that on the principles of mate-
| | rialism the continuous identity of man’s being is impossible.
| | There is something which continues one and the same
j il throughout all changes; but it is utterly impossible that
| | we can tell how this can be if man is not essentially a
| | spiritual nature.
I | Another thing which shows the difference between soul
l|| and body, and so helps to strengthen faith in the inde¬
ll structible permanence of man’s selfhood, is the difference
| | between the objects and aims of the physical and spiritual
| | natures, showing that however intimately connected they are
| | not identical. For instance, sensation is common to men
| | and animals by a common medium, the nervous system; but
| | they never attain any ends but physical ones, unless they are
j i used by some power other than themselves—that is the
I I Mind. “ The anatomist and physiologist tell us that every
i | part of man’s body derives its life, sensation, and motion,
I | from two sets of nerves, issuing from the spinal cord—a pro-
| | longation of the brain. Now it is impossible for any-
I | thing to proceed from itself, or to be the creator of its own
I | properties; and as it is equally impossible that organisation
]|| can be a property, dependent for existence on the
if substance of which it is predicated, it becomes evident
1 (| that the operations of the brain through the whole organisa-
| | tion, are none other than the expression of the properties of
I | independent substance ”—call that substance by what name
| | we may. Sensation is produced by the vibration of a nerve
| I having its root in the brain, constituting it its feeler to that
I | part of the body through which it runs ; the brain being the
| | immediate but not the only organ of the mind. But what
| | needs taking note of is, that communications may come
^ | from either within or from without. A blow tingles through
| the system and reaches the mind through the nerves, filling
| it with anger, shame, or fear, as the case may be. A painful
| thought depresses the body, making it heavy and dull; a
I pleasant one quickens the circulation of the blood. Emotion
| acts at once and immediately.—William Mitchell, in Tfie
I Truthseeker.
I Mr. James Coates willshortly be in the north of Ireland lecturing on
(! mesmerism.
| Mr. Algernon Joy returned from the Continent last Wednesday, and
i is now attending to the work of the secretarial department of the
| National Association of Spiritualists.
I Miss Kislingbury, secretary to the British National Association of
I Spiritualists, reached New York a fortnight ago, visited Dr. Crowell,
! Madame Blavatsky, and Colonel Olcott, and attended one of the
| Sunday meetings of Spiritualists. After a few days’ stay in New York,
| she left, with a friend, for Niagara.
i Mr. Colville, the trance medium, has taken the Langham Hall,
i Portland-street, London, for a few Monday evenings, and is there
! delivering inspirational addresses, to which the public are admitted
(j free. On Saturday afternoons, at four o’clock, he delivers trance
| i addresses to members and friends of the National Association of Spirit-
/ i ualists, at 38, Great Bussell-street, at which those present have the
( ! opportunity of questioning at their leisure the intelligences controlling
| i him.
j | Faith and Knowledge.—Paul said, “ Add to your faith knowledge’’;
) I modern Christians say, “ All religious truth is known by faith.” Spirit-
I ualists say the same as Paul, only in different words—“ Found your
Jt faith upon knowledge.” Faith is only an instrument, but an important
(i instrument, by which we dimly perceive the truth. Knowledge with
l i Spiritualists is derived from the use, not of the imagination alone, but
(| of all the faculties and means God has given us, including the external
? j senses. It is well known that dependence upon the impressions received
({ exclusively through one sense is often unreliable. Those who rely upon
| faith alone cannot be assured of correct knowledge, like those who derive
I theirs from the exercise of various associated, but correcting faculties,
(| —.Crowell.
Sept. 21, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
143
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE. ]
The London Journal of September 8th published a likeness of Mrs. |(j
Weldon, also the following particulars in relation to her endeavours to i/j
benefit helpless children:— j
We may cite Mrs. Weldon as an example of what a woman with a | <!
purpose will undergo—what trials she will endure, what discouragements ]) j
face, what aspersions she will encounter in order to successfully accom- j) |
plish the object to which she has committed herself. At the outset of I jj
her life, young, beautiful, well-born, accomplished, a vocalist of unusual | j i
excellence, Mrs. Weldon was the object of admiration and adulation of
the society in which she moved, “ the observed of all observers.” j jj
She was, as Miss Treherne, and subsequently as Mrs. Weldon, the |)j
idol of a circle including among its numbers members of the highest j)i
rank. Wealthy and without care, she pursued the career to which |(|
ladies of her class are accustomed, when, in the ninth year of her Hi
married life, she was unexpectedly consulted respecting the musical m
education of the daughter of a Welsh country parson. j jj
About this time Mrs. Weldon had been framing a plan for the founding i j j
of a school for music, and although she had never given a singing lesson j 1 i
in her life, she commenced to teach Miss Gwendoline Jones vocalism, jji
Out of that act sprang the school now established by her at Tavistock j jj
House, Russell-square, London, which for many years was the residence j j j
of the late Charles Dickens. j j j
We have not space to record the trials, rebuffs, and we may say afflic- j j j
tions, Mrs. Weldon has passed through in her attempts to fulfil what j jj
she has conceived to be her mission. Those who may feel a desire to i j i
become acquainted with the details of a very romantic life can gratify j j!
their wish by attending any Monday evening at Langham Hall, Great j j
Portland-street, and listening to Mrs. Weldon’s history of her orphanage, j j j
which is also a history of her own life. j j j
It appears that her husband did not enter into the scheme of his wife’s j j j
ideal school with enthusiasm. Indeed, he viewed it while being founded j j j
with distaste, and declined to share in an undertaking which had re- j jj
solved itself into withdrawing from the streets dirty, diseased orphans, j j j
and placing them beneath his roof, to be fed, clothed, and educated, j j j
Mrs. Weldon, refusing to surrender her task, therefore asked him to give I j j
her Tavistock House (the residue of the lease) and .£1,000 a year, saying j j j
she would carry on the work alone. He consented, and to use Mrs. j j j
Weldon’s own words, “ While I give my labour he gives much more jjj
than the tithe of all he possesses in charity, for he gives half of what is i j
his,” jjj
The children reared by this lady at Tavistock House are children for- j j
saken and without a friend in the world but her. She has caught up the j j j
undersized and the ragged, many afflicted with loathsome diseases, the j j j
utterly wretched and forlorn, and now she shows that they are healthy, j j j
well cared for, and brought up as she declares she would have brought j J j
up her own children. Unfortunately, the money she possesses is insuffi- j j j
cient for the work she has undertaken, and she is compelled, therefore, j j j
to appeal to the benevolent to furnish her with some supplementary aid. j j j
There are no patrons, or vice-patrons, no committee, no secretary, no ijj
preventible expenses, and, unfortunately, no subscribers to her orphan- j j j
age. Mrs. Weldon devotes not only all the £1,000 received from her jjj
husband to the support of her little ones, but, as well, even the pin j j j
money received from her mother for her own use, but it is inadequate to jjj
the wants ever springing up. jj
That Mrs. Weldon has been successful with some of her pupils in her j j
method of teaching is proved by the fact that her pupils, Miss Gertrude j j
Bradwen and Miss Marion Westmacott, gained the first and fifth vocal j i
scholarships at the South Kensington Training School for Music, and j ■
that the Rawlings family, who commenced under her tuition, can “ com- j j
pose, sing solos, part songs, play the piano, hand bells, &c.” j J j
We do not take upon ourselves the responsibility of advocating either j j
Mrs. Weldon’s method of teaching music, or the principles on which ijj
she manages her school, but we cannot lose sight of the fact that, for the j J j
sake of saving some of the wretched little outcasts born, as it were, to jjj
misery and crime, she devotes her fortune and her life, that she submits j j j
to the difficulties attendant on such work, to the unworthy, detracting j j j
suspicions of ungenerous minds, that she unrepiningly sacrifices the j j
pleasures of the world, and accepts a career of toil and anxiety for the j j j
sake of doing good to wretched and hapless orphans. We do not, there- j j
fore, hesitate to say that such self-abnegation should meet with some j j
share of that pecuniary support which is too often freely accorded to jjj
institutions not half so deserving as Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage. jjj
Public Opinion says—“ Biography seems to be spoilt as an exact j j
science, by the two axioms, that it’s rude to speak ill of the living, and j j
it’s wrong to speak ill of the dead.” j j
A Spiritualistic Book,—Lot 1470.—Reginald Scot’s “Discoverib j
of Witchcraft,” curious woodcuts, black letter, fine copy, morocco extra, j
gilt edges, bound by Riviere; published in London by W. Brome in i
1584. Sold at Messrs. Sotheby and Co.’s auction, August 27th, 1877, !
for £14 10s. j
Disorderly Spirits.—No theory of a distinct order of spiritual jj
ruffians and ragamuffins, with a Satan at their head, is needed to ex- jj
plain all these manifestations of spiritual malignity, ignorance, and ij
disorder. We have but to consider the thousands of miscreated, jj
rudimental beings that leave this planet every day, and every hour, jj
and we shall lessen the difficulties of the great problem of spiritual j j
evil without the intervention of any hypothesis so derogatory to divine j j
benevolence and omnipotence as that of an antagonistic archon in the ij
great world of causes, privileged to hound on the hosts of mischief and j j
of wrong for the purpose of making this earth a sort of initiatory hell, ij
Spiritualism dispels all such monstrous conceits, and offers a rational jj
explanation of the perplexing facts.—Epes Sargent. jj
SPIRITUALISM IN ULYERSTON.
Last week a three nights’ discussion on the question, “Is modern
Spiritualism based on Scientifically Attested Facts ? ” took place in the
Temperance Hall, Ulverston, between Mr. J. W. Mahony, of Birming¬
ham, and Dr. John Anderson, of the former place. In February last
Mr. Mahony lectured on Spiritualism at Ulverston, and, soon after, a
lecture against it was delivered at the same place by the Rev. Walter
Briscombe, Wesleyan minister, of Barrow. Mr. Mahony more recently
challenged Dr. Anderson, who had opposed him on the occasion of his
lecture, to discuss the subject in public, and the contest came off on Mon¬
day, Tuesday, and Wednesday evenings, last week. Mr. Robert Casson
presided on the first and third nights, and Mr. Thomas Edward Jones,
the pioneer of Spiritualism in Ulverston, on the second evening. The
proceedings commenced with the reading by the Chairman of the rules
for the discussion, which provided that each disputant should open his
case independently, in a speech of half an hour’s duration, and that the
remaining speeches should not exceed a quarter of an hour each, the
third night to be devoted to the answering by each debater of questions
from the audience.
Mr. Mahony, in opening the debate, said that the subject he had to
defend was met at the very threshold with peculiar difficulties, princi¬
pally due to the ignorance which prevailed concerning psychological
science, men being so absorbed in thinking about their material welfare,
but partly due to Spiritualism being mixed up with one of the most
profound and comprehensive sciences that could engage the attention of
man. Mr. Mahony then defined modern Spiritualism to be a system
based upon evidence that the spirits of deceased human beings could
and did communicate, through the instrumentality of mediums, with
those still in the flesh; though he remarked that much besides was
comprehended in Spiritualism. He then proceeded to say that the
word “scientific” really meant “accurate;’’ scientific observation
meant correct observation; and upon such observation Spiritualism was
founded. It was not necessary for him to prove that certain learned
organisations had come before the world with collective evidence in
favour of Spiritualism, but all that was necessary was to prove that the
facts had been accurately attested by men of culture, learning, and
standing. Mr. Mahony then asserted that scientific bodies never
came forward collectively to investigate new facts, but left them to be
determined by individuals, and instanced as a case in point the dis¬
covery by Franklin that lightning could be conducted by a wire. Mr.
Mahony then maintained that the facts of Spiritualism had been certi¬
fied by men of high culture and scientific standing, and that the
phenomena were proved to result from the agency of disembodied
spirits, in the personal identity of departed human beings being
established by some of the communications. He detailed the origin of
modem Spiritualism with the Fox girls in America, and the obtaining
through their mediumship of communications, by means of raps, from
the spirit-world, including one setting forth that a pedlar had been
murdered in the house and buried in the cellar, in which human
remains were afterwards discovered. (Laughter). The speaker also
cited the elaborate experiments of the celebrated Professor Hare, a
materialist, of America, who had messages spelt out on an alphabetical
disc concealed from the medium, and whose investigations converted
him to Spiritualism. He also adduced the report of the committee of
the Dialectical Society, that the phenomena of Spiritualism were due to
some external agency, and not to imposition or trickery.
Dr. Anderson, who was received with applause, then proceeded to
read a paper in the negative, remarking before commencing it that it
had been written during the past few weeks, during which time
only had be given any attention to Spiritualism; his mind had been
directed to it by the earlier lecture given by Mr. Mahony. The Doctor’s
paper was of the following substanceThey were now assembled to
discuss whether modern Spiritualism was a true and valuable revelation,
or a discovery based on fully attested phenomena, or whether it was the
outcome of deceit, conscious fraud, and misapprehension. His conten¬
tion was that what Mr. Crookes and other honest Spiritualists had
observed as or supposed to be spiritual manifestations were appearances
in nature with no connection whatever with spirit-life, or were the
creations of a peculiarly and exceptionally constituted cerebral organisa¬
tion. Within historical periods ignorance, learned as well as unlettered,
had been the concomitant of superstition. The superstitions of the
ancient Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans, seemed to be a flickering re¬
vival of the same rash mysticism. (Applause.) He hoped the late Lord
Brougham’s Schoolmaster Abroad might be able to do something towards
the education and enlightenment of ourselves and children, in anticipa¬
tion and prevention of such enervating vagaries. (Applause.) His
argument against Spiritualism was that scientific knowledge furnished
no data by which we could recognise and differentiate a spiritual body.
Psychologists were agreed that we never, as at present constituted, could
know what mind or matter was in itself; therefore our only knowledge
consisted in the phenomenal. It was only in sensation and conscious¬
ness that we could ever know anything of an external world. Physio¬
logists, chemists, anatomists, would examine by every scientific method,
but the Spiritualist was afraid of an atmosphere of incredulity vitiating
the test conditions of a Spiritualistic seance. (Applause.) Dr. Ander¬
son proceeded to criticise what he called the theory of the existence
of spirits, which inserted themselves into human bodies and assumed
the functions of the medium’s intelligence, and produced table-moving,
slate-writing, and so on, and he asked why could we not get the table
itself to speak. (Laughter and applause.) He remarked that with
regard to the notion that the human spirit is a thing separate from the
human body, we might fairly ask the grounds upon which such an idea
was founded. He argued that if immaterial, the spirit could not be en¬
dowed with the properties and functions of matter, namely, figure,
colour, divisibility, and capability of contact, therefore it was beyond
the reach of science; and it could not exist as a separate entity without
144
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept. 21, 1877.
re*creation apart from the body and capability of being scientifically
bandied or tested. If material, though in the theory of the materiality
of the human soul there was some plausibility and consistency, it
possessed the qualities of matter and was not a spirit. Dr. Anderson
had not finished his paper at the expiration of the prescribed time.
Mr. Mahony, in reply, charged Dr. Anderson with having advanced
a string of ideas peculiar to himself that had scarcely any relevancy to
the subject. (Hear, hear.) He called on him to attack and, if pos¬
sible, confute the facts he had laid down. He pointed out that spirit
was immaterial, something of totally dissimilar properties to matter,
and said that we could not lay a spirit on a board and measure it—we
could not lay hold of it and analyse it any more than we could electricity
or light. Mr. Mahony, alluding to Dr. Anderson’s remark as to why a
table did not speak, said table-moving and rapping were only the
alphabet of Spiritualism, and maintained that the communications given
were proved to be spiritual by the intelligence manifested, and by the
fact that correct minutiae of the past lives of the deceased were given,
with which those present were sometimes not acquainted, but which
were afterwards proved to be true.
Dr. Anderson having made some preliminary observations, resumed
the reading of his paper, which continued in a highly metaphysical
style, the chief points brought out being objections that seances were
not held in open daylight, that the phenomena might be capable of
examination by all sensible men, and also that certain conditions were
required for their production. He also accused the investigators of
Spiritualism of having been animated by prejudices in its favour.
Mr. Mahony, in reply, said that Dr. Anderson appeared to be utterly
unaware that thousands of stances were held in broad daylight, and he
asserted that Spiritualism only demanded certain conditions, as did all
scientific experiments; and those who became convinced of Spiritualism,
so far from being influenced by prejudice in its favour, entered on the
investigation with the most intense prejudice against it, as, for instance,
Professor Hare, who went into it with the determination to put it down.
Mr. Mahony also cited the experience of Mr. T. P. Barkas, in the
obtainment by him of correct answers, automatically written, from a
lady medium, on the most abstruse subjects, with which she had no
acquaintance.
The Chairman said that Dr. Anderson would reserve his reply for the
following evening.
Dr. Anderson, the following evening, did not reply to Mr. Mahony’s
speech, but read a further manuscript, which had no relation to it. He
also read an account from Mr. Home’s new work of a seance at Florence,
and ironically commented upon it throughout, throwing out various sug¬
gestions as to how the phenomena might have been produced.
Mr. Mahony denounced Dr. Anderson’s insinuations that Mr. Home
and his friends were impostors, and challenged proof. He then re¬
counted the published experiences of Lord Brougham, Sir David
Brewster, and Professors Crookes and Wallace in support of the
genuineness of Home’s mediumship, and remarked that he was one of
the ablest and most reliable and recognised mediums in the movement.
Mr. Mahony described Mr. Crookes’ seance with Mr. Home, and the
experiments with the accordion, and during his description was inter¬
rupted by the exclamation, “ What about Dr. Monck’s musical box ? ’’
Mr. Mahony called upon Dr. Anderson to adduce some facts in support
of his assertions or confess his defeat. (Laughter, applause, and shouts
from the audience.) He pointed out how every new truth was at first
opposed, and said the truth of Spiritualism would one day be accepted
like them, when it had triumphed over ignorance and prejudice.
Dr. Anderson continued his readings from Mr. Home’s work, hazarding
manifold suggestions as to the means by which the phenomena there re¬
corded might be produced, and throwing in occasional sarcasms, which
caused much laughter.
Mr. Mahony said it was a most fortunate thing for Dr. Anderson he
had Mr. Home’s book; he was sure he did not know what he would
have done without it. (Laughter.) He (Dr. Anderson) did not advance
a shadow of evidence in support of his theory of imposture, while he
(Mr. Mahony) had given the clearest evidence that the facts and phe¬
nomena were scientifically attested. He charged Dr. Anderson with
having played a very childish part as a debater, which remark gave
rise to some clamour. He observed that if fifty cases of imposture
were proved, and he proved one of genuine mediumship, the truth of
Spiritualism was established. Mr. Mahony also charged Dr. Anderson
with materialism. He described the test of the moulding of spirit
hands and feet, and observed that an eminent sculptor had declared
that the moulds must have been produced from living models.
Dr. Anderson, in the course of his next speech, maintained that
exploits were performed by conjurors every day, far more wonderful
than the supposed spiritualistic manifestations, and asserted that the
communications described by Home as coming from a deceased woman
were detailments of experience in her past life, which might have been
ascertained within three hours before the seance.
Mr. Mahony, in his concluding speech for the evening, ridiculed the
theory that conjurors surpassed mediums, and said that the fact that the
manifestations occurred in so many families, and frequently with
children as the mediums, proved that conjuring had nothing to do with
them. He claimed that he had defeated Dr. Anderson, and closed his
address with an eloquent peroration.
The third evening the attendance, which had been moderate the
preceding nights, was much more numerous, and there was consider¬
able excitement and tumult; at one period the chairman threatened to
vacate his seat. By consent of the audience the two disputants were
allowed to continue their discussion for about an hour previous to ques¬
tions being put by the public. Dr. Anderson again produced his still
unfinished paper, and had been reading for some time what he had read
the preceding night, when he was reminded of that fact somewhat
abruptly by some one in the gallery. He quoted Dr. Carpenter’s argu¬
ments, and also read the sworn statement of Mrs. Culver, that the
rappings of the Fox girls had been produced by their toe and knee
joints.
Mr. Mahony, in his reply, characterised Dr. Carpenter as the most
unreliable scientific man in the country, he having been convicted over
and over again of inaccuracies; and he further pointed out that Mrs.
Culver’s confession had since been proved to be utterly false.
The questioning by the public was then proceeded with, and a large
number of well-selected interrogations were put by Mr. T. E. Jones and
others. Dr. Anderson was asked what test he would consider a satisfac¬
tory proof of Spiritualism; and he replied, the firing of a bullet at the
materialised form. In answer to another question, Mr. Mahony stated
that this test had absolutely been adopted in America. Being asked as
to the practical benefit of Spiritualism, Mr. Mahony replied that the
advantage of Spiritualism was that it proved immortality, and brought
home clearly our moral accountability, by proving that we moulded our
future life exactly by this one, and could not be emancipated by prayer
or any intervening grace from the consequences of our misdeeds, but
must work out our own salvation. He also said that Spiritualism had
converted thousands, including himself, from atheism.
Mr. Mahony admitted, in reply to other questions, that he believed
much medial power had been crushed out by the destruction of supposed
witches. He also asserted that spirit-forms could not be subjective
delusions, since they had been photographed.
Dr. Anderson, when asked how he reconciled his theory of imposture
in Dr. Slade’s case with Slade’s challenge to Lankester, and the asser¬
tion of the magistrate who convicted him that the evidence in favour of
the genuineness of his manifestations was overwhelming, declined to
reply, on the ground that “ the case was pending.” Confronted with the
alleged exposure of Miss Wood at Blackburn, Mr. Mahony attributed
it to the agency of bad spirits, and some excitement was caused by a
Blackburn gentleman claiming to speak on the subject, who, however,
was not allowed, because he would not put his remarks in the form of a
question. At the conclusion of the discussion the Chairman, who is
not a Spiritualist, delivered an address, in which he expressed his ad¬
miration of the spiritualistic doctrine of universal progression here¬
after, and his opinion that there was not so much “ tomfoolery” in
Spiritualism as some persons imagined.
The Mirror, which, though hostile to Spiritualism, has always re¬
ported meetings on the subject with exemplary impartiality, has pub¬
lished a column and a half of the discussion.
Cavre. Sebastiano Fenzi writes from Florence to the secretary to
the British National Association of Spiritualists:—“ In Florence we
possess two writing-mediums who obtain answers in Latin, a language
they neither of them know. The questions are, as a general rule,
asked mentally.”
Prayers for Rain.—A pathetic incident is described in a lately pub¬
lished letter from India as having taken place a few weeks ago at
Indore. A day was set apart in that town for interceding with the gods
for relief from the terrible prevailing drought. On the appointed day
the Maharajah and the members of the Royal family, followed by almost
the whole population of the town, to the number of about 15,000
persons, repaired to a village about two miles away, there to perform
the ceremonies considered appropriate to the occasion. Among these
ceremonies was that of the tilling of a part of the ground by the Maha¬
rajah, who took the plough in his hands for that purpose, and was
waited upon by Her Highness the Maharani, who “ played the part of
the peasant wife,” and brought her lord his daily meal, wrapped in the
folds of her cloth. The most singular part of the story is that these
appeals to the gods were followed by showers of rain, which of course
the people gratefully recognised as an answer to their prayers. Such a
fact is worth noting by those whose theory of the effic acy of prayer is
unwisely based almost entirely upon very similar circumstances.—
Christian World.
French and British Law about Clairvoyance.—The practice of
clairvoyance, as a means of making money, is a legal offence in Jersey,
where Madame Douglade, described as a French clairvoyante, and
Mrs. Slader, a medium, have been charged with obtaining money under
false pretences, and convicted. A Mrs. Petticart, who had lost some
money, consulted the prisoners concerning it, paying them 5s. as a fee.
The medium pretended to trace the money to the possession of Mrs.
Gosling, but stated that, as the weather was dull, she could not positively
declare she was the thief. Mrs. Petticart, however, told all her neigh¬
bours that Mrs. Gosling had her money, and, as she refused to retract
her statement, the latter complained to the police, and the prisoners
were arrested. Madame Douglade said she had long practised her pro¬
fession in Paris, and some of the police in Jersey had engaged her
services professionally, and had been satisfied with them. If so, the
police in Jersey must be very peculiar people. They can hardly be a
terror to evil-doers. The magistrate told prisoner that, however much
such practices were allowed in Paris, they could not be allowed here,
and he fined her £1 or five days’ imprisonment. The medium, Mrs.
Slader, was discharged.—The Echo, Sept. 18th.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C., Bradford.—A suitable subject for a theological journal.
A., Manchester.—We do not insert anonymous letters about professional per¬
formers.
Ogie.—Too personally aggressive.
A.—Your illegible writing unnecessarily occupies too much of the time of the
four or five persons through whose hands your letters pass before publica¬
tion ; and it is occasionally impossible to give the time requisite to puzzle
out their contents.
N.—Your letter contains neither new facts nor new ideas.
Sept. 21, 1877,
THE SPIKITTJALIST,
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
'aalism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not In any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per. volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay deftning the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
TOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OP ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.’
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
iilete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
jord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s. .
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Sjnri-
tualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature: Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and tho Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. od.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordmary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens1 these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. od.; cheap edition.
7s. Od.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, -Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshln of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world heyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s1. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair-
. voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An,American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BRYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . • . . IS 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . • .76
The Seer. ,,111, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. «. V. „ . . . • .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key to the Summer liand . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . ..60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . ,.60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime , .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . , .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . . ,30
Morning Lectures , , , , . , .70
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s di
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .... 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6 •
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism .14 "
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind‘; or, A Voice from the Canges,by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ■ ; .  10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
SlMULTANEOUSIiY WITNESSED BY THE AUTHOR AND OTHER
Observers in London.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-coneeived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of it priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistie throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than tho public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un ■
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.’’—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
graceful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Oo., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.O.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloauc-equare, S.W.
IV
THE SPIEITUALIST,
Sept. 21, 1877,
HE GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAY.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PBINCE
AXiBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes1
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, END’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
B contain—a bottle of END'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
END’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“Ifeel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Sombre y, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
relumed. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Greoory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain,
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub-,
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER iX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—^Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably tbe Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of tbe Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be S tudent^-Opposi lion to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion-
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases —Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Will be Published in a few days,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo. richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
Contents,
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10, The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of tbe Motber-in-Law.—10. Wirbelrbewegung.—17. “ Poor Old
Joe! ”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
“14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“A gentleman caUed in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“M.BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PH ARM ACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX
Part 2.—The WoWlejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Obtainable at The Spiritusalit Newspaper Branch Office, London.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations
- Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
_ People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ’’ Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belucci, Florence, and other schools, wifi, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in her studio,
Kensington. Moderate prices to mediums and Spiritualists.
WANTED BY A LADY (Medium) a re¬
spectable girl of fourteen or fifteen, to train as
nursemaid for two little girls (ages three and two years).
Wages £6 per annum ; to be increased after six months’ training
and regularly so up to ten or twelve pounds per year; wash¬
ing and all found.—Apply first by letter, to Mrs. 0. A., 4, The
Terrace, South Lancing, Sussex.
WL. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
F HUDSON, photographer, earnestly desires
• EMPLOYMENT that will keep him and his family
from want. Having no premises that can be used for photo¬
graphy, he is forced to look to other means of gaining a liveli¬
hood, and is willing to undertake any other sort of work suited
to his capacity. Address—25, Covent-gardens, Notting-hill.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address C.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Half-a-
V_) crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wedi.es.day
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
