Registered as a Newspaper.
SN© J0US(X®I<
f)^YdSoi<o^idai(
&\}t (Dlfresf toiflj S^rxittalbm m (&xmt grifam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON: u, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuvedes Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 327. (Vol. XIII.—No. 22.) LONDON : FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Spiritualism and the Royal Society... *   ...253
Prince Bismarck’s Opposition to Modern Materialism. By
Christian Reimers       253
The Tower of Turvil. (Poetry,) 254
Society in 1878. By J. T. Markley, Author of Stray
Thoughts on Many Themes 256
The Same Mystery Throughout. By Henry G. Atkinson,
F.G.S., Author of Letters to Miss Martineau  257
Captain Burton on Spiritualism 258
The Divining Rod. By M. F. Claivaroz (Leon Favre),
Consul-General of France at Trieste ... ....  258
Spiritual Phenomena in India 258
On the Phenomena of Somnambulism. By W. H. Coffin... 259
Henry Slade in Australia     260
Poetry:—Modest Worth '  ... ... 261
Correspondence:—Test Seances with Mr. Williams—The
Visible and the Invisible—The Unpublished Minutes
of Committees—Mediums and Mediumship—Spirit
Drapery  261
Statement of Accounts of the National Association of
Spiritualists  263
Changes in the National Association of Spiritualists 263
A Seance with Mrs. Hayden. By Captain John James ... 264
Answers to Correspondents   264
Paragraphs:—Cabinet Seances, 253 ; Religion versus Ma¬
terialism, 254; A Ghost Story, 255; A Remarkable
Dream, 257 ; Spiritualism in Leicester, 258; Richard
Oosway’s Clairvoyance, 260; Healing Mediumship,
262 ; A Young Artist, 262 ; The Dangers of Hurry ... 268
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Nrvt.m.tnmh om.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess or
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenbergj: Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeid (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cor, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Bain.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.'; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of " Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. 10<L;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Oapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenuq. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Tteligio-PMlosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.O..
EDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
•circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.: or six copies post free
for Cd.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR DECEMBER, 1878.
Monday, ‘Ind.—Discussion Meeting. Captain Burton,
F.R.G.S., on “ Spiritualism in Eastern
Lands.”
Friday, 6th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 10th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, IZth.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 16th.—Discussion Meeting. Mr. Stainton Moses,
M.A., on “The Intelligent Operator at
the Other End of the Line."
Wednesday, 16th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ ,, Soirde Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 20th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ ,, Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of the Association will be closed from Monday
evening, 23rd, and reopened on Monday, 30th,
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughbokough-boad-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
British museum lectures.—a
Course of Three Lectures (with the permission of the
authorities) will be given by O. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, Westminster
Hospital, during the Christmas week. Hours 11 to 6. Tickets
5s. each. Address C. Carter Blake, care of 38, Great Russell-
street, W.C.     
LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORT-
LAND-STREET, W.
The Committee have the pleasure of announcing a CONCERT
in aid of the Mission to Friendless and Fallen Women, on
Tuesday Evening, November 26th, 1878.
The following distinguished Artistes have kindly promised
their valuable assistance: Madame Leibhart, Madame Schnee-
gans, Mrs. Gregory, Mrs. Georgina Weldon, Miss Terry, Miss
Elene Webster, Signor Federici, Mr. E. A. Tietkens, Mr. A.
Crttchett, Mr. W. Gregory. Violin: Signor Scuderi. Con¬
ductors : Signor Bucalossi, Signor Corani.
The Piano to be used on this occasion will be the NEW
MELO PIANO, by Kirkman.
Doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8 precisely. Sofa Stalls,
10s. 6d. ; Stalls, 5s.; Unreserved Seats, 3s.; Balcony, 2s.
Tickets may be obtained at the Hall and at Mrs. MALTBY’S,
61, Gower-street, W.C. 
IADBROKE HALL, LADBROKE
i GROVE ROAD, NOTTING HILL, W. (Not Notting
Hill Gate).
A SERIES OF SUNDAY SERVICES for the dissemination
of the Gospel of Spiritual Truth are in course of delivery in
the above Hall, by W. H. LAMBELLE, who will deliver a
course of addresses on the “ ORIGIN OF RELIGIOUS RITES
AND CEREMONIES.”
Doors open at 6.30 and closed at 7 promptly, to prevent
interruption during the progress of the Services.
MR. and MISS DIETZ, having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“ One of
the most successful series ever known in London ”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—Coal-
brookdale, October 29; Glasgow (City Hall), November 2;
Deal, November 19; Maidstone, November 20; Perry Barr,
December 3; New Swindon, January 8, 1879. Favourable
terms arranged with Institutes or with Progressive Societies,
en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W,
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
 Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Nov. 4.—Mr. Bonwick, F.R.G.S., “ Soul Ideas amongst the
Ancient Egyptians.”
Nov. 18.—Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 1."
Dec. 2.—Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., ” Spiritualism in
Eastern Lands.”
Dec. 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ The intelligent Operator
at the other end of the Line.”
Jan. 6.—Baroness von Vay, “ Visions in Vessels of Water.”
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings.’’
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Dr. Bloede, “ Psychometry.”
April 21.—Mr. O. C. Massey, “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May 6.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “ Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session.”
Lunacy law reform association*
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
IMPOSSIBILITIES MADE PROBABLE.
Consisting of three propositions, viz.:—1. Vitality makes
Matter. 2. Soul is Omnipotent. 3. A Persistent Life Natural
to Man. By J. M. London: Charles Watts, 84, Fleet-street,
E.C. Price 6d
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and dll accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, LudgateCircus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, tic., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
A LADY SPIRITUALIST would be happy to
meet with another to share her superior residence, and
join her in Spiritualistic investigations. A., 2, Scarsdale
Villas, Kensington, S., London,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 29, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Ca'der, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Sernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Oersld, Mrs , 19, Cambrifljje-street, Hyde-park. TV.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G-> M.g.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdongall.Sl. Green-street, Grosvenor-square,TV.
Honvwood Mrs.. 82, Wai'wlck-square, S.TV.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.TV.
TVyld, Geo., M.D.,12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, TV.
Council.
Adshead, TV. P., Derby House. Belper.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Neweastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addlscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. I
llinney, F A.. 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J„ F.R.G.S.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool. •
Coffin, TV, H* 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.TV.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 8, Portman-street, Portman-square, TV.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New TVandsworth, S.TV.
Ellis, Mrs., 59. Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.TV.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Cbampion-hill.
Fitton. R., 34. TValnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald,Mrs. D. G., 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.TV.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate,N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sbeoter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, TV. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hoiighton. Miss, 20. Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, TV,
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Barf,, Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfield, TVimbledon, S.TV.
Joy, Algernon, M.l C E.. Junior United Service Club, S.TV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plalstow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Bemers-street, TV.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, TV.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
MiaU, Rev. TV., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. TV. Staiuton, M.A., University College, N.TV.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, Blundell Sands, near
. Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. tv. TV., 118, Albany-sireet, Regent’s-park, N.TV.
Newton, TV., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, TV.C.
Pickersgill. TV. C., 8, Blandford-square, N-.TV.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Mornington-road, Regent’s-park.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, TVest Brompton,
S.TV.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, TVest Brompton.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Morel!. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Turner ,J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
TValhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, TV.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, TV.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedt.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-snuare, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.TV.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
Mf. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Gennany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittlg, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
1 Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pris Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town,South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelies.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test,Esq., M.D.,Union Springs. CayugaCo.,NewYork,U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet. Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Lonoon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honors, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr-jes, Hungary.
J. TV. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
T- Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 68, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Molra-
place, Cardiff.
Socledad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 8s. 6d. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess op Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VlII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glen are.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “ I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—'XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Chfeer XXlV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth:
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday, and
Saturday evenings from 8 o'clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Rapa.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
0 engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. 
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &o., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Friday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross ,
eare of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 year
established), attends Patients and maybe consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 6.
MR. HOWARD COTTON, Painting Me¬
dium, desires employment for architectural or ether
drawings. Care of Pearce, stationer, Coleherne-terrace,
Redcliffe-square, Brompton.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISM© IN
XX ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Nice/oro Filalete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip,
Baglione, vift Bogino, No. 23.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
EOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St, Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. Terms on ap-
plication,  ' 
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, j£3 per week
each; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie, Baris.
J[ tl &}§ mh. x$
Ko. 327.—VoiLujvie Thirteen; Kumber Twejmty-Two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 29th, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE ROYAL SOCIETY. jj
Mr. William Crookes, devisor of the radiometer and |
discoverer of thallium, editor of the Quarterly Journal of h
Science, and one of the certifiers of the reality of the i
materialised spirit, Katie King, has just been elected to the j
the Council of the Royal Society, which shows as much tolera- j
tion on the part of the society towards the advocates of un- |
popular truths as it exhibited when, under similar spiritual ;
conditions, it elected Mr. C. F. Varley as a member. This j
action will stand in history as a mild set-off to its previous !
rejection of the psychic memoir of Mr. Crookes, and to the j
letters against the psychic phenomena of nature written by j
its two secretaries. We mean the letter which Professor
Stokes, the discoverer of fluorescence, wrote about Spirit- |
ualism at the British Association at Edinburgh, and the two I
letters which the other secretary, Professor Huxley, wrote to j
the Dialectical Society. Nevertheless, the circumstance that j
the Royal Society once acted towards spiritual phenomena, j
just as it acted towards the phenomena described to it by j
Franklin in his paper on Lightning Conductors, can never, j
by subsequent action, be wiped out from the pages of history, j
Perhaps the Royal Society trusted too much to its extra- j
ordinary member, Dr. Carpenter.
The absence of prejudice displayed by the Society in the j
election of Mr. Crookes is gratifying, so also is the circum¬
stance that its president, Mr. Spottiswoode, is so true a
philosopher that he may be depended upon not to commit
himself to utterances upon a subject he has not investigated, j
Times have changed since the recent occasion when there 1
was such severe contention in the Royal Society about his j
election as its treasurer.
These somewhat personal matters offer small opportunity
for philosophical criticism; but while on the subject of the j
Royal Society, we may ask why Professor Huxley, and all j
the religious revolutionists connected with it, find it I
impossible to begin work before a gorgeous mace is placed |
lovingly on the table before the president by a suave
assistant secretary? They all laugh at a consecrated
wafer, but how about the use of the mace ? Would they
reverence the National Association of Spiritualists, if I
at the reading of Captain Burton’s paper next Monday,
nobody could say a word before the broom of Mrs. All way,
the housekeeper, was laid on a velvet cushion across the
front of the table ? Does Professor Huxley feel as un¬
comfortable during the performance of this superstitious
mace rite as he did when travelling about surrounded by
lacqueys in the gilded coach of the Mayor of Liverpool?
When Mr. E. B. Tylor lectures again at the Royal Institu¬
tion on the survival of savage superstitions in modern times,
let him say less about Spiritualistic stances, and more about
the metallic mace of the Royal Society, which locks the
tongues of all the members of the Council, until the rays of
the visible part of the spectrum are reflected by the said
mace through the lenses of their eyes—a material operation
producing a psychic result, well worthy the investigation of
Mr. Serjeant Cox.
Cabinet Stances.—Genuine manifestations are given under such
suspicious conditions at cabinet seances, mixed perhaps in a very few
cases with actually fraudulent performances, that we have been writing
down this class of occurrences for half a year, and think that cabinet
seances should be published only when the tests have been severe. This
will not interfere with anything in private life. In America, during the j
past four years, inconclusive cabinet seances have given ten or twelve I
most violent public blows to the movement, far worse than any blows i
given by its enemies. In England they have given but one, and should |
give no more. Nearly, if not quite, all cabinet manifestations can be
obtained without a cabinet, while the hands of the medium are held |
by the sitters along side him in private houses. [
PRINCE BISMARCK’S' OPPOSITION TO MODERN
MATERIALISM.
BT CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
It is natural to ask, when we are puzzled with difficult
problems, what are the opinions of the foremost leaders of
the age ? What is Bismarck’s opinion about the life here¬
after? is a question which has no doubt sometimes been
silently put by investigators of spiritual phenomena after
. they have passed safely through the lowest phases of
seemingly absurd, repulsive, and even adulterated mani¬
festations. Prince Bismarck is the centre of the present
development of history, and we anticipate instinctively that
j from his high point of view he has a perception of these
“ signs,” and their meaning in the current of progress.
Curiously enough, he gives us an answer like those of the
reticent spirits in experimental seances, that is, when he is
not asked, as the interesting new book by Dr. Busch, On
Bismarck, reveals.
The general cry of the people everywhere upon viewing
the alarming growth of materialism is “ Is there a God and
immortality ? ” Who will deny that a positive science-
proof answer involves the moral shaping of society ?
although minds born with the genius of purity and
righteousness seem to be independent of any creed or
religious system. Such persons strive for moral perfection
for the sake of its own inherent beauties ; hence the glorious
examples even of blameless atheists or infidels. But the
broad masses of the human races, led by the lower and
animal impulses, must be ruled by the doctrine imposed on
them.
The triumphs (?) of modern German science are the
destruction of religious faith, the dismissal of God, and the
annihilation of the soul with the decay of the body. This
fearful watchword, 11 Annihilation ! ” thundering forth from
the throne of science has taken root all over the globe, as
j utterances in every daily paper sadly reveal. Let us not be
misled by occasional well-filled churches. Go with the
worthy churchman into his smoking-room, and listen to his
schemes of bank-swindling and similar robberies in sweet
harmony with other <( elders.” Let us turn our eyes from
the open market to domestic life, and see the effects of
running after fashion and the pleasures of the moment.
Where are the attractions of “Home, sweet home?”
Money-squandering wives cripple the successes of toiling
i husbands, and the not unfrequent warning in daily papers,
“ I hereby make known that I am not responsible for the
debts of my wife,” may frighten many a new candidate for
matrimony. Everywhere the brutal outbreaks of the
philosophy of chance stare us in the face, and this wide¬
spread moral corruption is widening in hidden and even
respectable quarters.
If the line of our existence extends only between two
i points, cradle and coffin, we must of course make the best of
! that miserable span, and our worldly plans may be good
j enough if the lid of the coffin is to be the extinguisher of the
| flame of life. So permeated is Fatherland with this view of
! life that every confession of belief in God and a hereafter is
i branded as evidence of questionable sanity of mind, and the
j hero of intellect, rising high above the level of common
! understanding, is supposed to have stripped off the old-
! fashioned garment of faith in his ascent to that part of
| truth which is revealed by the microscope, dissecting-knife,
| and other sharp instruments.
Prince Bismarck was supposed to be likewise crowned
| with the materialistic glory of modern science, but he has
| just made a “clean breast” of his religious views, with his
1 proverbial sincerity and truthfulness. He says :—
i( I cannot conceive how a man can live without a belief
1 in a revelation, in a God who orders all things for the best,
254
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 29, 1878.
in a Supreme Judge from whom there is no appeal, and in
a future life. If I were not a Christian, I should not remain
at my post for a single hour. If I did not rely on God
Almighty I should not put my trust in princes. I have
enough to live on, and am sufficiently genteel and dis¬
tinguished without the Chancellor’s office. Why should I
go on working indefatigably, incurring trouble and annoyance,
unless convinced that God had ordained me to fulfil these
duties ? If I were not persuaded that this German nation
of ours, in the divinely appointed order of things, is destined
to be something great and good, I should throw off the
diplomatic profession the very moment. Orders and titles
to me have no attraction. The firmness I have shown in
combating all manner of absurdities for ten years past is
solely derived from faith. Take away my faith and you
destroy my patriotism. But for my strict and literal belief
in the truths of Christianity, but for my acceptance of the
miraculous groundwork of religion, you would not have
lived to see me the sort of Chancellor I am. Find me a
successor as firm a believer as myself, and I will resign at
once. But I live in a generation of pagans. I have no
desire to make proselytes, but am constrained to confess my
faith. If there is among us any self-denial and devotion to
king and country, it is a remnant of religious belief un¬
consciously clinging to our people from the days of our
sires. For my own part, I prefer a rural life to any other.
Rob me of my faith that unites me to God, and I return to
Varzin to devote myself industriously to the production of
rye and oats.”
Prince Bismarck’s personal views about Christianity are
still more accurately defined in a trait noticed in these
memoirs. When sent for in hot haste to receive the captive
Napoleon, at Sedan, sundry devotional books and tracts
were found scattered about his sleeping apartment. Among
them were the Tdgliche Losungen der Briidergemeinde fur
1870; the Tdgliche Erquickung gldubiger Christen, &c.
These are peculiar books, edited by and for the Herrenhuter,
or Moravian congregations; they are conceived in the
spirit of the doctrine of continuous inspiration ; they
admit daily miracles, and the immediate and momentary
interference of the Deity in our thoughts and acts. They
assert the divine influence of certain texts over certain
days of the year, and they carry mystic views so far as to
assert that the guiding hand of Providence is found in the
verse the eye first lights upon on opening the Bible for
counsel. These books the prince habitually reads at night.
In keeping with this nightly study is Prince Bismarck’s
avowal of his “ observance ” of certain days. He objects to
sitting down thirteen to dinner, and he will conclude no
treaties on Fridays, convinced that they will not prosper.
Religion versus Materialism.—The men of science who treat as vain
superstitions the beliefs by which human beings hook themselves on to
a higher ideal of existence than the mere earthly and animal one are
sad fabulists too, with all their scepticism and in spite of their constant
demand for positive proofs, such as in the nature of things cannot be
arranged on trays or placed under microscopes, when it is not admea¬
surements of a butterfly’s feather or a gossamer thread that are under
discussion, but the correlation of mind and matter, and the complicated
inspirations, intentions, desires, and intertwining consciousness of depths
above, below, and beyond the range of material knowledge, which form
the soul of humanity. These iconoclasts of science tell us that civilisa¬
tion has been built up upon fables, and that man differs, not in kind, but
only in degree, from the beasts that perish. His very remote ancestor,
or prototype, is the Ascidian, and the monkey is his grandfather. But
whence came the Ascidian ? Oh, the Ascidian developed from the same
vital germ as all other organic life, plants as well as animals of all
kinds! And whence the germ ? Sir W. Thomson suggests that it was
brought on a meteoric stone from some other sphere. Professor Huxley
believes that there was a time when the earth itself produced protoplasm,
which was quickened by electricity, or other natural and spontaneous
combination of elements or forces. Well, well, when science will have
told all its fables, bridged all the chasms in the evidence by bold
assumptions, and produced a consistent creed, we suspect that, after all,
there will be as much demand for religious aspirations and consolations
as ever by all the tribes and nations of the earth on whom the doom of
death, thraldom, or madness has not been pronounced. History does
prove, indeed, that the nations which depart from religious faith and
worship quickly perish, or are made hewers of wood and drawers of
water by those whose faith is living and strength-giving. But it also
teaches that as fast as effete nations perish in their materialism, others,
animated by the same immortal hope which has differentiated man from
monkeys from the beginning, come in their place, and unfurl the ever
old, still ever-new, religious banner.—Daily News.
I THE TOWER OF TURYIL.
Mr. H. Cholmondeley-Pennell, some years ago, spent some time
in investigating spiritual phenomena; he was also one of the guests at
the marriage of Mr. H. I>. Jencken and Miss Kate Fox. His poetical
I works have passed through several editions. The following fine poem is
quoted by permission from Mr. Pennell’s Modern Babylon (John
Camden Hotten, London):—
“ High was the Tower of Turvil;
Turvil, that stood by the shore of the shadowless wave;
With the clouds of the West in the folds of its blazing banner,—
High was the Tower of Turvil;
And Sir Geoffrey was glimmering into the valley of years,
With the grave-light strong in his eyes,
And a murmur at dusk thro’ the halls of his stately castle
That whispered ‘ Death,’
Very safe was the whispering Tower of Turvil!
Massive the walls
As if to withstand the sweep of the deluge;
But their days, too, were numbered.
Already the dry rot was in their bones;
The dark floors had begun to sink t’wards their centres;
And at night—
When the bat flapt—
From the turret above dropped and crumbled the mortar,
With a quiet ominous rattle
Like gravel upon a coffin.
“ And so Geoffrey glimmered away into the valley of years;
And Harold hunted in the woods;
And Alaric played with Effie and Ella in the tower,—
Fair Ella! whose step was as light as a cobweb : . . .
And yet there was a Fiend in the family,
And nobody knew it.
tt Young and lusty was Harold
As Sir Geoffrey was failing and old;
Ella and Effie
The rose and the snowdrop for beauty,
And Alaric the sunshine of Turvil Tower.
But after the sunshine comes the shadow,
As surely as night follows morning,
And after Alaric
As he rush’d thro’ Turvil with his wild bright laugh,
Went a shadow—and a footstep—
And the shadow was the shadow of death.
“ On thro’ the halls went Alaric ;
On thro’ the Tenantless Chamber,
Over the trembling rafters,
Up, high up, to the Windy Turret where the ancient of ravens
Had builded her nest in the ivy:
And after Alaric
The shadow, and the footstep with never an echo.
“ ‘ The raven hath eggs! ’ cried Alaric,
And fearlessly bent over the parapet ....
Hush—who scream’d ? where is Alaric ? . . . .
Down, far down,
A speck on the sharp grey rocks;
A crimson speck at the foot of the Whispering Tower—
Hideously dead.
 Dead ? the false coping gave way—
No, stiff stands the wall like a rock;
Only the ivy is loosened and tom, as if hands ,
In despairing had grasped it;
And here and there
Flutters an emerald strand in the sun.
Alaric was ever a cragsman,—
Ever his foot was at home on the dizzying turret,—
His eye was an eagle’s !
Alaric would never have fallen f
From the battlement glideth a shadow,—
And a footstep— * * *
Surely there was a fiend in the family,
Tho’ nobody knew it.
(i Heaven! how Sir Geoffrey raved,—
The joy of his heart was Alaric:
But man cannot mourn without end,
Grief’s tide turns again to its source
Nov. 29, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
255
As the snow-covered Northland drinks back to its bosom
The fiery fountain that rent it.
‘ I have three left,’ said Sir Geoffrey-
But at night—
When the bat flapt—
From the turret above shook and crumbled the mortar,
With a ceaseless, ominous rattle.
Like the rattle of stones on a coffin.
# * * #
Thro’ the wild woods went the sisters,
Lovingly hand in hand;
Loose were the tresses of Effie,
Pearls shone like stars in her hair,
And a glittering serpent of gold was the girdle of Ella the beautiful.
Fair as the day was Effie! *
Effie, the light of her father’s eyes;
Lovely and gentle as summer,
And her heart was as fair as her face; —
But after the summer comes winter;
Over the flower the snow falls ;
And over the golden locks and the sun-bright face
Fell a winter—
The winter of death.
“ O, sweet in the spring is the lily,
And crimson of roses in June;
0, sweet in the hush of a twilight wood
Is the carol of birds, as the voice
Of the maiden he loves to the lover.
But bitter it is when the lily
Wafts death from its odorous bosom,—
Bitter it is when the snake-wreath
Lies coiled in the red of the rose,
And the song of the wood-bird is mute when the night-raven
Croaks thro’ the shuddering forest.
Hark!—
Is the sound that goes tingling up to the skies
The scream of the owl from the turret ?
The shriek of the night-raven over its hawk-stricken young ?
Or the desolate cry of a human heart in its woe ?
The terrible cry of a father bereft of his child.
“ See, thro’ the long halls they bear her;
Dead in their arms, the bright blossom—
Effie, the light of their hearts;
The pearls have fall’n from the tresses,
Only the fair head shines like the day;
And look ?—do they not see ?—black,
Black in the delicate neck? ....
Verily there was a fiend in the family, and they would not know it?
u Slowly the cold moons waned, and Sir Geoffrey
Wept no longer for Effie;
But deep on his forehead
Were graven the lines of unalt’rable gloom:
Back to his heart he crushed
The ghastly suspicions,
The horrible fancies that whispered.
And fairer and fairer grew Ella;
Ella the wondrously bright,
The inconceivably beautiful,—
Fair with a beauty unearthly;
Dazzled her smile where it fell, as the sun,
And her teeth—were like ice. . . .
But at night—
When the bat flapt—
From the turret above roll’d and rush’d the crumbling stones and the
mortar,
With a wild and terrible rattle,
Like the crashing of beams on a coffin.
“ As a giant was Harold for strength ;
Broad and massive and tall;
The stateliest tree
In the stately forest of Turvil.
Tired of hunting the were-wolf,
Like an oak lay Harold in the great hall and slumbered ;
Pleasant to look at as morning!
But after the morning
Comes evening;
After the light
Comes the darkness;
Over the strong man comes the shadow;
The shadow of Death.
Even now it is on him—hist!
Can you not hear ?
A sound like the leaf-fall in Autumn—
A footstep, as light as a cobweb—
A form, like the houris of heaven—
A heart, like the deep deep hell!—
Ella stands by the side of the sleeper,—
Ella the Beautiful—Ella, the Fiend !
The gleam of the serpent still girdles her waist
In the red and white of the flowers;
Green glow her eyes with the light of the basilisk in them j
Exquisite Ella!—-
Slowly she stoops,
And slowly, the glittering teeth
Waver down t’wards the neck of the sleeper ;
To the great blue vein
That carries the current of life in a gush Ah /
* * * * #
“ Why does the murderess start ?
Does she hear a footstep approaching ?
Quickly it comes,
Thro’ the porch—up the hall—
And Sir Geoffrey stands by his children :
Oh, horror! the father stands by his son.
Was there not a fiend in the family ?
And, at last,—they knew it!
*f Fools ! as if turned into ice,
They stand freezing in motionless terror.
Fools ! can they not hear
The raven shriek from the Turret ?
Do they not see the rats as they flit from the wainscot ?
The floor is sinking!. . . .
It is too late !
“The bat has flapt from mouldering turret and tower ;
And down—down in a hideous ruin
Bush the crumbling walls and the battlements ;
Down thro’ the wild night,
The whispering walls of the shadowy Tower of Turvil.’’
A writer in the Heme Spirite makes the suggestion that a vessel may
| be wrecked through malign influence, where the helmsman happens to
I be a medium who can be controlled by spirits in spite of himself.
A Ghost Story.—The Ballinasloe correspondent of a contemporary,
| writing on Tuesday, says :—“ The remains of a man who was buried
six years ago in the continent of America passed through Ballinasloe
yesterday evening, and were interred in Kilbegley graveyard. Sixteen
| years ago there dwelt a family named Kilduff in the parish of Moore,
convenient to the town. The times were none of the best, and
| ‘ Mickey,’ the ‘ moving spirit ’ of this tale, and the head of the Kilduff,
] thought it best to emigrate, and so parted as best he could with the
‘ bit of ground,’ gathered the family group around him, and with them
| emigrated to New York. In a little time the Kilduffs settled down in
| Brooklyn. Ten years rolled by, and time laid its heavy hand on old
| ‘ Mickey ’ Kilduff ; old age weighed down his enfeebled frame, and he
had to lie on his bed of sickness. Feeling grim death approaching, the
old man called his son to his'.bedside, and besought him to convey his
remains to the ‘ dear old land,’ and lay his bones beneath the sod in
Kilbegley churchyard, the village burial-ground. The old man died,
but his child thought it mere fancy proceeding from dotage which
| made his father prefer the strange request, and, considering the immense
trouble and utter absurdity of complying with it, he determined not to
heed it, and buried the deceased in Brooklyn. After the interment the
| son was deprived of his rest at night by strange, unnatural noises in
] the house, and his belief was, and it is still his impression, that the
place was haunted by his father’s ghost. Circumstances, it appears,
I prevented Kilduff junior from obeying his father’s dying wish until a
short time ago, when fortune favouring he had the remains dug up,
] placed in an oak coffin, and the whole enclosed in a long narrow box
j covered over with galvanised tin or zinc, and put on board a homeward-
I bound ship. Yesterday evening, at five o’clock, Mr. Kilduff and his
| father’s remains passed through this town. The coffin was placed
j beneath the sod in Kelbegley, and Kilduff is narrating in his native
i village to wondering listeners the story of his father’s ghost. ‘ Mickey’
was a well-known Bibbonman at the time of that ‘ scar ’ in Ireland.
I Many of the inhabitants here could scarcely believe that the long box
brought through Ballinasloe by the ‘ stranger ’ held his father’s bones
| till they saw it lowered into its narrow home.”—The “ Weekly Irish
< Times]' October ISHh.
256
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 29, 1878.
SOCIETY IN 1878.
BY J. T. MARKLEY, AUTHOBi OF “ STRAY THOUGHTS ON MANY THEMES.”
As I have dispassionately dealt with modern materialism
in its intellectual aspects, the ice has been broken for a brief
analysis of the same conditions of mind as shown in its
grosser developments.
By the lamentation of saints, and the ready confession of
sinners, we have proof that the age is essentially unspiritual.
Never, perhaps, since the days of Henry VIII., or Charles
II., has English society been so free, flexible, and “ fast ” as
at present. The half suppression of Arcadian simplicity of
manners, and the almost universal contempt for the preter¬
natural elements of religion, make most people defiantly
materialistic. Education may induce refinement in the
better sections of society ; but this attractiveness of character
is not even popular in the centres whence it originates.
Hence the imitative tastes of the working population merely
reflect questionable models. Through this vulgar selfishness
civilisation has become an empty boast. With an almost
Shakespearian interpretation of character, Bishop Frazer tells
the nation certain truths, more pertinent than palatable.
With an acute sense of the dangers which beset kingdoms,
when men’s vulgarity debases the best examples of woman¬
hood, the shrewd man of Manchester foresees results which
might damn commonplace thinkers, before they became
alive to the possible situation. Only few men can look
below the surface, or detect the trail of the reptile in the fair
folds of the sweet midsummer grass. Those, thus gifted, are
prophets in advance of current opinion or ensuing events.
Innocent people rave madly against the stage. Against the
stage, indeed! Why, if the theatres were sanctified they
would exhibit an artificial morality altogether out of keep¬
ing with the real spiritual condition of modern society. The
drama is truthful.
We are asked not to patronise the sparkling sensuality of
Pink Dominos, or the piquant adaptation of French comedy.
The mirror only refuses to swear falsely. Hence, Pink
Dominos shows London “ fast life ” as it is, and not as
preachers and country people dream about it. The now
famous Criterion play is only the inward and theatrical
sign of an outward and more disgusting reality to be traced
in its beginnings, nightly, near the Haymarket, or near the
station gates at Charing-cross. Let no one foolishly suppose
that the Venus-like girls of seventeen are the daughters or
relations of the carnal old merchants of seventy, whose
money gives impassioned materialism extra means of re¬
pulsive development. Before people make haste to vote
against the illustrative drama, let them take note of the
radical moral defects of ordinary degenerate social habits in
the great cities of England in 1878 ! Unfortunately, whilst
the press reports, it will not, editorially, recognise the
rottenness which we need not journey to Denmark to find.
It is scarcely to be expected that modern journalism, as a
commercial speculation, can avoid the spirit of gross
materialism which gives current society a tone of moral
defiance that is all the more to be feared because it unites
the wisdom of Athens with the baseness of Babylon. This
explains how it was that the Daily Telegraph recently
apologised for the tendencies of society against the eloquent
impeachment by the Bishop of Peterborough. Evidently
most of the press writers are men of high principle and
humane genius. This makes their position all the more
painful and perplexing when circumstances demand a critical
comment upon the vast, shouting crowd in Vanity Fair. I
am not underrating the boldness and grandeur of the press.
On the contrary, I hold that it is now the greatest in¬
tellectual, as it will some day be the greatest moral force, in
the world. Society may continue to wax corrupt, selfish,
and materialistic; but the press is so impregnated and
inspired by the best gifts and traditions of literary genius—
so humane and broad in its many-sided sympathies, that,
through its example and influence, theology will eventually
loose its sectarian spleen ; men will learn to love and admire
their fellows; art will only be a new form of moral excel¬
lence ; and religion be as sweet on earth as it is in heaven.
As yet the press is in commercial bondage. Perhaps the
most discouraging sign of the times is the moral degeneracy
of boyhood. Lads could be at once reverent and high-
ij spirited, if they combined the restless daring of the athlete
| with the moral discipline of robust but polite citizenship.
| This is rarely the case now. Where shall we look for any
I trace of genuine spirituality among the tens of thousands of
i our young unmarried men ? Vulgar and licentious phraseo-
graphs rush forth as fluently from unbridled lips as fire from
the crater of Etna ! This may seem an unwarranted asser-
| tion. It is not. so. Let any one watch the young English-
| man—or say the young European or Yankee—when the
| ennui of meal-time, evening, or Sunday leisure allows the
| free and easy play of a sensual imagination ! Where two or
I three are gathered together in the name of recreation, there
| a pollution of language is in the midst of them. Caliban
| never cursed more copiously. The fresh-air verbiage of the
! restless moss troopers was what the Anglican liturgy would
I be to Bacchanalian slang—as compared with the extempore
| utterances of our nineteenth century youth. They seem to
I have all the oaths of wicked old grandfathers left them as a
| legacy of language for daily use since the day when the
| Apostle Peter swore at the housekeeper. What is worse,
even the presence of females fails to ensure decency of re¬
mark where half a dozen hobbledehoys are assembled at the
|| | workshop, the factory, or the street corners. Although it is
I | a fact seldom noticed by the regular press, this low form of
j | anti-religious materialism among our youthful population
| | may some time force itself, in an inconvenient form, upon
j | the attention of those to whom the elevation of industrial
| | society is a matter of philosophical concern.
I | Education does not always give refinement to young men.
if ! If so, how are we to account for the unseemly parlance of
! i the billiard-room, the hotel bars, and the fashionable resorts
j j of hot-blooded 44 scions ” at certain recreation saloons in
I | town famous for spectacular display ? Moreover—and it is
| | no use blinking the fact—many of our Oxford and Cambridge
] | undergraduates, and other students, do not often use the
j ! language of flowers in their less academical moments. Has
] | the age of chivalry altogether departed ? Have we no Lord
| | Chesterfields in our midst? Is politeness one of the lost
I | arts ? The dandyism of Beau Nash and the wearing of
I | Byronic collars were preferable to some of the more vulgar
| | phases of modern English society. Our grandfathers might
| | sip freely of the purple draught, and think less of the gods
! j than of cards. They at least cultivated politeness in the
| < | domestic presence of the fair sex. Women were sacred in
j ;| those days. In a measure that sacredness has departed.
| | Instead of quiet Hannah More as a model we now have
I j popular actresses. The piety and quiet of home-life has
| | given way to a spirit of mere flesh-and-blood materialism.
| | Beauty, discarding the restrictions of mellow faiths, has
j I grown impudent in its sensual eloquence, and advertises
| | itself, with a photographic flaunt, in Regent-street. The
11 i unobtrusive grandeur of holy motherhood, in conspicuous
| | cases, is now ruled out of court. Society has become scenic
| | rather than serene. The sight is undoubtedly pleasing;
| | but there may come a long and painful feeling of contagious
| | sighing.
m A high dignitary of the Church tells us that young ladies
| I now allow themselves to be addressed in language only to
j be tolerated by women of the pavement. The charge is a
I | serious one, even if only half true. Once let the purity and
| | sweetness of English domestic life become incorporated with
111 the defiant moral blindness of the vulgar crowd, and our
I I noble traditions as a people must surely enter upon a
I | dangerous departure. We had better retire, with Cowper, to
| j the teachings of singing tea-kettles, and have moral stamina,
I | * than waste a too short life in the mere worship of the non-
| I ideal passions. We want all the prosperity, love, laughter,
| | amusement, and instruction that modern progress can afford,
111 but not that artificial social 44 restlessness ” against which
j (I the intellectual thinkers of the Saturday Review so warmly
|) | and wisely declaim. To be more refined and spiritual
I | society need not be less facetious^ intrepid, original, or
j < | righteously indulgent. Life may still be a magnificent
j) | experience. As one of Tennyson’s heroines sings :—
i) j Yet pull not down my palace towers that are
! (i So lightly, beautifully built:
j rj Perchance I may return with others there,
11 j When I have purged my guilt.
Nov. 2&, 1878.
THE SEIEITtlALIST.
257
What we must plead for is spirituality of individual dis¬
position. Young men may develop and work off their half
wild esprit de corps without a repulsive use of cackling slang.
They may be nurtured in the mirth and mystery of wit without
making lovely girls retreat to blush. Why should “our
boys ” insult old age in its venerable helplessness at the
street corners ? Why should they scoff at religion and only
heed such literature as favours crime and health-consuming
lust ? The constant low tone of everyday talk among
modern English boyhood certainly does not say much for
that desirable spirit of aspiration and honourable ambition, i
without which the nobler forms of civilisation cannot be |
attained. The laurels of Olympia may be won with the I
accompaniment of a clean imagination. Reverence is not |
imbecility. Politeness need not mean timidity of character. I
A gentleman is not a fool. We cannot expect gentleness in j
women without true manliness in men. In those periods of i
history when society is honest with itself—
“A lover may bestride the gossamer
That idles in the wanton summer air,
And yet not fall.,>
This is certainly not such an era of innocence, truthfulness,
and happiness. The tastes and language of our once ex¬
emplary aristocracy seem to lack the olden glamour of
imperial character. Yenus has chosen the speech of the
uncouth shepherds, and is gossiping of scandals outside
the temple gates. In other words, beauty has lost dignity.
Consequently, it only follows, naturally, that impudence is
fast becoming a fine art. The fond pets of home-life have
flung off the veil and meet the leering gaze of the miscel¬
laneous multitude through the windows of the city shops.
The Divorce Court records frequently prove that the above
is only the best side of the picture.
Among the industrial classes also, to a serious extent,
we may detect this profound undercurrent of materialism
in its less intellectual and less comely forms. Much
of the talk in the factory and the workshop is severely
anti-religious. The mechanics, in thousands of instances,
curse the church and the parsons. Infidelity is now shout¬
ing its rapid increase in all quarters. With such an
abundance of raw material, modern “secularism ” ought to
have a good harvest. Strange to say this numerical boast of
the Atheists can never be made in times of widespread
spirituality, and a national religious fervour among churches
and families. This fact does not prove that materialistic
infidelity is necessarily immoral. It at least shows that the
spread of Atheism may be favoured exceedingly by the pre¬
dispositions of society in its more irreverent and radical moods
of thought. Reform in manners and a healthy moral view of
life and destiny will not come upon us as an abrupt spiritual
impulse. The new inspiration will be less individual than
national in its power of conversion. The re-action will be
bred through a wide and deep disgust with old habits and
inclinations. Like the secret beauty in the chastened
elements of Greek sculpture, the dawn and fulfilment of a
wiser, sweeter day, in modern character, must perforce
resemble a luxurious growth, rather than an effort of labour
and skill. Its naturalness will be its strength. Satire may
assist powerfully in fiction. Eloquence may charm many
into goodness, through sermons. Caricature, headed by
Punch, may sting the sensitive into repentance. The
literary glow of an high-toned and an impassioned press
may sweep popular opinion into nobler channels; but society
must, after all, be its own saviour, and its redemption
depend on the gospel of events.
3, Park-terrace, Horsham.
THE SAME MYSTERY THROUGHOUT.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “LETTERS TO MISS MARTINEAU.’
Mr. T. P. Barkas seems to find much the same difficulty
in respect to mind and matter that Professor Tyndall does,
and has repeated again in his article in The Nineteenth
Century for November. After stating that all causation is
a profound mystery, that “ matter at bottom is mystical
and transcendental,” he finds a special difficulty in the con-
nectiou of mind or sensation with matter—a “ chasm ” we
cannot <{ bridge ” over. Assuming the subjective to be
objective, as Berkeley did, Professor Tyndall says that we
can conceive the continuity of the ethereal action of light
from the sun, but that the sense of light by matter (the
brain) is not conceivable. He does not see that the question
is not of the conceivable line of action, but of the incon¬
ceivable cause of the action ; and how such a man can make
such a blunder I cannot conceive. The “chasm” and
“ bridge ” are all invention and fancy, and when the funda¬
mental reason for all things in nature transcends human
thought, why make a special difficulty about thought itself?
Surely the development of a flower, or the growth of a blade
of grass, or the colouring of the bird or butterfly, is all
mystery, and as much so as the budding and blossom¬
ing of thoughts in the brain. If the brain is but
an instrument or agent to another substantial and
spiritual being or Ego behind, the mystery is the
same of sensation coming of what is not sensation,
as pointed out by Sir W. Hamilton. Then, again, if the
facts of Spiritualism do not prove the existence of a soul as
the Ego, nothing else does. No doubt the substance changes
whilst the sense of identity remains—another mystery—but
what I have long since explained as a common rule and
general law of all animal and vegetable nature, and an ex¬
planation is in the general law and uniform relations; the
transfer of qualities in every case to the new matter, pre¬
serving the individuality with all the distinguishing
specialities, and in respect to each part or organ of the indi¬
vidual. I have called it the fundamental and profound
“magnetic” law of life. Hence, each plant develops and
continues the same, and the dog at ten is the same as when
a puppy, yet all the substance has been changed many times.
The old tree is all different to the young one, and no doubt
this fact of the transfer of qualities, the .living nature to the
new matter, is a profound mystery, but presents to us all
nature in a new view; it shows how man as respects this
great law is not an exception, and that conceivability is not
the criterion of truth.
This general fact or law of the investment of new matter
at once with the life principle, or quality, throughout nature
in all its diversified forms of life and slight differences, is
governed by an unerring law which may well be termed
transcendental, or I should prefer Bacon’s term “ magical.”
May not this, in a reverse way, bear relation to the
materialised spirit, or rather the spiritualising of matter to
obtain a visible bodily form, the same principle operating in
all growth and development; and may we not even so explain
the lobster reproducing its case, the bird its feathers, and
all the beauty and variety of shells ? How do they get formed
with all the specialities of form, colours, and markings,
cunningly preserved ? surely all is magical and most wonder¬
ful and inexplicable turn which way we will, a spiritual
principle pervading throughout.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
A Remarkable Dream.—A dream somewhat remarkable in its details
was last night related by a well-known commission agent, carrying on
an extensive business in Dundee, on reading in the Evening Telegraph
of yesterday of the rather sudden deaths of three of his most intimate
acquaintances. On Sunday evening, on retiring to bed, he fell into a
troubled and unrefreshing sleep. He dreamed that he was resting on
the bank of a stream, and notwithstanding the severity of the weather,
was engaged for the time in the perusal of an evening paper. A woman,
however, who happened to be passing along, called his attention to a
dark object which lay floating unobserved in the water close to where
he was sitting. He examined it narrowly; it was the body of a human
being. A stone was thrown in, and the agitation of the water caused the
body to turn round, when it was discovered to be that of a man. He
now made every endeavour to bring it ashore, and in a short time, with
the assistance of a passer by, was enabled to place it on the edge of the
bank. He looked at the face, much distorted by having lain for a
lengthened time in the stream; it was the countenance of one of his
acquaintances. In consternation he raised it up, when the countenance
changed, and assumed all the lineaments of another acquaintance. With
great trepidation he allowed the corpse to fall upon the ground, when the
face immediately underwent another change, and for a third time took
upon it the resemblance to another friend; the lips moved for a moment
as if in speech, but immediately afterwards relapsed into the rigidity of
everlasting repose. On awakening, the gentleman who related the
dream was very much disturbed, and in the evening, when he read of
the sudden deaths of three of his acquaintances—two in Dundee and one
in Lochee—in the space, it might be said, of twenty-four hours, he was
greatly shocked, and considered that his dream was more than fully
realised.—Dundee Evening Telegraph, Nov. 19th.
258
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Nov. 29, 1878,
CAPTAIN BURTON ON SPIRITUALISM.
Next Monday evening-, Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.,
will read a paper at the fortnightly meeting of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, on “Spiritualism in Eastern Countries.”
As the African explorer who discovered Lake Tanganyika,
and as one of the most distinguished travellers of modern
times, he will probably be as much appreciated by Spirit¬
ualists as he was a few weeks ago at the British Association
meeting at Tririity College, Dublin, where we saw a thousand
or two people crowded into a hall to hear him, and the stair¬
cases outside filled with listeners as far as the eye could
reach. The meetings at Great Russell-street are open only
to members of the Association, and to friends personally
introduced by them, which latter privilege the members
should sparingly use, or the limited accommodation on
Monday must be altogether inadequate.
THE DIVINING- ROD.
| BY M. F. CLAVAIROZ (LBON FAVRE), CONSUL-GENERAL OF FRANCE AT
TRIESTE.
Fokmekly the use of the divining rod was looked upon |
merely as a particular kind of sorcery. At present the !
supernatural is no more, or rather is seen to be but the action |
of some natural laws not yet understood. What the laws are I
which govern this peculiar class of phenomena, or what are | ]
the conditions under which they work, I do not know, but !1
until science has found out the cause of the action of the !!
divining rod, it may be as well to multiply as much as ) j
possible the number of examples which testify to the fact of !1
its taking place. Through my influence the phenomenon of !
the divining rod has been exhibited, so I wish to add my j
testimony to that of other experimentalists who have obtained !
like results. !
I was visiting a friend, who one day told us that he knew I
of a peasant who was able to find hidden wells by the aid j
of the divining rod ; two other persons were with me at the j
time, and we all exclaimed against the current superstitions ! (
which made it possible to believe in stories of which we our- j j
selves were most incredulous. j
“ Well, try,” said our host.
Our curiosity being piqued, we agreed, and went together j
over a broad gravelled walk bordered with turf and flowers ; |
we cut ourselves some rods of thick hazel wood, and each j
one took hold of a stick, turning the forked end towards the j (
ground; we then walked on with slow steps, attentive to j
what might take place.
We had gone about twenty paces when I felt a trembling j
in my rod, and as we advanced it grew still stronger. Soon j
a rotatory movement began to take place, which soon j
reached the speed spoken of by the peasant; at this |
point the bark was scrubbed or peeled off, and, in spite j
of every effort I made, I was powerless to stop the violent j
motion.
Much surprised at this result, I looked at my companions; j
one had obtained the same effects as myself, though to a j j
less extent, while the other held his rod inert and motionless !
in his hand, and would have denied the possibility of the
phenomenon if he had not seen the rapid movement of our j
rods. I
This first experience astonished, but did not convince us, i
for a new phenomenon can only be proved by unfailing i
repetition. We turned back, cut ourselves fresh sticks, re- j
commenced our promenade, and obtained the same results, |;
namely, furious rotatory movements in my hands, moderate I (
movements in the hands of one of my friends, and none at ! ?
all in the hands of the other. j)
It is thus proved—not that the waters under the earth ! <
spring forth from the spot indicated by the diviniug rod— j. /
but that this rod was animated by a power which all the i 5
efforts of a strong hand were insufficient to stop, for I was i j
young then, and possessed of rather unusual strength. j /
But why should the rod be of hazel wood, and not that of | (
any other tree ? 11
It is proved, in the second place, that this force is en- i |
gendered by means of the organism of a medium, because I I j
have given three different sets of results through three jj
difierent operators. There is then in this phenomenon a
certain rapport between the force which emanates from the
earth, and that which proceeds from the operator, and the
stick serves as a conductor between the two, as in the case of
metals with electricity. But who knows if there may not be
beneath this fact, which has been observed even in old times,
the hidden source of a discovery concerning the not yet
understood powers at work.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN INDIA.
A copy of The Christian of June 14th, 1877, has been sent us. An
article in it on “ The Punrooty Mission ” contains the following extracts
from a letter of Miss Reade’s:—
April 27, 1877.—We have had several cases of cholera lately—at
Poonganum it has been very bad, quite different in character from last
year ; apparently much more fatal, and certainly much more difficult to
treat. Thank G-od, however, several have recovered, amongst others a
young girl in Punrooty whose case is very interesting.
As soon as I went to see her they said she was one amongst
several girls, working at the railway, who had several times come up
to the Mission. Poor thing! she was quite prostrate, in that helpless
condition so peculiar to cholera, but when I asked her if she had been
to the Mission she nodded her head in assent, and when I spoke to her
about Jesus she responded in the same way to all I said. This is the
first case yet in which I have met with any such response. She had
a rag tied round her hand. I asked, “ What is that for ?” guessing
what it might be. “It is an offering to ‘ Peroomal ’ should she get
well,” they replied. I felt I could neither pray for the child nor give her
medicine with this on her hand, so I said, “ Take it off, I can do nothing
for her if you keep this on.” Remarkable to say, they immediately
took it off, and never put it on again. Considering their superstition
this was wonderful, and I felt faith that the Lord would restore her;
and so He has done, although she was very bad.
The second or third day after, while she was still hardly able to speak,
or lift up her head, I had been trying to get her to eat; and meanwhile,
as I was speaking to her, I suddenly became conscious of a man stand¬
ing near me, when I looked up and saw a rather well-dressed man close
to me, covered all over hands, arms, and chest with flaring red and
yellow paint like flames, and seemingly in the deepest meditation. All
in a moment he began to tremble violently, and every muscle in his
body appeared convulsed, and for about a quarter of an hour he revolved
round and round in a circle, his body being bent into most horrible
contortions, gesticulating vehemently, and finally, for about five minutes,
he hissed at me like a snake. It was a most evident demoniacal pos¬
session. I have had a good deal of experience of epileptic fits, and
it was quite different. His face and varied attitudes were quite
fiendish, and when, at my desire, they threw two chatties (large
earthen vessels) of water over him, he jumped, hissed, and put out his
tongue, and looked the very incarnation of the evil one.
I did not leave immediately, thinking they would attribute my doing
so to fear; but after a little I made a move towards leaving, when
some of the bystanders said—“ Go, go! you had better go!” but
others said, “No, no, ma’am! don’t go, don’t go;” and drew me
further in; and one called out, “ Why do you tell her to go, is she
not the servant of the High God ?” Was it not remarkable ? I asked
those present what they thought was the cause of the man being in this
state. “ Oh,” they said, “he was making intercession for that girl who
has cholera and is dying, and the god has come down upon him.” It
was very terrible to behold, and I can quite believe it was the devil’s
indignation at the offering or tribute to Peroomal being removed from
the poor girl’s hand.
There has been much to try us lately, but the Lord has been very
gracious amid all, and we have been mercifully guided by His hand in
our rejection of two who applied for baptism, of whose sincerity and
reality we had cause to doubt, and the Lord did not permit us to be
deceived in regard to them.
Spiritualism in Leicester.—On Sunday last, Mr. J. W. Mahony, of
Birmingham, delivered two lectures under the auspices of the Leicester
Spiritualists’ Society, at their rooms in Silver-street, to good congrega¬
tions. In the morning his subject was “ The Rise and Fall of Modern
Spiritualism.” In the evening Mr. Mahony’s subject was “ Secularism
and Spiritualism.” The lecturer commenced by stating that there was
a body of people in the country who called themselves Secularists,
whose principles, work, and service were devoted to the concerns of this
world only, and who professed no belief in or knowledge of another
existence. But this Secularism, in its practical influence upon the lives
of individuals, was not peculiar to Secularists only, for it existed largely
among the great majority of so-called Christian men and women.
Money and material things engrossed the chief energies of all sects and
parties in the State. There was too much Secularism and too little of
Spiritualism. Mr. Mahony then entered into a disquisition on the
nature and properties of matter, and contended that the materialist had
as much difficulty in explaining the nature of matter as the Spiritualist
had in describing the principle of spirit. Secularism was good in its proper
work and influence, but it was a melancholy error to regard it as the ne
plus ultra of human progress. Mr. Mahony then gave numerous and
ingenious illustrations of the nature, beauty, and power of the human
mind, and contended with much energy that man was even in his earth-
life a spirit clothed by matter, which he required for material manifesta¬
tion, and that at physical dissolution he would inherit a refined material
organisation invisible to the present eye of flesh. Several questions
were answered at the c\obq,—Leicester Daily Mercury, November 21st,
Nov. 29, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
259
ON THE PHENOMENA OF SOMNAMBULISM*
BY W. H. COFFIN.'
I beg to gratefully acknowledge the numerous communi¬
cations I have been favoured with by observers of the facts
of somnambulism. The word, from Somnus (sleep), and
ambulo (to walk), or sleep-walking, is applied, widely, to a
psychical state, the most obvious and frequently observed
phenomenon of which has been the act of walking during
sleep (as distinguished from sleeping while walking). Sleep
conditions are inconstant; discrimination between them,
and those of Wakefulness, indicating a continuous gradation
from one to the other, an absolutely wide awake condition
being probably as rare as that of complete coma. In the
direction of sleep are diminished general excitability of the
external senses, unconsciousness of outward impressions, and
loss of volitional control over cerebral changes, finally suc¬
ceeded by a suspension of sensorial activity with oblivious¬
ness to internal impressions, or insensibility to altering states
of consciousness in (assumed) dreamless sleep (inferred from
the absence of recollection of them). The continued activity
of the entire sub-sensorial nervous system maintains reflex
control of the organic vital functions.
From the profundity of normal sleep, the first stage
in the pseudo awakening is supposed to be the dream¬
ing state, in which automatic cerebration presents conscious
but involuntary and uncontrollable mental activity. Know¬
ledge of the exact conditions and circumstances of this
state must be limited by its more or less imperfect
subsequent remembrance; but it would appear to be an
irresponsible and unquestioned imagination, influenced by
external suggestions, but unrestrained from within. It is
important to recognise the varying receptivity, during passive
sleep, of the senses to external impressions, which, while
wholly unperceived as such in the dream, may yet influence
it, if not determine very greatly its character; and such may
be the abnormal sensibility to them of a special sense as to
originate or powerfully stimulate a course of thought by the
intensification of a sense impression too faint for waking
perception. There always exists, moreover, a selective
impressibility to certain classes of sensory impressions,
determined by habitual attention to them, by previous
mental states, by expectation, by acquired discriminating
receptivity, and by their relation to the dominant idea of
the dream, that must be carefully considered in explaining
the phenomena of somnambulism. Thus the slightest
external suggestion, if related to or bearing upon the in¬
voluntary train of thought, will influence and direct the
cerebral changes, while the sensorium shall be utterly un¬
affected by the strongest accompanying impressions which
in the waking state would be overpoweringly distracting.
Of sleep and dream, then, it appears the only persistent
conditions are the two negative ones, of suspension of voli¬
tion and muscular activity not purely reflex. Somnambulism
has, in common with them, only the absence of volitional
control over cerebral changes, and in this particular only is
differentiated from the normal waking state. In unfolding
the stages of this “sleep-waking,” the consciousness assumes
successively a qualified receptivity to sensorial impressions,
and then such control over the nervo-muscular apparatus as
can effect the actual execution of anything it may suggest,
even to the most complicated co-ordinated dream acting
possible. Sensorial activity, however, is not essential to the
lesser manifestations of this, as occurs when the nerve centres
for speech are concerned in Somniloquence, while all the
senses sleep. Any one or more of the senses may be active and
the others remain dormant; but itappears that the Muscular
sense, at least, is generally awake, and when acting alone,
on account of impressional intensity, is capable of directing
extraordinary manifestations of the phenomena characteristic
of somnambulism. Of these, after somniloquence, and such
gestures and changes of countenance as indicate emotions
(and which, as observed, are compatible with absolute
sensorial suspension), the most elementary and frequently
observed is the power of locomotion, accompanied by many
complex acts under the guidance only of touch while other¬
wise senseless, but with a precision unattainable by an
individual merely blind and deaf. Under these circumstances
* Notes of an address opening a debate at the last meeting of the Psychological Society
Qf Great Britain.
! it is found that the slightest suggestion made through the
| muscular sense suffices to modify the ideas that direct the
| course of action.
The concentration, by attention upon muscular effort,
| of unusual nervous supply for contractility, affords an
| almost superhuman strength, well known in somnambulic
j cases, where feats are accomplished, apparently without
I effort, impossible in ordinary states when only a part of the
| c&ntractile power of a portion of a muscle is ever available
| save in convulsion and tetanic-spasm. Sight and hearing
| may be acutely sensible to impressions conveying ideas in
! harmony with an existing train of thought, or bearing upon
! I a dominant notion entertained, and yet remain absolutely
II blind and deaf to the loudest noises and the most intense
i i irrelevant stimuli. Complete anaesthesia, or at least apparent
i i insensibility to, or toleration of physical pain, as alleged to
I be indicated by absence of reflex action in response to pricks,
| burns, &c., co-existing with a muscular sense, if satisfactorily
I substantiated, certainly presents a difficulty in accounting for
I on ordinary physiological considerations, but [may well
! accompany manifestations of high mental activity only. It is
a well-attested fact that the power and delicacy of sensory per-
| ception may be highly exalted in the somnambulic state, and
| alsothatautomaticreason,whensofreedfromoutsidedisturbing
| causes, may accomplish results surpassing the possibility of voli-
| tional exertion. When, therefore, such an intensity of cerebral
| activity is moreover open to suggestions of an almost super-
j sensuous perception, there are presented extraordinary
I mental phenomena which may be found to include in a
| logical generalisation many of the wonders of clairvoyance,
( mesmerism, trance inspiration, &c. The states of artificial
II or induced somnambulism, hypnotism, biology, and
| mesmeric trance, resemble those of natural somnambulism,
i except as being effected usually without the intervention of
| sleep, but present a rather greater variety, on account (in
j the opinion of the writer) of a less absolute suspension of
| j the Will than appears to be the characteristic of true
! somnambulism. The waking memory of the somnambulic
| state varies in different cases from a partial recollection to
| complete forgetfulness; the latter,which is the more common,
I is frequently accompanied, especially in chronic or periodic
/ j cases, by a perfect remembrance while in the somnambulic
| state of the occurrences of previous occasions; while a
I somnambulist frequently, but not invariably, fails to recog¬
nise things perfectly familiar in the waking state. Sleep
being known to be accompanied by a diminished cerebral
blood supply, which may be a necessary cause, it is pro¬
bable that with these exceptional psychical states occurs an
altered local distribution of the circulation. In discussing
the explanations of confessedly mysterious psychical
phenomena by obvious materialistic and physiological con¬
siderations, whose resources are far from being exhausted,
and which deserve to be followed till a really inexplicable
residuum is arrived at, there must not be ignored the widely
different interpretation of a transcendental school, whose
opinions, if not yet very distinctly or consistently formu¬
lated, deserve respectful consideration. In this sense I have
been honoured by a distinguished physician with the follow¬
ing communication :—
“Somnambulism is, I conceive, a misnomer; the con¬
dition is one of spirit life, and might be called Pneumatam-
bulism, if such a word is grammatical. The so-called
somnambulist is preternaturally wide awake, and sees by
the soul or spirit directly without the instrumentality'of the
eyes. It is marvellous that while nearly all medical men
admit the phenomena of somnambulism they deny that
of clairvoyance, the two conditions being identically the
same.”
The identity here asserted, of the phenomena of Somnam¬
bulism with those alleged of Clairvoyance, may well be
admitted, with only certain reservations as to the real
nature of the latter; but this issue, to which it is probable
the discussion will be chiefly confined, and upon which
opinions differ, may more appropriately than in a non-
controversial paper be considered at a later stage of the
debate.
Miss Ella Dietz and Mr. Frank Dietz will give an entertainment at
tlie Ferry Barr Institute, Birmingham, on Tuesday next.
260
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 20, 1878.
HENRY SLADE IN AUSTRALIA.
A writek in the Melbourne Age says:—
What do I find about this wonder-worker to support the theory of
conjuring ? He is not on a stage; he is not at a distance from the
observer; and he works just as well with the observer’s tools as he does
with his own. The conjuror works by gaslight; Slade in broad daylight.
The conjuror has the free use of his legs and hands ; Slade never rises
from his chair, and he never has the use of more than one hand, and not
often of any at all, since it is necessary, in order to complete the circuit
by which the alleged force travels, that the spectators should hold both
his hands in theirs during the occurrence of the phenomena. The con¬
juror has his own stage and his own apparatus, hut Slade will sit in
your room and use your slate. Nay, more, he will let your slate be held
in your hand while the writing is being produced. In your Friday
evening’s contemporary I read what claimed to be an exposure of
Slade-ism from the conjuring side of the question; and though I saw at
once that the narrative wasloose and inconclusive, and evidently not the
work of an expert in the study of evidence, there was just enough in it
to rouse my curiosity afresh and send me, in company with a friend—a
very orthodox friend indeed—straight to Slade’s room, to demand satis¬
faction, in the shape of a seance, then and there. I found that Mr.
Slade had read his exposure, and treated it in a very philosophic spirit j
of indifference, as something he was tolerably used to by this time. We
determined, however, to make use of the adverse points set out in the
narration, and he readily coincided. It was said, for instance, that he
had on slippers; he now showed his feet encased in tightly-laced shoes.
It was said that he had wires and strings about his person; he accord¬
ingly bared his arms to show there were none. It was said that he used
his legs and feet under the table to simulate the touch of hands; he
therefore placed his feet, as long as he could endure the contortion, upon
a chair, exposed to easy view, having first shown conclusively that he
could not extend them far enough, without a visible effort, to
touch his visitors at the opposite side. It was said that he wrote
the message on the slate beforehand. I took my own slate, three¬
leaved, with wooden covers, and wrote my own question. It is
said that he might as well have sat in a dark room, as the writing on the
slate was done under the table. On one occasion the writing (on my
own slate) was done on the top of the head of my friend. At another
seance I had seen it done on the top of the table, in the very centre, with
only the medium’s finger touching the cover. It is said that he in¬
variably holds the slate himself. On Friday night, my friend held it
once in conjunction with the medium, and once in his own hand alone,
the writing being audible on both occasions. It is said that the
messages are short, and, therefore, quickly written. At one seance it
covered the whole slate, and apparently only ceased for want of room.
I daresay I could easily enlarge this already very long list of dis¬
crepancies between the facts and the allegation of the facts; but they
are quite enough to establish what I set out with, namely, that the work
of stating evidence is really a very difficult matter, requiring accuracy
of observation, logical acumen, and a knowledge of the laws of evidence
that are seldom or never to be found in the crowd who attend these kind
of exhibitions, rather to gratify an idle sense of wonderment, or else to
justify some foregone conclusion, or pre-judgment. I will illustrate the
loose habits of thought that bring people to the work of observancy by
one example that was offered by my experience on Friday night. Mr.
Slade placed a heavy hand-bell on the floor under the table. He then
placed both his hands on the table in connection with mine, and asked
my fellow-sitter to put his feet on the top of his. After this was done
the bell shortly rose up, and struck heavily under the centre of the
table, and then came out by my friend’s side; and, finally, after touch¬
ing his face, fell over on the table. The ordinary observer sees nothing
in this, but the movement of a hand-bell projected into space from its
state of rest and following the natural line of projection. But as a
matter of fact the line of projection is not followed; in other words, the
bell moves first in an upward direction, secondly at right angles in a
lateral one, and thirdly in a curvilinear one.
The Harbinger of Light (Melbourne), October 1st, says:—
Incidents at a series of three sittings with Dr. Slade, at the house of
Mr. Parrant, dyer, Lonsdale-street, September 5th. Five persons
present at each seance. Mr. Parrant being the only one present through
the series, took notes.
Three messages in answer to questions were written on the slate
whilst held by Dr. Slade under corner of the table. Slate held by
sitter at opposite corner of table to Dr. Slade was violently wrenched
three times, so that he had difficulty in retaining possession of it. More
questions were asked and answered while Dr. Slade held the slate. It
was then held by three of the sitters, who obtained writing. A chair on
which a lady was sitting was nearly pulled from under her. A closed
slate was held on one of the sitter’s shoulders, and whilst there messages
were written, the writing being distinctly heard by all. A few notes
were played on the accordion, and the interior mechanism taken out by
the invisible power. The table, three feet by four feet two inches, was
raised about two feet from the floor, and remained suspended whilst
fourteen was counted. “
Second Sitting.—Several of sitters held the slate, and obtained writing
without Dr. Slade holding it. The accordion held in one of Dr.
Slade’s hands played a beautiful tune; all saw the bellows drawn out
and pressed in by the invisible power. A large bell was lifted and rung,
then struck the table violently, and was thrown a distance of eight feet
away. One of the sitters was lifted in his chair about two feet from
the floor. Mr. Parrant then put his chair on the table and sat on it;
the chair, table, and sitter were lifted about three feet from the floor.
Third Sitting.—Slate writing as before; all who heldthe slate obtained
writing; one of the messages was, “ This is a law of God, not of man;
you shall see more of us soon.” A chair came from the corner of the
room and struck violently one of the sitter’s chairs. The spirits were
asked to take the slate from Dr. Slade and convey it to a sitter on the
opposite side ; this was done and repeated, both Dr. Slade’s hands being
on the table at the time. Mr. Parrant distinctly felt a hand take the
slate from him, giving it first three strong pulls. A lady’s handkerchief
was taken and tied into a complicated knot. The table was suspended
over three feet from the ground whilst forty was counted aloud by one of
the sitters. The medium then became entranced, sang, and played the
harmonium, and concluded with an impressive address. Of twelve
slates provided by the individuals who sat, eleven were written upon
during the seances, and five of the sitters distinctly saw the materialised
hands.
The “ Own Correspondent ” of the Bendigo Advertiser, after describing
his examination of the room and table, and a series of successful slate¬
writing experiments, concludes as follows :—
This ended the writing part of the seance, but the manifestations
which ensued were of a still more exciting and extraordinary character.
The table rose under our hands, and remained poised in mid-air for
several seconds; a chair turned itself half-round without apparent con¬
tact ; I felt myself touched, as it were playfully, on the right side—that
furthest from the medium—about half a dozen times, while my stick,
which I had deposited in a corner of the room, several feet distant from
where the medium was sitting, took a flying leap and fell down into the
opposite corner. The seance closed with the playing of an accordion
held by Dr. Slade with one hand under the table, the music, myste¬
riously elicited from the instrument, being accompanied by the ringing
of a hand-bell that he had deposited upon the floor, which bell was
pitched into a corner of the room at the close of its share in the per¬
formance. During the whole series of these latter manifestations my
feet were firmly placed over Dr. Slade’s—at his request—and, except
during the playing of the accordion, both his hands were upon the
table. Having faithfully reported what I saw and heard at this inte¬
resting interview, I leave your readers to draw their own conclusions as
to the origin of the phenomena. I may add that the slate, with the
“ spirit ” message quoted above still upon it, is now in my own pos¬
session.
The following letter is from a gentleman at Geelong, who, from
experience in conjuring and legerdemain, is probably competent to
judge of the adequacy of these to account for the phenomena.
I must admit that I was very much impressed with the manifestations
through him. I scarcely expected so much satisfaction. I went with a
friend to his hotel, and found him apparently waiting for us. I was
much pleased with his manner, being gentlemanly and straightforward.
We took our own slates, and by way of further precaution I had apiece
of coloured pencil, or rather crayon, the colour being green. As soon as
we were seated the raps came in different parts of the room, and on the
table in great abundance, and the slate-writing was soon obtained, and
in such a variety of positions—the slates in some instances being placed
on the table with pencil between—as convinced me of the groundless¬
ness of the conjuring theory. My own green pencil was frequently
used, a little bit being chipped off for the purpose, which effectually dis¬
pelled any idea of the writing being prepared beforehand, which itself
would have been impossible from the slates being brought with us. I
watched Dr. Slade very closely, and having had a long experience in
conjuring and legerdemain myself, there are very few of the resources
of the conjurer’s art with which I am not familiar—such as the
various devices for drawing off the attention of the spectator at a
critical moment, and other methods which I have used when giving
entertainments in that line, but with all my closest observation I could
detect nothing like trickery in any form. The doctor gave us another
sitting in the evening, when some additional phenomena occurred.
Slate-writing on my friend’s head; my leg being pulled, apparently
with fingers, the medium being at such a distance from me and having
his legs on view that he could not physically have done it. A bedstead
in one corner of the room, considerably out of reach of the medium, gave
a violent lurch out into the room, and finally the table at which we were
sitting was lifted bodily from the floor, our hands being all off it.
Altogether, the phenomena seemed to be thoroughly genuine. What it
was caused by I am not prepared to say. I have never yet been able to
give in my adhesion completely to the spirit theory; there are
so many forces in nature of which we absolutely know nothing, that I
have always been chary of assigning particular theories to account for
unusual phenomena.
Mr. W. J. Colville has arrived in the United States, and is lecturing
in Boston, Mass.
Miss Godfrey, a clairvoyant well-known in past times among the
early workers in Spiritualism, has returned to England, and is now
residing at 1, Robert-street, Hampstead-road, London. We were
present on one occasion when she, in the clairvoyant state, described
with accuracy and percision the internal ailment of a patient she had
never seen in her life before, and of whose case she had previously
been told nothing. Mr. Benjamin Coleman has seen much of her
clairvoyant powers.
Richard Cosway’s Clairvoyance.—Richard Oosway, the celebrated
miniature painter, once inhabited Schomberg House, now a part of the
War Office. In his later years Cosway supposed himself to be in com¬
munication with the spirit-world, and at a Royal Academy dinner he
informed a brother academician that he had had a visit from Mr. Pitt,
who had died four years before. His friend asked what Pitt had said.
Cosway answered—“ Why, upon entering the room he expressed him¬
self prodigiously hurt that during his residence on earth he had not
encouraged my talents.” Mrs. Cosway left her husband in 1804 to
become the superior of a religious house at Lyons, but paid a final visit
to England in 1821, to place a monument over his grave.
Nov. 29, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
261
pmtg. |
MODEST WORTH. | I
De big sunflower may rise above i 11
De modest ’tater vine, i | j
And brag about its Sunday clothes, j I j
And put on airs so fine ; I (j
But when de winter howls around, I j j
An’ de snow lies at de doah, j j j
De big sunflower, oh 1 whar am he ? ' i j I
De ’tater has de floah. i j j
The Banner of Light. j j j
(Erutresponuntcc.
[Great freedomis offered to correspondents,who sometimes express opinions diametrically i |
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot } 1 |
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which | 1 j
are not anonymous.]   • I
TEST SEANCES WITH MB, WILLIAMS.
Slk,—I perceive that in commenting upon the very interesting paper I !
read by Mrs. Fitz-Gerald on Monday last, Mr. Stainton Moses referred j i j
to a seance held at my house in the month of June, 1872, and at which j j |
seance Mr. C. Williams was present in his professional capacity. The j (j
description, however, of the position in which Mr. Williams sat is I j j
erroneously reported; and its correction is, I conceive, necessary.
Mr. Williams, then, did not “ sit with the back of his chair close to (
the door of a small bookcase.” Those who did sit in that position— i j
effectually blocking up the bookcase in question—were my wife’s sister- j 11
in-law and myself; and its doors could not have been touched by either j} j
the hands or the feet of Mr. Williams, while, I may add, the half door i ]
nearest to him was bolted. Since then I have often removed the table j j
and chairs from the position they occupied upon that occasion, and have i j j
thrown open the unlocked portion of the closet, so as to admit of experi- | j j
menters endeavouring to extract the said book from the position which ! j!
it occupied at the seance in question. It has been done, certainly, but i |
only with such difficulty as to demonstrate the impossibility of its i j
having been done by human power under the circumstances above | (j
narrated.
Having quoted Mr. Williams’s name, permit me to bring forward j j
another case in which that medium’s powers came out in a most satis- j (|
factory manner. | j j
On the 25th of June, 1873, a stance was held in my dining-room, at j j j
which Mr. Williams was present. His hands were held by a sister-in- j (|
law of my wife’s and by a well-known clergyman. During the seance j |
Peter entered an appearance, and volunteered to shake hands. I j j!
accepted his offer, stood up, and extended my right hand as high as I j i
could. It was at once grasped by the well-known horny hand. While
holding it firmly I asked the lady who was sitting on Mr. Williams’s j j!
left hand whether she had a firm hold of that hand. She answered in ! (j
the affirmative. I then asked the same question of the sitter upon Mr. i j
Wilhams’s right hand. His reply was equally satisfactory. Here, j(
then, there could be no mistake, and although this incident has doubt- j
less many parallels in the experience of your readers, it may perchance j
go for something in the estimation of those who have rashly and hastily j
concluded that the Riko affair was of itself sufficient to invalidate Mr. j
Williams’s claims to the possession of genuine mediumistic power.
S. T. Speeb. I
13, Alexandra-road, South Hampstead,
Nov. 24th, 1878. - -
THE VISIBLE AND THE INVISIBLE.
Sir,—The question as to the essential invisibility of spiritual objects |
is one of great interest, and there is, as it seems to me, some confusion |
of mind, or of language, apparent in the discussion of it. I suppose no |
one imagines forms, as they exist in the spiritual world, to be visible
to ordinary mortal vision. All agree that these forms and objects are i
seen clairvoyantly, if at all; and when faces, figures, and drapery j)
become visible to mortal eyes, they are made so by the action of spirit i (
upon material particles, gathered together and moulded by forces the j I
nature of which we do not understand. But, on the other hand, I think j j
few who have seen materialisations under favourable conditions can |
doubt that drapery, flowers, and gems are sometimes produced by ||
spiritual agency on the spot, although in many cases they may be j
common earthly productions, brought by spirits to serve the purpose of j j
those who desire to produce striking results with the least possible j j
expenditure of medial power. We know that Mr. Owen and Dr. Gray saw j
and held flowers at their seances with Mrs. Jencken (then Miss Kate Fox), i
which in a few moments gradually disappeared ; and in the circles held j j
by Mrs. Mary Andrews, of Moravia, flowers were frequently dropped from i
the window of the cabinet, which melted before they reached the floor, j |
If hands, faces, hair, teeth, and nails can be created or evolved by spirit j j
power, why not drapery or ornaments ? Of course these things, while j
in a condition to be visible, absorb and reflect light, as do ordinary j
material objects, because otherwise we could not see them with our eyes j (
of flesh. I have seen, just across a small table, when sitting with j (
Slade, a spirit face with long curly hair (the falling tresses perfectly i |
palpable, and feeling like any soft, fine hair), with drapery so j 1
gossamer-like, and so curiously inwrought with threads and figures in j (
gold and silver, and with a chaplet of roses, so transparent and ethereal i j
that not a doubt was left on my mind of the beautiful, mobile face, the | j
flowing hair, the exquisite drapery, and the lovely flowers being, all |
alike, wrought by spirit power; all of them together making, for the i j
moment, a substantial, and therefore visible, representation of that j j
which in itself could not be seen by mortal vision. And yet the face i j
might, as it certainly did, beam with expression from the spirit of the j j
being so manifesting itself to us, just as the faces of our friends here are j (
lighted from the invisible soul within. I have taken hold of the drapery i i
of spirits as they came close to me, through the substance of the table ;
and even when most cloudlike in appearance it was quite tangible, as
were the hands which often, at my request, drew it backwards and
forwards across my face and shoulders. And why should the
hands be manifestly substantial, and yet produced by the forces
at work in these manifestations, and the drapery be always of a
quite different nature and origin ? Whether flowers, hair, or clothing
have ever been so materialised as to allow of their being kept seems
extremely doubtful, although I have seen some of these things obtained
by eminently reliable investigators under strictest test conditions; and
it may be that we need only more knowledge to convince us that these
spiritual creations or aggregations may be so made as to last like cloth
from a loom, or a gem from the earth. I think even the wisest of
men is yet too ignorant of the essential nature of matter, and of its
relation to that which we call spirit, to determine what is, or is not, pos¬
sible in this way. That dresses and other things can be, and often are,
brought and used at seances, either with or without the knowledge of
the medium, there can be little doubt; and what is most discouraging
is that there seems to be such a lack of simple truth on either or both
sides the line. If either spirit or medium would frankly tell us that
material drapery was needed to save power, we might, as seemed to us
best, accept or decline the proposition to introduce it; but now the
question is so complicated with dissimulation and misrepresentation
somewhere, that even the most unprejudiced of Spiritualists seeks in
vain to do justice to all concerned.
One thing is certain, and that is, that mediums should be made
clearly to see that all their gifts are vain unless they will work faithfully
and heartily for and with honest and intelligent investigators who desire,
not to be astonished by some new and wonderful thing, but to seek
earnestly and determinately after the truth that lies hidden beneath a
mass of inexplicable phenomena. Meanwhile, we are all, mediums and
investigators, only beginning to learn a difficult lesson, and should be
patient and forbearing one with the other. And, for myself, under¬
standing, as I did, all the facts of the case when Dr. Slade was said to
have been “ exposed” in New York some years ago, and knowing how
absolutely baseless was the accusation in that instance (as in some others
that have come under my observation), I feel rather more inclined to
suspect the truth of such statements, even when they are honestly
made, than I do the mediums who suffer from them.
Louisa Andrews.
Brighton. ■■
THE UNPUBLISHED MINUTES OF COMMITTEES.
Sir,—The pages of The Spiritualist have recently contained several
references, in connection with this subject, to printed matter published
by committees on their sole authority. I will quote only one of, these,
namely in the last number, p. 247, where you say, “ They sometimes
issue printed documents to the public, which are legally binding on the
whole organisation, but of which their superior officers know little or
nothing.”
I think it is due to the members of Council who are unable to attend
its sittings, to the members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists generally, and to Spiritualists at large, that you should
give the nature of these offending documents. So far as I am aware,
the only foundation for your accusation is the printing, by the special
committee appointed by the Council to assist Miss Kislingbury in the
preparation of the late monthly Proceedings, of a form of applica¬
tion for advertisements in that periodical, at the foot of which document
my name stands, in consequence of my being a member of that com¬
mittee.
I hope you will find space for these few lines in your next issue, and
consider my request for their insertion a not unreasonable one.
Edward T. Bennett.
Richmond, Nov. 25th, 1878.
[We have recently found two other printed circulars besides the above, neces¬
sary and unimportant enough no doubt, which have also been printed and issued
to the public without the Council being informed of the circumstance before
or afterwards. There is no guarantee that all printed documents so issued
shall be unimportant, and the system which enables them tq be issued at all
and paid for without the knowledge of the managers is inefficient. The cir¬
culars, headed “ British National Association of Spiritualists,” told the public
to address orders about small commercial matters “ to Edward T Bennett,
The Mansion, Richmond-hill, near London,” instead of to the Secretary or
Treasurer at 38, Great Russell-street. When some of the commercial work of
the Association was carried on at Richmond by other than the Association’s
officers, the managers and members ought to have known it, and would have
known it had all the minutes of committees been publicly read monthly, as
commonly done by town councils.—Ed.]
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—The time or state in the history of modern Spiritualism has
now arrived for the attainment of some knowledge of the law which is
operative in the production of the phenomena which are produced
through certain persons who are called mediums.
As yet it is a question with many who have scientifically investigated
and experimented with the phenomena, whether spiritual or disembodied
beings have anything at all to do with the matter, preferring rather
to think that it is the exhibition of a force or power inherent in the
human organism, and which has always been there, and, therefore, in
no wise supports the claim put forth by simple-minded Spiritualists,
viz., that they are produced by spiritual or disembodied beings; so it
follows that the very phenomena which are intended to prove the con¬
tinuity of life in other than human or embodied form, are insufficient as
evidence to demonstrate this all-important fact to the scientific mind.
But the scientists who adopt the negative theory go far beyond
their province in making such assertion ; it is theirs only at the pre¬
sent stage of the movement to investigate (if they will) and record the
262
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 29, 1878.
facts or the results of their experiments, and leave the theory to
others who are qualified by their mental and spiritual attainments to
study the law and propound a philosophy that shall be in accord with
the facts so far as known.
The first law is that of attraction, for like draws to like, and the
medium is merely the focus in which the two factors meet for the time
being. By the “ two factors ” I mean those beings who are invisible to
the mortal eye, on the one hand, and the sitters at stances on the other;
and the second law is like unto the first, viz., the law of projection, by
which is made manifest in objective form that which is subjective; or,
in other words, spiritual phenomenon is the reflection of the mental
states of those who take part in meetings where such is produced.
Every one who attends what is called a stance inevitably draws those
spiritual beings who compose his or her mind (for it should be remem*
bered that the mind is only a term used to express the inner man,
which is as real and substantial as the outer body itself), and to the
clairvoyants these are more or less visible, and are frequently described
as composing an innumerable number; in short, a mundane siance
itself is but a reflection of what is transpiring at the same time in the
spiritual world, and is to that what the shadow is to the substance.
This knowledge will help to unravel many of the mysteries of medium-
ship, and dispose genuine students of spiritual science to be more
charitable and less exacting towards mediums, who to the uninitiated
sometimes appear as charlatans and impostors.
Questionable and apparently fraudulent manifestations, if through a
medium, are the result of imperfect conditions, partly in the medium
and partly in the sitters; and because they are spiritual in their
origin and supra mundane in their character, the failure to produce
conviction of their genuineness is due to the undeveloped state of
both, but mainly of the sitters.
It is possible that there may have been cases of wilful and inten¬
tional fraud on the part of certain mediums, but apart from the risk
Of exposure, humiliation, and may be worse to follow, few would be
found to face such a contingency as mediumship involves in other
ways; but if such alleged cases are probed to the bottom, and both
parties are subjected to the ordeal of judgment by spirits, the offender
(if any) would probably not be the medium.
Take the cases of the convicted and imprisoned mediums and others,
almost as well-known, who have been “exposed,” but not convicted
and imprisoned; in all, it has been proved beyond question that
their medial power is genuine, and that surrounded by favourable con¬
ditions and those well-qualified to judge in occult phenomena, the
manifestations have been more pronounced than even before such
alleged exposures.
In the face of such experiences, surely those calling themselves
Spiritualists, at least, will hesitate before parading their own incom¬
petency to judge between a genuine and fraudulent manifestation, and
flattering themselves that they are rendering good service to the cause
by exposing imposture, forgetting that their judgments formed, it may
be, after one or two sittings, are fallible, and are aimed (probably unin¬
tentionally) against others who have spent time and means in assisting
to develope the mediums who have been condemned rather on suspicion
than on well-attested positive fraudulent actions.
I do not question the honesty or the motives of medium exposers
(where such are Spiritualists), but their wisdom in allowing their im¬
pulses to warp their judgment, in condemning as intentional fraud what,
with better knowledge, would be seen to be a manifestation of their own
imperfect powers of judgment, and a reflection of their own spiritual
undevelopment.
I have aforetime referred to the worthlessness of material tests as
applied to spiritual manifestations—for spiritual phenomena can only be
truly valued by the application of spiritual tests—and these are nothing
more and nothing less than mental and spiritual states which we our¬
selves bring as conditions for the exhibition of the powers of supra
mundane forces and spiritual intelligences ; and the fact that there are
flaws and failures only proves the action of the invisible operators, who
allow these to form a part of the programme for a wise and beneficent
purpose, and when it is given us to advance to interior knowledge, we
shall see that there is design in all, and that these very flaws, failures,
and fancied frauds, instead of retarding, serve to advance the pro¬
gress and expansion of the mighty movement known in our day as
Spiritualism.
I do not underrate the value of the experiments made by such inves¬
tigators as Messrs. Crookes, Wallace, and others who have brought all
their skill to bear by testing the phenomena with scientific and
mechanical instruments, but the result has only been the now discovery
of fraud on the part of the mediums; they throw no light whatever on
the modus operandi of the production of the manifestations, and the sole
value of all such experiments is to convince the experimenters, and
those who are influenced by accomplished scientists, that there is a law
and force in existence which cannot be explained by, and which appear
to be antagonistic to, the theories and ethics of natural science. But if
there is no other object in view than mere curiosity in witnessing the
marvels of the seance room, even such exhibitions become wearying and
insipid; hence so many who have even satisfied themselves of the
genuineness of the phenomena withdraw from further investigation, and
leave it as a matter that requires too much time and attention, or is not
worth the trouble of following up.
It is now a question whether public and promiscuous mediumship has
not had its day, and fulfilled the purpose for which it was permitted; and
Spiritualists are now beginning to see that mediums are too valuable to
be sacrificed to the ignorance and prejudices of an unappreciating public.
To persist in such a course is certain to result in great suffering to the
mediums, and scandals caused by r< exposures,” worrying the sufferers
and annoying to all who befriend and support them. The publication
of results obtained, and facts carefully recorded, will draw all who can
be benefited, and as for the rest they can wait and must bide their time.
I I The money element in Spiritualism is pernicious, and any who enter
!) | into its ranks with no higher motive than to make a living out of it
| | will find their hopes frustrated, for the great powers and intelligences
I f j who are working behind the scenes, who give so freely without money
|) | and price, have a different and higher object in view, and will not allow
| j | their precious gifts to be prostrated for such purposes, and mediums and
j 11 others who speculate upon a monetary success are reckoning without
j) j their host. The primary element in mediumship must be the recogni-
j < | tion by its possessor that its use is not for the purpose of exciting
!) I curiosity by the exhibition of prestidigitatorian feats, but to raise man-
!) | kind from a grovelling and selfish materialism which knows and acknow-
| i j ledges no God but self, and which ignorantly sacrifices the past and
!) I the future for present gratification, and more—that it is intended to
! / demonstrate the immortality of the soul, and the conscious continued
( existence of the individuality after the death of the body,
j The value of mediumship is twofold, for it is operative at the same
(| time in two worlds—the world of spirit as well as the world of nature-—
I and the benefits are applicable to spirits and mortals. When this fact
> | is recognised, mediums will no longer be neglected and allowed to
I struggle with poverty and adversity, and by the necessities of their
| position be so frequently obliged to expose themselves to hostile
j | and repulsive influences and conditions, but they will be cheerfully
i maintained in such circumstances as will be best suited for the develop-
| i ment of their special powers.
j | Who has yet realised the fact that much of the questionable morality
j of mediums is due more to the influences which they absorb by coming
j in contact with promiscuous assemblies, the virus from whom poisons
| | their system, than to their own perversity ? And yet this is at once
j ( | apparent to an astute observer of phenomena, who detects immediately
j j the variation which is caused by the introduction of new elements into a
i | | regularly ordered circle.
| | Public trance mediumship is the highest and best form we have at
j [ i present, where a whole assembly is (unconsciously to themselves) ren-
I j dered quiescent and subservient to the will and power of the controlling
| i intelligences. As yet these are invisible to the outer eye, but the time
j j is coming when they will be able to build up a representative
i 11 materialised form from the medium, and address even public audiences
1: { in proprid persons. I have witnessed this already, where three of us
| | met together in a private seance; and what was done for three will be
|) I done (when conditions are developed) for three hundred and three
I j thousand assembled at one time and one place, and then a sceptical world
! | may be convinced that mediumship is not jugglery and imposture.
{ i This crowning result can only be obtained by patient and self-
| | sacrifice on the part of mediums, and especially of wise and sympathetic
j ! supporters who will take care of their mediums by administering to their
I | wants and necessities, and surrounding them with such elements as will
i i | afford conditions for the training and development of pure spirituality
j i in thought and affections, which alone can bring about such a grand
| (| consummation. William Oxley.
| ( ! Higher Broughton, Manchester, November 6th, 1878.
I ( i SPIRIT DRAPERY.
| i Sir,—Your leader in the newspaper of 18th Nov. is a clear and able
j 11 statement about drapery and other objects being frequently brought to
i j I seances by spirits, and unknown to mediums. Now in my letter to you
j j on the 11th Jan,, 1878, 1 gave you a full account of how the spirit
j j I Lillie explained this important subject, and how her “ helps ” did it.
| I Still, in face of the above evidence the British National Association of
| | Spiritualists denounces mediums of high reputation upon hearsay
| j i evidence, without allowing for a point well known—that spirits usually
! | | bring their own drapery, and do not appear before us in nude form.
Why tax Williams and not Rita ? for the latter was first seized, and
j i i was to receive the payment; still he (Rita) escapes censure. Has he
! | or Williams been properly cross-examined ? Both have a stigma
| | thrust unfairly upon them by the Association, who are usurping power
| | and unwisely using it; indeed, we all have much to learn from
| \ | mediums before we become their judges, and I hope the Association will
| ! never again have to do with mediums when they are away or off our
! j own premises, otherwise very serious harm will arise; besides mediums
| I will keep away from our Association if we interfere with their freedom
j)! out of doors. But by giving them rope enough, if dishonest, they will
; j soon hang themselves, and you also can do your share of help by pub-
! | lishing every authentic report of imposture, thus showing that we hate
| | imposition as well as Mr. Riko; but I protest against the right of the
I | Association interfering at all as a public judge.
! | Charles Blackburn.
|) | Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester, 25th Nov., 1878,
| i Healing Mediumship.—Miss F. J. Theobald, who has been ill for
| | some months, writes to us from 20, Grand Parade, St. Leonard’s:—
|) | “Mr. Omerin has mesmerised me for some weeks with as much success
j as I could expect, an entire recovery being impossible. He is a very
| | powerful mesmerist, and his disinterested kindness and unremitting
! | attention, in spite of every discouragement, are quite beyond praise.”
I • A Young Artist.—Dr. Locander writes from Naples:—“My son,
| who is a true Spiritualist, fifteen years of age, left Paris as you know,
on foot for Naples for the purpose of sketching. He travelled vid Dijon,
Lausanne, Geneva, Chamouny and Mont St. Bernard, Aosta, Turin,
j Genoa, Pisa, Leghorn, Florence, Sienna, Rome, then by St. Germana
| and Capua to Naples. He did this in two months and one day, leaving
Paris September 2nd and arriving in Naples November 3rd. His object
in so doing was to take sketches here and there, for he is an artist, and
to gratify his curiosity. He had some narrow escapes from brigands
while in the mountains. He says that if I only would give him two
francs a day, he would like to set out for Asia now. He speaks five
1 langauges and writes four.”
Nov. 29, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
263
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS OF THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Mb. Morell Theobald has from the first generously given his profes¬
sional time and skill as an accountant, to management of the book¬
keeping system of the National Association of Spiritualists, and has
favoured us with the appended statement of income and expenditure.
The table shows the steady growth of the Association, and indicates
the prosperity it is likely to enjoy in a few years to come. The income
for 1878 is made up only to Nov. 20th, but in the December of each
year considerable payments are always made, so the regular income
for 1878 will be much more than that of 1877. Mr. Theobald says,
“ The accounts kept by Miss Kislingbury have always balanced to a
penny:”—
The rent expenses in the above table would be greater were it not for
payments received for The Spiritualist rooms.
Mb. Ion Pebdioabis is in Paris.
Mb. Joseph P. Hazard, of Rhode Island, United States, arrived in
London last week, after travelling round the world, and observing
spiritual phenomena among the natives of India, China, and other
countries. He is a firm Spiritualist, and brother of Mr. T. R. Hazard,
one of the most active workers in the movement in the United States.
CHANGES IN THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Soon after the British National Association of Spiritualists came into
existence, and when it had but few members, a few wealthy gentlemen
and others specially contributed £200 per annum for three years, to
clear expenses while its ordinary income was rising by natural growth.
That liberal artificial support ceased at the end of 1877, consequently
throughout the present year, 1878, the Association has been hampered
by the sudden instead of the gradual withdrawal of the annual 5-200.
The amount required to get through the present year has been made up
by special subscriptions, but as the managers give their valuable time
and work freely, they feel that they ought not to have to send out several
applications for extra funds. Consequently, unless the members slightly
increase their subscriptions, or bring in new members more rapidly, it
has been resolved to reduce expenses during 1879 by keeping the public
rooms open from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. only. Owing to interior arrange¬
ments, facilitated by Miss Kislingbury, which can then be made, a
saving of £70 a year can thus be effected. Perhaps the great com¬
mercial depression everywhere has something to do with the scarcity of
surplus funds. Retrenchment can only be effected by a loss somewhere,
and in this case the effect will be seen in the closing of the doors of a
large central establishment during the early part of the day.
This may be prevented by the slight raising of individual subscrip¬
tions, or, better still, by the bringing in of new members more rapidly
than at present. The Association only wants seventy or one hundred
new members to work comfortably on its present system. Another great
help would be, the enrolment of those Spiritualists in the provinces who
like the Association, but say they have not entered their names as
members because their places of residence would deprive them of several
of the advantages of membership. But they derive several indirect
advantages, in the reading of the scientific and other memoirs of the
society, in the prestige given to the whole movement by the success of
the Association in scientific research, and in the check which the
planting of an influential public organisation in London has given to
newspaper and other abuse of Spiritualism. Besides, if they join
only for what they can get out of it, books from the lending
library can be sent to and fro by post, or even, after due encouragement,
a travelling library established.
At a special Council meeting last Tuesday it was proposed by Mr.
Stainton-Moses, seconded, and carried unanimously—
1. That the offices of the Association be open, on and after Jan. 1, 1879,
from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m.
2. That the secretary be requested to attend at those hours at a salary of
£80 per annum and rooms.
3. That a special letter, in giving notice to the subscribers of renewal of
their subscriptions, be sent, urging the absolute necessity of obtaining
increased funds if the present status and work of the Association is to be
maintained.
4. That a form of appeal, similar to the draft appended, be authorised for
circulation among members.
The Dangers of Hurry.—A recent painful case illustrates the
danger of hurrying to catch a train. The peril is very considerable,
and it besets most men in these busy times. It is not perhaps a matter
of social concern, but it is one in which every member of the com¬
munity has a personal interest. The high pressure and speed at which
we live, and the impetuous haste of business in these days of extreme
utilitarianism, do not allow any exemption from the common rush.
Even the staid and deliberate classes are affected by the rapid move¬
ment around them, and must needs hurry to keep their place. No
inertia can check the torrent, and the stoutest resolve to move slowly
is powerless to stem the flood. It remains to adapt the conduct to the
inexorable conditions. There is only one remedy for the evil of hurry,
and a single protection against its consequences—that is orderly
method. Never in the history of intellectual and commercial progress
was the need of order more urgent. It is not the amount of work
accomplished that exhausts the strength and leads to a break-down; it
is the effort made, and the worry of making it, that overtax the energy
of control and the strength of action. Perhaps one of the most
prolific causes of collapse in recent times has been the lack of training.
This is not sufficiently recognised. In the old days of “ apprentice¬
ship,” and slowly built-up qualifications for work, youths were specially
trained for their business in life, and the difficulties of the career came
upon them gradually. Now one-half of the labourers in any depart¬
ment of industry have entered it in some sudden way, and industry has
become a general melee, in which those who can by effort accomplish
the greater results are counted successful. The effortless, though not
always the least capable, are vanquished. What takes place in regard
to work finds its parallel in, and is to a great extent the cause of, the
hurry and worry of the busy world as a whole. Everything and every¬
body presses forward at high speed, and success means outrunning
competitors. The maxim of safety—to avoid physical hurry and
mental hurry alike—is, prepare, deliberate ; in a word, adopt an orderly
method. The man with a weak heart who endangers his life by hurry¬
ing to catch a train, unless under altogether exceptional circumstances,
is probably the victim of a defect in early training, which leaves him
at the mercy of impulse without order ; or he is striving to fill a place
in life for which his chief qualification has been the faculty of ac¬
complishing by effort more than can be achieved naturally by steady
labour. Some persons are ever hurrying after their engagements ;
others are goaded onward by the pressure behind them ; but however
the “ hurry ’’ is produced, it is full of peril to happiness of mind and
health of body, and in the end, by exhaustion, if not prematurely by
accident, it kills*—Lancet,
264
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 29, 1878.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. HAYDEN.
BY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES. ! {
In Mrs. Fitz-Gerald’s very interesting narrative of experi- | j
ences in spiritual phenomena, reported in The Spiritualist of j j
November 22nd, some mention is made of Mrs. Hayden, a j j
medium who appeared in London more than thirty years ago. | j |
The following account of a stance held with Mrs. Hayden is j j j
extracted from the life of Charles Young, the celebrated j j j
tragedian, written by his son the Rev. Julian Young, and j j
probably the details of this stance may prove interesting to j j
those of your readers who have not seen the book :— | j
The Rev. Julian Young was evidently not a Spiritualist; I j
but he could not help acknowledging that Mrs. Hayden ! j
possessed very extraordinary powers, not to be explained | I
away by any suspicion of trickery on her part, or delusion on j j
his. Ill
1853, April 19th.—I went up to London this day for the | j
purpose of consulting my lawyers on a subject of some j
importance to myself, and having heard much of a Mrs. j
Hayden, an American lady, as a spiritual medium, I re- j
solved, as I was in town, to discover her whereabouts, and |
judge of her gifts for myself. Accidentally meeting an old j
friend, Mr. H., I asked him if he could give me her address. !
He told me that it was 22, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish- |
square. As he had never been in her company, and had a j j
great wish to see her, and yet was unwilling to pay his j
guinea for the treat, I offered to frank him, if he would go j |
with me. He did so gladly. Spirit-rapping has been so com- j
mon since 1853, that I should irritate my reader’s patience I j
by describing the conventional mode of communicating j j
between the living and the dead. Since the above date I j !
have seen very much of spirit-rapping; and though my organs j |
of wonder are larger developed, and I have a weakness for j !
the mystic and supernatural, yet I cannot say that I have j |
ever witnessed any spiritual phenomena which were not j j
explicable on natural grounds, except in the instance I am I j
about to give, in which collusion appeared to be out of the j
question, the friend who accompanied me never having seen I j
Mrs. Hayden, and she knowing neither his name nor mine, j j
The following dialogue took place between Mrs. H. and my- | j
self:— . | |
Mrs. H.—“ Have you, sir, any wish to communicate with j j
the spirit of any departed friend ?”
J. C. Y.—“ Yes.” |
Mrs. H.—“ Be pleased then to ask your questions in the i
manner prescribed by the formula, and I dare say you will j
get satisfactory replies.” j
J. C. Y. (addressing himself to one invisible, yet supposed !
to be present).—uTell me the name of the person with j
whom I wish to communicate.” The letters written down I
according to the dictation of the taps, when put together 1 |
spelt f| George William Young.” j j
J. C. Y.—“ On whom are my thoughts now fixed ?” j j
A.—“ Frederick William Young.” I j
J. 0. Y.—“ What is he suffering from ?” I |
A.—“ Tic Douloureux.” j j
J. 0. Y.—“ Can you prescribe anything for him ?”
A.—“ Powerful mesmerism.” j j
J. C. Y.—a Who should be the administrator ?”
A.—“ Some one who has strong sympathy with the | I
patient.” j !
J. 0. Y.—“ Should I succeed ?” 11
A.—“ No.” ||
J. C. Y.—<c Who would ?” I i
A.—“ Joseph Ries” (a gentleman whom my uncle much j !
respected). i j ^
J. C. Y.—“ Have I lost any friend lately ?” 11 j
.A. ^£ Yes.” * I •
J. C. Y.—“ Who is it ?” (I thinking of a Miss Young, j |
a distant cousin.) r|||
A.—fi Christiana Lane.”
J. 0. Y.—“ Can you tell me where I sleep to-night ?”
A.—u James B.’s, Esq., 9, Clarges-street.” ; j j [j j
J, 0. Y.—“ Where do I sleep to-morrow ?” j j
A.—“ Colonel Weymouth’s, Upper Grosvenor-street.” | |
I was so astounded by the correctness of the answers I j j
received to my inquiries, that I told the gentleman who was j j
with me that I wanted particularly to ask a question, to the j |
nature of which I did not wish him to be privy, and that I 1'
should be obliged to him if he would go into the adjoining
room for a few minutes. On his doing so I resumed my
dialogue with Mrs. Hayden.
J. C. Y.—“ I have induced my friend to withdraw, because
I did not wish him to know the question I want to put; but
I am equally anxious that you should not know it either, and
yet, if I understand rightly, no answer can be transmitted to
me except through you. What is to be done under these
circumstances ?”
Mrs. H.—*! Ask your question in such form that the
answer returned shall represent by one word the salient idea
in your mind.”
J. C. Y.—a I will try. Will what I am threatened with
take place ?”
A.—“ No.”
J. 0. Y.—r That is unsatisfactory; it is easy to say ‘ yes
or no,’ but the value of the affirmation or negation will
depend on the conviction I have that you know what I am
thinking of. Give me one word which shall show that you
have the clue to my thoughts.”
A.—“ Will.”
Now, a will by which I had benefited was threatened to
be disputed. I wished to know whether the threat would be
carried out. The answer I received was correct.
I could easily enlarge on the topic, for I have had a good
deal of experience in spirit-rapping, but I think and hope
that the public are weary of so unprofitable a subject. In
mentioning my visit to Mrs. Hayden, I should be sorry to
have it supposed that I attribute her singularly accurate
replies to my questions to any supernatural agency. Though
I cannot unravel the mystery, I am persuaded it is explicable.
All I plead guilty to is my inability to account for an
American lady—a total stranger, who knew neither my
person nor my name—being not only familiar with the
names of my friends and my own movements, but able to
tell my thoughts. That there are certain occult physical
forces on which the media trade, I doubt not.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
E. B. AND others.—When you send newspaper cuttings, please give the
name and date of the journal you take them from. We do nob want to
reprint them without acknowledging their source.
Readers in the United States are reminded that at the time of their receipt of
this number of The Spiritualist, it is necessary for them to make their
remittances for its supply during the year 1879. We should be much
obliged if every American reader will get two or three new subscribers,
and if some of them will pay for the regular supply of this journal to a
few of the chief public reading-rooms and libraries in the United States.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD, ‘
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens,
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Nov. 29, 1878
THE SPIRITUALIST
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Gd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
seientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, P.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism, Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The Question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DA.VIS,
The Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . •
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. ,, IV. . •
The Thinker. ..V. „ . ...
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Trath v. Theology. .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the Peop.e
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . .
Morning Lectures . . . . .
s. d.
. Id 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
.’7 0
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 8
.60
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 6 0
.20
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . #24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .16
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. ColL, Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 18
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge,D.D. . . . . ,. . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. .10
Awas-I-Hindi; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D.,'LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . IS
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale , 10
0
6
0
0
6
0
6
6
0
6
6
0
0
6
0
6
6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oJ Manifestation'
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob and Otheb
Obsebyeesin London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Oloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Oolby and RiOH-, 9* Montgomefy-street,
Boston) u.S.
OPINIONS oi? THE Pbess.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to he
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with Which they are accredited.”**-
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Prioe Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapteb I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III ^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—^Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, P.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII—-Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt-
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections U
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs arid Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1889 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Variey, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot he had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station In the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON), ’ on
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
synopsis oe contents.
List of Works hearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psycliography lit the past: Guldeflstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private) and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvefn
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—.
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and lor. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
HI From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould ; Dictation of Wolds at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence Of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Heni'y Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, W.G. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Gxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death. ” Given through the trance-mediumshipo f
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Snelley to the Higher Life. •
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, SapSea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers In Cloister-
ham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treheme)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
or Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Yay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. BurKe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthc dox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. B urke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow's Position In
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Najnra
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzi/;) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harris th—
Meditation and the Volos of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massiiy—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro •
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,”
IV
THE SPIEITO ALIST,
Nov. 29, ,1878.
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
PUBLISHED QUABTEBLY.
October.
CONTENTS
I. —Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II. —Astrology, Ancient and Modern.
III.—Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
TV.—Immaterialism at Brussels. By J. C. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
VI.—James Hinton's Philosophy.
VII.—Pilgrimages; in France. No. HI.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bohme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supematuralism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
- 11 E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O. 
Price 6d.; post free, 7§d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price ls.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office. •   
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Soeiiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
• SYCHISCHE STUDIED. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mdtze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiemeter, and discoverer of the
new metal, thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, and a great number of
intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not', they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of no imporlance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communioation is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part 1. —Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—1. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Must^pha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobhlejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enj oy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’.
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a.
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con-
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.’’
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of.unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes seriOus, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which.
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \_N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is "bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late "Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Oopies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER IIj—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objecte: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance-—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER VLucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—^Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Fain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Dariing’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—^Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticshot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It. -
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Eeichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Gdylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—^Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Ponds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
.bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
OdyUc Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrart—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to he Student^Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of .Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes]
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Oo., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, Lond in. and published by E. W Allen, Avo
Maria-lane, Londc n, E.C,
