Registered as a Newspaper.
mM ^nm^jEr fext^ Spntealxsm m (&xmt
intam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 318.—(VOL. XIIL—No. 13.) LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
How a “ Dead Girl" returned to Earth, and Lived again
for Three Months:—The Vennum Family of Watseka
—The Mediumship of Miss Vennum—The Spiritual
Theory Practically Applied to the Treatment of Sup¬
posed Insanity—The Life History of Mary BofC—The
Clairvoyance of Mary Boff—The Betum to Earth of a
Bisen Spirit      •» 145
Professor Zhllner’s Experiments with Dr. Slade 148
The Ghost of a Dog. By the Baroness Adelma von Vay
(Countess Wurmhrand) 150
Spiritualism in Paris  151
Messrs. Williams and Bita at Amsterdam  153
Correspondence:—What is the Good of Spiritualism? ... 154
Foreign Notes     155
Opening of the New Spiritualistic Hall in Liverpool 156
The Oneida Community 156
Paragraphs:—Spirit Drapery, 152 ; Horace Greeley on
Spiritual Phenomena, 155 ; Unfounded Pretensions,
155 ; Demons according to Spiritism 156
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT BUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOE OCTOBER.
Friday, ifh.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6 p.m.
Tuesday, 8(7i.—Special Council Meeting, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Ordinary Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 11 (ft.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
• p.m.
„ ISift.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.'30 p.m.
Wednesday, 23r<f.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ ,, Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 25th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe. .
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science" (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess or
Caithness ;vHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeid (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelina Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ol
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United ^Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. FauTs-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
Just published, 2s. paper covers 3s. cloth.
IFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
i by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WANTED, by a SPIRITUALIST, a situa¬
tion as Collector or Timekeeper ; would take care of
offices. 25 years’ character, and good references. Address:
J. Cain, 8, Blwiafleld-road, Bwrdett-road, Buw, E.
Thh object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of hooks on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &e., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. Sec.
MR. and MISS DIETZ having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“One of
the most successful series ever known in London”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—the
West of England, during the first week in October; Scotland,
during November; the Midland Counties, early in December.
Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route. For par¬
ticulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, London,
S.W. Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,’’ illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. II. July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home —The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyeho-
logiques, fondfs par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de LUle, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsie: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. 1<X.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between II and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd,; or six copies post free
for 6d.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and naval Forces
Everything qf the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms :—s, Lud gate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal oj Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Rnssell-street, London.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 27, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-GeraW, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G„ M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W-
Honywood. Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C-, Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple*
London. E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
"Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaee, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. 1
Blnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester-
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Comwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Eflmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tuftiell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sheoter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bari., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J J,, Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newhould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickcrsgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Stra - bridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, RedcUffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton,
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M„ 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J-, 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal], H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J.W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein,*Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubhe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, I, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresoren'e, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne. Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Ciinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pris Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq.. 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
. U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de I’Europe,
Paris.
Key. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Apthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxeues.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epm'jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhier-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdonmoad, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadfEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems op the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 5s. 6d. -
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY UZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part L
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. L»ve and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIXI.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home,—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOHSUURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honord,
Paris.
■jl W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. 
w. is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may he chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at th eir homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m <
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Clairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon place, Blooms,
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
v_y ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Pee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CIURATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR-
l VOYANOE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may he consulted at his residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
Consultations by letter.
MESMERIC HEALER,
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante,[examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
NOTICE.—M. FOX KANE receives friends
at 14, Southampton-row, London, Mondays, Wednes¬
days, and Fridays, from 2 to 5p.m. A circle on reduced term*
on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, from 8 to 10.
Annali dello spiritismo in
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete.
Published on the 15 th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vifi Bogino, No. 23.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney,
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald, Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and seientifle subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
RIOHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-sjreet; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two yoIs, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
rpHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
jt xtf H ntfo xif
Ko. sis.—VojL.iljvie Thirteen; Number Thirteeji.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27th, 1878.
HOW A “DEAD” GIRL RETURNED TO EARTH, AND
LIVED AGAIN FOR THREE MONTHS.
Much interest has been excited among American Spirit¬
ualists by “The Watseka Wonder,” fully authenticated par¬
ticulars in relation to which were published last month in
successive numbers of the Religio-PMlosopMcal Journal, for
which the facts had been collected by Mr. E. W. Stevens.
The narrative contains the names and addresses of every¬
body concerned, accompanied in some cases by certificates
of character. The following is the narrative of Dr. Stevens,
of Janesville, Wisconsin, slightly abridged :—
THE VENNUM FAMILY OF WATSEKA.
The city of Watseka, a town of humble pretensions, on
the Eastern Illinois, and Toledo, Peoria, and Warsaw Rail¬
roads, is eighty-six miles south of Chicago, on the Iroquois
river. Its ruling classes are aristocratic and respectable,
noted for their intelligence and literary attainments. This
town has been swept by a tidal wave of excitement, on
account of the presumed insanity of one Lurancy Vennum,
a young girl belonging to an unpretentious family in the
suburbs of the city. Her insanity, as it was thought to be,
dates from July 11th, 1877, and remarkable phenomena
continued until her perfect restoration through the aid of
friendly Spiritualists and spirits, on the 21st of May, 1878.
Thus, for ten months and ten days, did these phenomena
continue to excite and agitate the people. The following is
a true narrative, and as full as the facts collected from the
parents and relatives of the parties named herein, and obser¬
vations made by the writer, will warrant.
Thomas J. Yennum was born May 7th, 1832, in Washing¬
ton Co., Penn.; Lurinda J. Smith (his wife) was born
October 14th, 1837, in St. Joseph Co., Ind. They were
married in Fayette Co., Iowa, December 2nd, 1855. Mary
Lurancy Vennum, daughter of the above-named Thomas J.
and Lurinda J. Yennum, was born on the 16th day of April,
1864, in Milford township, seven miles south of Watseka.
The family moved to Iowa July 12th, 1864, and returned to
the vicinity, eight miles from Watseka, in October, 1865.
In August, 1866, they removed to Milford, twelve miles
south of Watseka, and remained there till March 1st, 1870,
then went out two and one-half miles from Milford until
April 1st, 1871, when they moved into Watseka, settling
about forty rods from the residence of A. B. Roff, the spirit
daughter of whom, according to all the facts and represen¬
tations, in every way tested, is the principal character in
this remarkable narrative. The family remained at this
place during the summer. The only acquaintance ever
existing between the two families during the season was
simply one brief call of Mrs. Roff for a few minutes on Mrs.
Vennum, which call was never returned, and a formal
speaking acquaintance between the two gentlemen. Since
1871 the Yennum family have lived entirely away from the
vicinity of Mr. Roff’s, and never nearer than now, at extreme
opposite limits of the city.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MISS VENNUM.
((Raney,” as she is familiarly called, had never been
sick, save a light attack of measles in 1873. A few days
before the following incidents took place, she said to her
family : “ There were persons in my room last night, and
they called * Raney ! Raney! ’ and I felt their breath on my
face.” The very next night she arose from her bed, saying
that she could not sleep; that every time she tried to sleep,
persons came and called “ Raney ! Raney ! ” to her. Her
mother went to bed with her, after which she rested and
slept the rest of the night.
On the 11th day of July, 1877, Lurancy had been sewing
a part of the afternoon, when, at about six o’clock she laid
II by her work, as her mother said : y Lurancy, you had better
| commence getting supper.” The girl replied : “ Ma, I feel
| bad; I feel so queer; ” and, placing her hand to her left
i breast, she immediately went into what seemed a fit, falling
| heavily on the floor, lying apparently dead, every muscle
i becoming suddenly rigid. Thus she lay five hours. On re-
I turning to consciousness she said she felt “very strange and
] queer.” The remainder of the night she rested well. The
Ij next day the rigid state returned, and passing beyond the
| rigidity, her mind took cognisance of two states of being
| at the same time. Lying as if dead, she spoke freely,
| telling the family what persons and spirits she could see,
| describing them, and calling some of them by name,
j Among those mentioned were her sister and brother, for she
| exclaimed, “ Oh, mother! can’t you see little Laura and
| Bertie ? They are so beautiful! ” Bertie died when
| Lurancy was but three years old.
She had many of these trances, describing Heaven and
| the spirits, or the angels, as she called them. Sometime in
September she became free from them, and seemed to the
| family to be quite well again.
On the 27th day of November, 1877, she was attacked
I with a most violent pain in her stomach some five or six
| times a day ; for two weeks she had the most excruciating
i pains. In these painful paroxysms she would double herself
I back until her head and feet actually touched. At the end
I of two weeks, or about the 11th of December, in these
j distressing attacks, she became unconscious, passed into a
J quiet trance, and, as at former times, would describe heaven
| and spirits, often calling them angels.
From this time until the 1st of February, 1878, she had
| these trances, and sometimes a seemingly real obsession,
| from three to eight and sometimes as many as twelve times
| a day, lasting from one to eight hours, and occasionally
| passing into that state of ecstasy, when, as Lurancy, she
| claimed to be in Heaven.
During the time recorded, up to about the middle of
| January, 1878, she had been under the care of Dr. L. N.
Pitwood in the summer, and Dr. Jewett in the winter.
| These M.D.’s are both eminent allopathic practitioners, and
i residents at Watseka. Mrs. Allison, Mrs. Jolly, and other
I relatives and friends believed her insane. The Rev. B. M.
| Baker, the Methodist minister in charge at Watseka, wrote
I to the insane asylum to ascertain if the girl could be re-
I ceived there. It seemed to be the general feeling among
| all the friends, save the parents and a few who were sympa-
| thetic observers and thinkers, that the girl should go to
| the asylum.
THE SPIKITUAL THEORY PRACTICALLY APPLIED TO THE TREATMENT OF SUPPOSED
INSANITY.
There were in the city of Watseka at this time, persons
who believed in the language of Bishop A. Beals, that
“ disease has a dynamic or spiritual origin;” persons claim¬
ing to understand something of the occult forces and
| phenomena of mind. Among this class were Asa B. Roff
| and his wife, who, with others, became thoroughly aroused
I to the importance of arresting the movement to take a lovely
| child from the bosom of an affectionate family, to imprison.
I her among maniacs. These good people ventured in the
i most gentle and Christian spirit to advise other treatment.
Mr. Roff, after much persuasion, obtained the consent of
| the girl’s father to visit her and bring with him Dr. E. W.
| Stevens, of Janesville, Wis., to investigate the case.
On the afternoon of January 31st, 1878, the two gentle-
| men repaired to Mr. Yennum’s residence. Dr. Stevens, an
i entire stranger to the family, was introduced by Mr. Roff at
I four o’clock p.m.; no other person present but the family.
I The girl sat near the stove in a common chair, her
: elbows on her knees, her hands under her chin, feet
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 27, 1878.
curled up on the chair, eyes staring, looking everyway |
like an “ old hag.” She sat for a time in silence, I
until Dr. Stevens moved his chair, when she savagely j
warned him not to come nearer. She appeared sullen j j
and crabbed, calling her father u Old Black Dick,” and j
her mother “ Old Granny.” She refused to be touched j |
even to shake hands, and was reticent and sullen to all save j I
the doctor, with whom she entered freely into conversation, j
giving her reasons for doing so ; she said he was a spiritual |
doctor and would understand her. j
When he asked her name she quickly replied:— j
r Katrina Hogan.” j
“How old?” I
“ Sixty-three years.” i
“ Where from ?” j
!| Germany.” r!
“ How long ago ?” ! I
“Three days.”
“ How did you come ?” ! j
“ Through the air.”
“ How long will you stay ?”
“ Three weeks.”
After this kind of conversation had proceeded for some ! j
time, she modified her manners, appearing to be a little | (
penitent and confidential, and said she would be honest and j |
tell the doctor her real name. She was not a woman; and j i j
her real name was Willie. On being asked what was her J j
father’s name, replied, “ Peter Canning,” and her own name ;
was Willie Canning, a young man who ran away from home, i
got into difficulty, changed his name several times, and j ] j
finally lost his life, and was now here because he wanted to M
be. She grew weary with answering questions and giving j
details. Then she turned upon the doctor with a perfect I]
shower of questions, such as,, What is your name ? Where i i
do you live ? Are you married ? How many children ? j
How many boys ? How many girls ? What is your occu- J
pation ? What kind of a doctor? What did you come to (I
Watseka for? Have you -ever been at the South Pole? j
North Pole ? Europe ? Australia ? Egypt ? Ceylon ? ]
Benares? Sandwich Islands?” and by a long series of (
questions evinced knowledge of geography. She next in¬
quired after the doctor’s habits and morals by questions like j
the following: “ Do you lie? get drunk ? steal ? swear? use j
tobacco ? tea ? coffee ? Do you go to church ? pray ?” She j
then asked to have the same questions put to Mr. Roff. She j
declined to ask them direct herself, but through the doctor. ! j
When, at about half-past five o’clock p.m., the visitors j j
arose to depart, she also arose, flung up her hands, and fell j i
upon the floor, straight, stiff, and rigid, as I have often seen j
sensitives fall with the “ power” in Methodist revival meet- !
ings, and believing it to be of the same nature, the doctor j J
took occasion to prove it, as he has done on those smitten | i
with the “ power,” by controlling body and mind, and j I
restoring them to a normal and rational state.
The visitors being again seated, he took her hands as they |
were held straight upwards, like iron bars, and by mesmeric I
action soon had the body under perfect control, and was in \
full and free communication with the sane and happy mind |
of Lurancy Yennum herself, who conversed with the grace j
and sweetness of an angel, declaring herself to be in heaven.
In this condition she answered the doctor’s questions with
reference to herself, her seemingly insane condition, and the
influences that controlled her, with great rationality and J
understanding. She regretted to have such evil controls
about her. She said she knew the evil spirit calling itself
Katrina and Willie, and others. The doctor asked her if she
must be controlled if it would not be better, if it were
possible, to have a higher, purer, happier, and more in¬
telligent control. She said she would prefer it if it could be j
so. Then on being advised, she looked about and inquired j
of those she saw, and described, and named, to find someone |
who would prevent the cruel and insane ones from returning !
to annoy her and the family. She said, “ There are a great j
many spirits here who would be glad to come,” and she |
again proceeded to give names and descriptions of persons !
long since deceased; some that she had never known, but j
known to older persons present. “ But,” she said, i
“ there is one the angels desire should come, and she wants j
to come.” On being asked if she knew who it was, she said,
“Her name is Mary Roff.” Mr. Roff being present, said,
“ That is my daughter; Mary Roff is my girl. Why, she
has been in heaven twelve years. Yes, let her come, we’ll
be glad to have her come.” Mr. Roff assured Lurancy that
Mary was good and intelligent and would help her all she
could ; stating further that Mary used to be subject to condi¬
tions like herself. Lurancy, after due deliberation and
counsel with spirits, said that Mary would take the place of
the former wild and unreasonable influence. Mr. Roff said
to her, “ Let your mother bring you to my house, and Mary
will be likely to come, and mutual benefit may be derived
from our former experience with Mary.” Thus by reaching
the sane mind of the girl, and through her the sane minds
of a better class of spirits, a contract or agreement was
made, to be kept sacred by the angels in heaven and
heaven’s agents in the flesh, by which a mortal body was to
be restored to health ; a spirit, unfortunate in earth-life, with
twelve years’ experience in spirit-life to have an amended
earthly experience, a child to be spiritualised and moulded
into a fine medium, an unbelieving and scoffing city to be
confounded, and the greatest truth the world has ever sought
established beyond doubt or cavil. How far the contract has
been kept by the spirits and their faithful co-labourers here,
the sequel will show.
The object of the visit now being attained, Dr. Stevens
asked, “ How long do you want to stay in this heaven ?”
She answered, “ Always, sir.”
“ But you will come back for the sake of your friends ?”
“ Yes, sir.”
“ When will you come back ? ”
“ At twelve o’clock.”
“ But the family will want rest. Can’t you come sooner? ”
“ Yes, sir, I can.”
“ How soon can you come ? ”
“ At nine o’clock, sir.”
“ Will you come at nine ? ”
“ I will.”
And so she did.
After nearly three hours of careful conversation, Mr. Roff
and the doctor retired, leaving the family satisfied that a
new fountain of light, and source of help had been reached.
On the following morning, Friday, February 1st, Mr.
Yennum called at the office of Mr. Roff and informed him
that the girl claimed to be Mary Roff and wanted to return
home. To use Mr. Yennum’s words—“ She seems like a
child real homesick, wanting to see her pa and ma and her
brothers.”
THE LIFE HISTORY OF MARY ROFF.
It now becomes necessary to give a brief sketch of the
life of Mary Roff, the daughter of Asa B. and Ann Roff.
She was born on the -8 th day of October, 1846, in Warren
Co., Ind. The family moved in November of the same year
to Williamsport, Ind., thence in September, 1847, to Middle-
port, 111., where they resided till June, 1857, when they
removed to Victoria, Texas, in search of relief for a sick
child. In March, 1858, they returned to Gilman, and
remained there and at Onarga, 111., till the building of the
Toleda, Peoria, and Warsaw Railroad, when they returned
to Middleport, November 8th, 1859, and built the first house
in the new town of South Middleport, which is now a part
of the city of Watseka, where they still reside.
In the spring of 1847, when about six months old, Mary
was taken sick and had a fit, in which she remained several
hours. After the fit, she became conscious and lay several
days without the family having much hope of her recovery.
In two or three weeks she seemed to have entirely recovered.
A few weeks later she acted, on one occasion, like a child
going into a fit. The pupils of her eyes dilated, the muscles
slightly twitched, but this lasted but a few moments. From
the age of about six months, she had these spells as de¬
scribed, once in from three to five weeks, all the time
increasing in violence, until her tenth year, when they
proved to be real fits. She had from one to three and
sometimes four or five of them within a period of three or
four days, when they would cease, and she would enjoy good
health until the next period approached. At these times,
she lor a few days would seem sad and despondent, in which
mood she would sing and play the most solemn music (for
with all the rest of her studies, in which she was considered
Sept. 27, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
147
well advanced, she had learned music), and almost always
would sing the beautiful song, “We are coming, Sister ]
Mary,” which was a favourite song with her.
When she was fifteen years old, and the violence of the i
fits had increased, the parents say they could see that her |
mind was affected during the melancholy periods prior |
to the fits. Dr. Jesse Bennett, now residing at Sparta,
Wis., and Dr. Franklin Blades, now Judge of the Eleventh |
Judicial Circuit of Illinois, and a resident in Watseka, were j
employed to attend her. Dr. N. S. Davis, of Chicago, 1
Illinois, and several other prominent physicians had ex- j
amined her. They kept her in the water cure establishment j
at Peoria, Illinois, under the care of Dr. Nevins, for eighteen I
months, but all to no purpose.
In the summer of 1864 she seemed to have almost a i
mania for bleeding herself for the relief, as she said, “of I
the lump of pain in the head.” Drs. Fowler, Secrest, and j
Pitwood were called and applied leeches. She would apply j
them herself to her temples, and liked them, treating them
like little pets, until she again seemed sound and well.
On Saturday morning, July 16th, 1864, in one of her j
desponding moods, she secretly took a knife with her to the
back yard, and cut her arm terribly; after bleeding exces- |
sively, she fainted. This occurred about nine o’clock a.m.
She remained unconscious till two o’clock p.m., when she !
became a raving maniac of the most violent kind, in which j
condition she remained five days and nights, requiring |
almost constantly the services of five of the most ablebodied j
men to hold her on the bed, although her weight was only |
about one hundred pounds, and she had lost nearly all her |
blood. When she ceased raving, she looked and acted quite
naturally and well, and could do everything she desired as !
readily and properly as at any time in her life. Yet she j
seemed to know no one, and could not recognise the pre- j
sence of persons at all, although the house was nearly filled j
with people night and day.
THE CLAIRVOYANCE OF MARY ROFF.
She had no sense whatever of sight, feeling, or hearing !
in a natural way, as was proved by every test that could be I
applied. She could read blindfolded, and do everything as j
readily as by her natural sight when in health. She would j
dress, stand before the glass, open and search drawers, pick I
up loose pins, or do any and all things readily under heavy I
blindfoldings.
Near the time, in 1864, when she cut her arm, while j
blindfolded, she took Dr. Hall’s Encyclopedia, turned to the j
index, traced the column till she came to the word “ blood,” I
then turned to the page indicated and read the subject j
through. On another occasion she took a box of her letters j
received from her friends, and sat down, heavily blindfolded j
by critical, intelligent, investigating gentlemen, examined J
and read them without error or hesitation. When the Rev. j
J. H. Rhea, Editor A. J. Smith, Mr. Roff, and others, mis- i!
placed and promiscuously arranged some of their own j
letters with Mary’s, she at once proceeded to correctly draw 1
out the intruded letters and examine them. If wrong side
up, she would quickly turn them, and read aloud the address
thereon, and throw violently away every letter not her own;
she re-arranged twenty or thirty letters in the order she <
desired to have them. The Rev. J. H. Rhea was the J
Methodist minister in charge at that time ; Mr. A. G.
Smith was editor of the Iroquois county Republican, now j i
editor of the Danville (111.) Times. Her case was also in- J
vestigated by all the prominent citizens of Watseka at that
time. !
With the physicians her peculiar condition was called j]
catalepsy. With the clergy it was one of the mysteries of j j
God’s providence, with which we should have little to do. \
With editors, who are obliged to be wise or silent, it was j j
“ fits,” or some unaccountable phenomenon. The editor of j ]
the Danville Times, in a recent issue, writes:—
“ Now as to Mary Roff, it was our fortune to know the sweet girl, who I (
was herself a cataleptic, and who died twelve years ago. Disease |1
dethroned her reason and maddened her brain, until she sought her own j j
and others’ lives, and the modest young lady was transformed into a i <
screaming maniac. She had periods of exemption from raving, and thus j '
her aberrant mind conceived fancies of the queerest hue, creating the j j
most impossible beings for associates, and conversing with them, she | <
maintained her own side of the conversation in a usual tone of voice, ! 1
While imagination supplied her created associates with language and i ‘
j intelligence. When in this condition, her father and mother as-erted
the discovery that Mary could read a book with its lids closed, and they
desired us to test the correctness of what they claimed. We therefore
j took from our side pocket a letter enclosed in an envelope, and holding
i. it before her bandaged eyes, said to her, ‘ Mary, read the signature to
that letter.’ Immediately the proper name was pronounced,
i “ After remaining in the clairvoyant state above related for three or
four days, she came again to her normal condition and in good health as
I she usually was, except the fits. From this time she continued as she
| had been prior to cutting her arm. Her fits increased, and her parents
| were advised to place her in the insane asylum.
“ On July 5th, 1865, while her parents were at Peoria, Illinois, on a
| three days’ visit, she ate a hearty breakfast, and soon thereafter lay
| down on her bed, and in her usual health went to sleep. In a few
minutes she was heard to scream, as was usual on taking a fit. On
approaching her bedside, they found her in a fit, and in a few moments
| she expired.”
THE RETURN TO EARTH OF A RISEN SPIRIT.
We now return and take up the original narrative where
we left it, dating February 1st, 1878, when it was first seen
that Mary Roff had control of Lurancy’s body, and teased
to go home. Could it be possible the gulf of death had
bridged ? the gates of heaven left open ?
From the wild, angry, ungovernable girl, to be kept only
under lock and key, or the more distressing watch of almost
frantic parents, the girl had now become mild, docile, polite,
I and timid, knowing none of the Vennum family, but con-
| stantly pleading to go home. The family tried to convince
| her that she was at home, and must remain. Weeping, she
I would not be pacified, and only found contentment in going
I back to heaven, as she said, for short visits.
About a week after she took control of the body, Mrs. A.
B. Roff and her daughter, Mrs. Minerva Alter, Mary’s sister,
S hearing of the remarkable change, went to see the girl. As
j they came in sight, far down the street, Mary, looking out of
the window, exclaimed exultingly, “ There comes my ma
| and sister Nervie !” the name by which Mary used to call
j Mrs. Alter in girlhood. As they came into the house, she
caught them around their necks, wept and cried for joy, and
! seemed very happy to meet them. From this time she
j seemed more homesick than before. At times she was
almost frantic to go home. Finally some friends of the
| family insisted on their sending her to Mr. Roff, which they
i reluctantly consented to do.
Mr. and Mrs. Roff, with their hearts full of the milk of
human kindness, opened their doors and hearts to receive
| the unfortunate girl.
On the llth day of February, 1878, the girl reached Mr.
Roff’s, where she met her “ pa and ma,” and each member
of the family, with the most gratifying expressions of love
! and affection, by words and embraces. On being asked how
I long she would stay, she said, “ The angels will let me stay
I till some time in May and she made it her home there
till May 21st, three months and ten days, a happy, contented
| daughter and sister in a borrowed body.
After the girl was at Mr. Roff’s, the Rev. Baker said to
| Mr. Yennum, “ I think you will see the time, when you will
i wish you had sent her to the asylum.” Mrs. Jolly said, if
| she ever came home she would be more trouble than ever,
j Another relative, more religious than humane, said, “I
| would sooner follow a girl of mine to the grave than have her
| go to Roff’s and be made a Spiritualist.” Dr. Jewett called
| it catalepsy No. 2.
The girl, now in her new home, seemed perfectly happy,
knowing every person and everything that Mary knew when
! in her original body, twelve to twenty-five years ago;
| recognising and calling by name those who were friends and
| neighbours of the family from 1852 to 1865, when Mary
died, and calling attention to scores, yes hundreds, of
j incidents that transpired during her natural life. During
| all the period of her sojourn at Mr. Roff’s she had no know¬
ledge of, and did not recognise any of Mr. Yennum’s family,
their friends or neighbours, yet Mr. and Mrs. Yennum and
their children visited her and Mr. Roff’s people, she being
introduced to them as to any strangers. After frequent visits,
and hearing them often and favourably spoken of, she
learned to love them as acquaintances, and visited them
with Mrs. Roff three times. From day to day she appeared
I natural, affable and industrious, attending diligently and
| faithfully to her household duties, assisting in the general
I work as the faithful, prudent daughter might be supposed to
i to do, singing, reading, or conversing as .opportunity
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 27, 1878.
offered upon all matters of private or general interest to the i j j
family. 15 j
Three days after she came to Mr. Hoff’s while looking at j j
him and seeming to be in a sort of retrospective reverie, she | j |
asked, “ Pa, who was it used to say {confound it?’” and |||
laughed very heartily when she saw that he understood it to l|
be himself, that being a common expression of his in the j j
time of her girlhood, twelve to twenty years ago. |) j
One day she met an old friend and neighbour of Mr. j (j
Hoff’s, who was a widow when Mary was a girl at home, j j |
Some years since the lady married a Mr. Wagoner, with m
whom she yet lives. But when she met Mrs. Wagoner, she j (I
clasped her around the neck, and said, v 0 Mary Lord, you j j j
look so very natural, and have changed the least of any one j (j
I have seen since I came back.” Mrs. Lord was in some [j I
way related to the Yennum family, and lived close by them, j > j
but Mary could only call her by the name by which she knew J j |
her fifteen years ago, and could not seem to realise that j | j
she was married. Mrs. Lord lived just across the street ! j 1
from Mr. Hoff’s, for several years prior and up to within a HI
few months of Mary’s death; both being members of the j M
same Methodist church, they were very intimate. H j
Some days after Mary had settled in her new home, Mrs. j j j
Parker, who lived as a neighbour to the Hoff’s in Middle- I (|
port, in 1852, and next door to them in Watseka in 1860, j) j
came in with her daughter-in-law, Nellie Parker. Mary j< I
immediately recognised both of the ladies, calling Mrs. Parker, j 11
“Auntie Parker,” and the other “Nellie,” as in the acquain- H |
tanceship of eighteen years ago. In conversation with Mrs. j < J
Parker, Mary asked, “ Do you remember how Nervie and I j > i
used to come to your home and sing?” Mrs. Parker says that I (|
was the first allusion made to that matter, nothing having 11 j
been said by any one on that subject, and says that Mary and j j
Minerva used to come to their house and sit and sing, “ Mary 111
had a little lamb,” &c. Mrs. Alter (Minerva) says she | < |
remembers it well. This was when Mr. Hoff kept the post- j) |
office, and could not have been later than 1852, and twelve j |
years before Lurancy was born. j j
One evening in the latter part of March, Mr. Hoff was j j
sitting in the room waiting for tea, and reading the paper, I \
Mary being out in the yard. He asked Mrs. Hoff if she j j
could find a certain velvet headdress that Mary used to wear | j
the last year before she died ; if so, to lay it on the stand | j
and say nothing about it, to see if Mary would recognise it. I)
Mrs. Hoff readily found and laid it on the stand. The girl j j j
soon came in, and immediately exclaimed as she approached j | j
the stand : “ 0, there is my head-dress I wore when my hair j j j
was short!” She then asked, “ Ma, where is my box of j | i
letters? Have you got them yet?” Mrs. Hoff replied, |
“ Yes, Mary, I have some of them.” She at once got the 111
box with many letters in it. As Mary began to examine I j j
them she said, “ 0, ma, here is a collar I tatted! Ma, why j
did you not show to me my letters and things before ?” The j) i
collar had been preserved among the relics of the lamented | j j
child as one of the beautiful things her fingers had wrought j j I
before Lurancy was born; and so Mary continually recognised j j
every little thing and remembered every little incident of {] j
her girlhood. j j
It will be remembered that the family moved to Texas in j j
1857. Mr. Hoff asked Mary if she remembered moving to j j
Texas or anything about it. “ Yes, pa, and I remember I |
crossing Hed River and seeing a great many Indians, and I | j
remember Mrs. Reeder’s girls, who were in our company.” j 11
And thus she from time to time made first mention of things j
which transpired thirteen to twenty-five years ago.
On Feb. 19 Mr. Hoff addressed the writer as follows :—
“You know how we took the poor, dear girl Lurancy (Mary). j
Some appreciate our motives, but the many, without investigation j > j
and without a knowledge of the facts, cry out against us and against | ) j
that angel girl. Some say she pretends; others that she is crazy; m
and we hear that some say it is the devil. . . . Mary is perfectly j; j
happy; she recognises everybody and everything that she knew when j / j
in her body twelve or more years ago. She knows nobody nor any- i \ j
thing whatever that is known by Lurancy. . . . Mrs. Vennum has j ) j
been to see her, and also her brother Henry, at different times, but j ) j
she don’t know anything about them. Mr. Yennum is still unable to j s I
come and see her daughter. She has been nothing but Mary since j ) j
she has been here, and knows nothing but what Mary knew. She | ) i
has entered the trance once every other day for some days. She is is!
perfectly happy. . . . You don’t know how much comfort we take j >!
with the dear angel.” j ll
The child has often said she likes Dr. Stevens next to her
pa, because he opened the gate for her to come in, and
because he has done so much for her pa and ma, and her
brothers, and for Lurancy’s body, and feeling that gratitude
she wrote him a letter by permission of the parents, on the
20th of February, in which she said :—
“I am yet here. . . . Frank is better. . . . Nervie is here for dinner;
Allie Alter is going to stay all night; Mrs. Marsh was here to-day, and
read a beautiful letter to us. I wish you could spend the evening with
us. ... I would like to have your picture to look at. . . . Please
write to pa when you get time. . . . We all send our love to you. . . .
I like it here very much, and am going to stay all the time I
went to heaven and stayed about an hour It seems a long time
since I saw you. . . . Forget me not. G-ood night. Mary Roff.”
She wrote to the doctor again on February 1st:
“ I have just finished a letter to brother Frank. He went back to his
store feeling quite well. The boys have gone out to play for a
dance. ... In the evening I went to heaven, and I saw some of the
beautiful things, and talked with the angels, 7. • . and be sure I don’t
forget when I go to heaven and come back Fear the Lord and
depart from evil.—Prov. hi. 7. Mary Hoff.”
It may here be said that it was frequently the case that
when Mary went to heaven, as she called it, other spirits
sometimes, by permission, would come and present them¬
selves, and speak freely their own language and sentiments.
Mrs. Alter, under date of April 16th, 1878, writes of
Mary as follows :—
“ My angel sister says she is going away from us again soon, but says
she will be often with us. She says Lurancy is a beautiful girl; says
she sees her nearly every day, and we do know she is getting better
every day. Oh, the lessons that are being taught us are worth treasures
of rare diamonds ; they are stamped upon the mind so firmly that
heaven and earth shall pass away before one jot or one tittle shall be
forgotten I have learned so much that is grand and beautiful, I
cannot express it; I am dumb A few days ago Mary was caressing
her father and mother, and they became a little tired of it, and asked
why she hugged and kissed them. She sorrowfully looked at them and
said, ‘ Oh, pa and ma! I want to kiss you while I have lips to kiss you
with, and hug you while I have arms to hug you with, for I am going
back to heaven before long, and then I can only be with you in spirit,
and you will not always know when I come, and I cannot love you as I
can now. Oh, how much I love you all! ’ ”
('To be continued.)
PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S EXPERIMENTS WITH
DR. SLADE—[continued).
On Slade’s return to Leipzig, Professor Zollner’s first
experiments were with objects such as hand-bells and a
harmonica placed under the table, where they were made to
ring and play while Slade’s hands and feet were visible to
the sitters. On one occasion a metal ball was suspended by
a silken cord within a glass globe; this was placed under
the table, a good light was thrown upon it by candles arranged
for the purpose, and while Professors Weber and Scheibner,
as well as Professor Zollner, watched, with their chairs
drawn back four feet from the table, the ball began to
oscillate and to strike at regular intervals against the inner
surface of the glass globe.
As a test that the writing on the slates was not prepared
beforehand, Slade one evening took a slate at haphazard, and
asked Mr. Zollner to wish for certain words to be written.
Mr. Zollner said, after the slate was in position, “ Littron),
Astronomer." A sound of writing was heard, Slade’s hand
being watched during the process. On turning up the slate,
the desired words were found written in distinct letters.
An experiment with magnetic needles is of special inte¬
rest. Two needles, a large and a small one, each enclosed
in glass, were placed in front of Mr. Weber. Slade’s hands
interlinked with those of the Professors on the table, at
about one foot distant from the needles. The smaller one
began suddenly to swing, until a constant motion was set
up, whereas the larger needle showed only slight oscilla¬
tions. Perceiving that some kind of force was at work, Mr.
Zoliner suggested to Slade to try whether he could produce
any effect upon an unmagnetised needle. He brought a
number of knitting-needles, from which he and Mr. Weber
selected one, which they tested by the compass, and found
to be totally unmagnetised. Slade laid the needle on a
slate, and held it against the under side of the table, as if
for writing. After about four minutes he placed it again
on the table, when one end of the needle was found to be
sufficiently magnetic to attract steel shavings and sewing-
Sept. 27, 1878.
149
tHE SPIRlTtJAlIST.
needles, and to turn the compass-needle. The magnetised
end was a south pole. The needle is in Professor Zollner’s
possession, and can he seen and tested by any one de¬
siring it.
The next experiment was with ajar of flour, in which the
impression of a hand was found, with all the marks of the
cuti cle distinctly discernible. At the same time a portion of
the flour, also bearing the marks of a large, powerful hand,
was left on Mr. Zollner’s trousers at the knee, where he
had a minute before felt the grasp. Slade’s hands were on
the table throughout, and on examination were found to
have no trace of flour upon them. The impression was,
besides, that of a larger hand than Slade’s. The jar of
flour is preserved by Mr. Zollner, though, as he says, the
skin-marks are becoming gradually obliterated by the falling
together of the particles of meal.
Later on they obtained a more permanent impression with
paper blackened over a petroleum lamp, and fastened on to
a board. On this the mark of a bare left foot appeared. In
obedience to the request of the Professor, Slade rose imme¬
diately afterwards from his chair, showed both his feet, and
took off his shoes, but no trace of lamp-black was visible.
His foot was then measured, and a difference of four centi¬
metres in size was found to exist between it and the
impression on the paper. A similar experiment was related
by Mr. H. D. Jencken, in this journal last week. Slade
and Zollner afterwards repeated the experiment, using a
slate in place of the board, and the impression thus received
was afterwards photographed, and is reproduced among the
plates appended to Zdllner’s second volume. The Professor
calls attention to the fact that the impression is evidently
that of a foot which has been compressed by tight-fitting
boots, one toe being so completely covered by the other as
not to be visible at all, as is shown in the photograph. He
also enters in detail into the reasons why this impression
could not have been produced by Slade’s foot, even on the
theory of certain “ men of science ” in Leipzig, that Slade
had pieces cut out of the soles of his stockings for this
express purpose.
Some experiments concerning the inter-action of acids
and polarised light, also with the relation of Slade’s clair¬
voyant sight to prisms, by which Professor Zollner sets
great store, will have an especial interest for those versed in
chemistry and optics, but are somewhat too technical for
ordinary readers. Professor Zollner is, however, not the
first who has experimented in this direction, Dr. J. Purdon
having for some years past made observations on the pecu¬
liarities of vision in mediums, which he hopes some day to
give to the world.
A further attempt to get footmarks met with the most
successful results. In Slade’s absence Mr. Zollner pasted
two sheets of paper, prepared with lamp-black, to the
inner sides of a folding slate. He remarked to Slade that,
if his theory of the existence of four-dimensional beings
were correct, such beings must be able to produce footmarks
in a closed slate as well as on an open one. Slade said he
thought it was impossible, but he consented to try, and
even allowed Mr. Zollner to have the slate on his lap during
the experiment, in order that he might keep it fully in view.
After sitting about five minutes in a well-lighted room, all
hands being on the table, Mr. Zollner remarked that he
had twice felt a pressure on the slate in his lap, but that he
had seen nothing. Three raps on the table announced that
all was finished; on opening the slate, two impressions
were found—one of a right, the other of a left foot—on the
prepared paper on either side of the slate.
Professor Zollner says : “ My readers may judge for them¬
selves how far it is possible for me, after witnessing these
facts, to consider Slade either an impostor or a conjuror.
Slade’s own astonishment at this last result was even greater
than my own. Whatever may be thought of the correctness
of my theory with regard to the existence of intelligent
beings in four-dimensional space, at all events it cannot be
said to be useless as a clue to research in the mazes of
Spiritualistic phenomena.”
Passing over the Professor’s strictures on the position of
such'men of science as Helmholtz and Virchow towards
these phenomena, we will proceed to the experiments related
in the third volume of the Abhandlungen, which took place
during a subsequent visit of Slade to Leipzig, in May, 1878.
We quote from the text:—
u The experiments formerly described (17th Dec.*) with
the knotted cord suggests two explanations, according as
one supposes a space of three or of four dimensions. In the
first case, there must have been a so-called passage of matter
through matter; or, in other words, the molecules of which
the cord consists must have been separated in certain places,
and then, after the other portion of cord had been passed
through, again united in the same position as at first. In
the second case, the manipulation of the flexible cord being,
according to my theory, subject to the laws of a four¬
dimensional region of space, such a separation and re-union
of molecules would not be necessary. The cord would,
however, certainly undergo during the process an amount of
twisting which would be discernible after the knots were
tied. I had not paid attention to this circumstance in
December last year, and had not examined the cords with
regard to the size and direction of the twist. The following
experiment, however, which took place on the 8th May this
year, in a sitting of a quarter of an hour’s duration, with
Mr. Slade in a well-lighted room, furnishes an answer to
the above question in favour of the four-dimensional theory
without separation of material particles.
The experiment was as follows:—“ I took two bands cut out
of soft leather, 44 centimetres long, and from 5 to 10 milli¬
metres broad, and fastened the end of each together, as
formerly described with the cords, and sealed them with my
own seal. The two leather bands were laid separately on
the card table at which we sat; the seats were placed opposite
to one another, and I held my hands over the bands. Slade
sat at my left side, and placed his right hand gently over
mine, I being able to feel the leather underneath all the
time. Slade asserted that he saw lights emanating from my
hands, and could feel a cool wind over them. I felt the
latter, but could not see the lights. Presently, while I still
distinctly felt the cool breeze, and Slade’s hands were not
touching mine, but were removed from them about two or
three decimetres, I felt a movement of the leather bands
under my hands. Then came three raps in the table, and
on removing my hands the two leather bands were knotted
together. The twisting of the leather is distinctly seen in
the photographic illustration at the end of Vol. III. The
time that the bands were under my hands was at most three
minutes.”
Several instances are related of apports, or of objects being
brought in an abnormal manner to those sitting with the
medium. Pieces of wood and coal were observed to descend
from the ceiling, and on one occasion a book was removed
from its position on a slate held under the flap of the table,
and about five minutes afterwards was seen to fall from the
ceiling in a slanting direction on to the table.
The most striking case of this kind was that in which a
small round table, which stood beyond that at which Slade
and Zollner were sitting, one day moved gradually towards
them, and laid itself sideways on the floor at their feet. It
then vanished, and a few minutes later descended from the
ceiling on to the larger table at which they sat. For a full
account of this remarkable phenomenon, we refer our readers
to the Wiss. Abh., Vol. III., p. 917, while we hasten to
relate the last crowning event of Zollner’s experiences with
Slade.
The Professor procured two wooden rings, one of oak, the
other of alder, each turned in one entire piece. The outer
diameter of the rings was 105 millimetres, the inner 74
millimetres. He further procured a long strip of bladder,
cut in one entire piece without break or join, forming a kind
of endless cord or band.
Professor Zollner says : On the 9th May, at seven o’clock
in the evening, I was alone with Slade in our usual sitting-
room. A fresh wind having blown all the afternoon, the
sky was remarkably clear, and the room, which has a
westerly aspect, was brilliantly lighted by the setting sun.
The two wooden rings and the above-mentioned entire
bladder band were strung on to a piece of catgut one milli¬
metre in thickness, and 1*05 metre in length. The two ends
of the cat-gut were tied together by myself in a knot, and
* See Tht Spiritualist for February 15th, 1878, p. 78.
150
3?HE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 27, 1878.
then, as formerly in the case of the string, secured with my
own seal.
|i When Slade and I were seated at the table in the usual
manner, I placed my two hands over the upper end of the
sealed cat-gut, as shown in the plate, photographed from
life.* The small round table, already referred to, was placed
shortly after our entry into the room, in the position shown
in the picture.
“ After a few minutes had elapsed, and Slade had asserted,
repeated tricks. The same rule holds good as in all other
scientific work. The impartial and cool observer, who con¬
tinues patiently watching the operations of nature, is more
likely to be rewarded than he who disturbs them by trying
to impose his own conditions. As Goethe says:—
‘ Mysteriously in garish day,
Does Nature hide herself, her beauty veiling,
And when she wills not secrets to betray,
Nor screws nor levers will be found availing.’ ”
as usual during physical manifestations, that he saw lights, [\
a slight smell of burning was apparent in the room; it $
seemed to come from under the table, and somewhat recalled K
the smell of sulphuric acid. Shortly afterwards we heard a | ?
rattling sound, at the small round table opposite, as of pieces IS
of wood knocking together. When I asked whether we I?
should close the sitting, the rattling was repeated three K
times consecutively. We then left our seats, in order that j?
we might ascertain the cause of the rattling at the round is
table. To our great astonishment we found the two wooden j?
rings, which about six minutes previously were strung on is
the catgut, in complete preservation, encircling the leg of I?
the small table. The catgut was tied in two loose knots, |s
through which the endless bladder band was hanging un- j?
injured. |s
“ Immediately after the sitting .... Slade fell into one |?
of his usual trances, and informed us that the invisible is
beings surrounding him had endeavoured, according to my \)
wish, to tie some knots in the endless band, but had been K
obliged to abandon their intention, as the band was in j?|
danger of ‘melting’ during the operation under the great js!
increase of temperature, and that we should perceive this by ! ? I
the whiteness of a spot on the band. j s j
“ Having taken the band into my own hands immediately j?|
after the sitting, and held it up to the moment of Slade’s jsl
communication, I felt great interest in testing the correct- j ? |
ness of this assertion. There was, in fact, a white spot as m
indicated, and when we took another piece of exactly the |?j
same material and held it over a lighted candle, the effect is
of the increased temperature was to produce precisely such m
another white spot. This fact, in connection with the Isj
burning smell perceived during the sitting, as well as the \\\
increase in temperature in a former experiment (related on isj
p. 925, Wiss. Abk.), will be worth bearing in mind in further I? I
experiments with four-dimensional movements of bodies. ... js j
“ From the foregoing it may be seen that my prepared j?j
experiments did not succeed in the manner expected by me. jsj
For example, the two wooden rings were not linked together, j? I
but instead were transferred from the sealed cat-gut to the j s |
leg of the round birchen table. The seal was not loosened, j ? j
nor was the top of the table at any time removed ; and it jsl
still remains tightly fastened.” j)j
Professor Zollner concludes with some remarks on the jsj
necessity of complete passivity on the part of the observer j ? j
as regards the conditions under which these manifestations j s j
occur, and points out that their unexpected variety, and the j ? I
fact that the same things are not repeated at will, even jsj
when most desired by the sitters, are additional arguments j?j
why Slade cannot be credited with doing them himself, jsj
since a conjuror has always the greatest success with oft- j)j
THE GHOST OF A DOG.
BY THE BARONESS ADELMA VON VAT (COUNTESS 'WURMBRAND).
I have an interesting story to tell you. A lady of my
connection has written to me such a curious story about a dog’s
ghost, and as you have already mentioned in The Spiritualist
journal occurrences of spectral appearances of animals, I
will tell you this one too. The lady writes to me from
Kempten, in Bavaria; she says :
In my vicinity dwells a very respectable and wealthy
family, Mr. and Mrs. X. When newly married they dwelt
at Munich, in the second floor of a house. Mr. X.' had a
Pomeranian dog, who seemed to be very jealous of the young
wife; he often tried to bite her, and growled continually at
her, especially in the absence of her husband. Once, as she
lay in bed, when her husband was away, the dog sprang at
her throat; she had only time and presence of mind enough
to cry aloud, ‘ The master comes !’ at which words the dog
crawled growling away. After this, Mr. X. resolved to give
away the dog. From that moment the Pomeranian pined
away, fell sick, howled dreadfully, and one morning, at four
o’clock, was found dead. Beginning from that day, Mr. and
Mrs. X. regularly heard, at four o’clock every morning, a
jumping about and a howling just in the same way that the
dog used to do. The other people who dwelt in the house
began to complain about the noise on the premises, and
begged Mr. X. to leave the lodgings. After a time Mrs. X.
dreamed she saw the horrid dog on the stairs showing her
his teeth in bitter wrath. Another day Mr. and Mrs. X.
made a little excursion into the country, when a heavy
thunderstorm and rain set in; so they drove homewards,
and on reaching their house a loud crash of thunder took
place, accompanied by a blaze of lightning; they thought
the house was nearly on fire. On reaching the stairs the
lightning had fallen just in the place where Mrs. X. had
seen the dog seated in her dream. Mrs. X. was so terrified
that they immediately gave up their lodgings in that house.
They were never more disturbed in their new dwelling.”
Before closing I may mention that the President of the
Spiritist Society of Pest, Dr. Adolf Griinhut and his noble
wife, Mrs. Johanna Griinhut, had on the 30th August their,
as we call it, “ silver wedding,” the twenty-fifth anniversary
of their marriage day. The society of Pest presented them
with a beautiful silver drinking cup. They had a seance in
Dr. Griinhut’s rooms that evening, and listened to beautiful
trance addresses through three of their mediums. The
whole was a very touching scene ; the deep religious feeling
of all gave a truly heavenly hue to that soiree.
Gonobitz, Austria.
Signor Rondi has gone to Paris. Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher have returned
to London, and will receive their friends as usual on Monday next.
* The annexed woodcut is an exact copy.
Sept. 27, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
SPIRITUALISM IN PARIS.
(From our Special Correspondent.)
Paris, Tuesday.
During the past fortnight I have spent a considerable
portion of my time in seeing and hearing all I could of
Spiritualism and Spiritualists in Paris, and facilities for so
doing have been liberally offered me by various friends,
including the Count de Bullet, M. Leymarie, the Baron
Dupotet, and Dr. Locander.
Last Friday night some public experiments in mesmerism
were given at the Salle Philippe Herz by M. Donato, with
his psychical sensitive Mdlle. Lucie. The elegant and
richly-decorated hall presented a strong contrast to the great
majority of buildings used for public purposes in London ;
it was tolerably well filled on the occasion. I attended
with Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, the Baron Dupotet, and i
nine or ten new acquaintances, in whose minds an interest j
in psychic subjects had been awakened by Mrs. Gregory in
the course of conversations at a table d’hote. Some doctors
and some members of the French press took seats, at the
invitation of 11 Le Magnetiseur Donato,” upon seats at the
back of the platform, after which he invited the veteran
Spiritualist, the Baron Dupotet, to take the chair, and give
a short address to the listeners. At the conclusion of the
speech from the chair, which seemed to awaken a lively
interest among those present, M. Donato introduced Mdlle.
Lucie, a remarkably handsome young woman of perhaps
twenty years of age, dressed in a simple white robe, with a
white girdle round the waist, and with]loose hanging sleeves.
She was exceedingly sensitive to the mesmeric influence,
for M. Donato could send her into a somnambulic sleep by
merely gazing into her eyes for one minute from any dis¬
tance. When he made mesmeric passes behind her back
she evidently felt them, each motion of the hand making
her shake from head to foot.
The first experiment was of a repulsive nature, displeasing
to many of the observers, however interesting it may have
been to the French doctors. The mesmerist made the arm
of Mdlle. Lucie rigid, and made her stretch it out horizon¬
tally while she was in the mesmeric sleep. A long gold
shawl pin was then borrowed, and by invitation of M.
Donato, who assured them that Mdlle. Lucie was then in¬
sensitive to pain, the doctors ran the pin several times into
her arm just below the elbow, to the depth perhaps of half
an inch; but finally they ran it right through the arm ; the
distance between the place it entered and the place it came
out again was not less than three inches ; the centre of the
pin was then about one inch below the surface of the skin of
the arm. All this time the sensitive was rigid and im¬
movable ; not a muscle of her face moved. The mesmerist
then caused her to walk slowly up and down the hall, with
her bare arm extended, and the pin sticking through it, that
all might clearly see that the fact was beyond question, after
which he withdrew the pin, all covered with blood, from the
arm, and this repulsive part of the performance came to a
close. Fortunately there is not so very much pain in such
an operation even to persons in a waking state, for it is a
schoolboy freak to sometimes run a common pin, as far as it
will go, into the fleshy part of the arm; and one day I was
present when Sir John Lubbock hammered a pin into the
fleshy part of his leg, to show that certain acts which
appeared to be painful were not necessarily so. But not a
muscle of Mdlle. Lucie’s face moved during the whole of the
operations just described, her rigid and extended arm never
trembled, and the long shawl pin right through the arm was
an experiment on a larger scale than the others just men¬
tioned with short common pins.
He next made her open her eyes while in the mesmeric
sleep, but there was “ no speculation ” in them, and he
rivetted her gaze upon the eyes of a gentleman in the
audience, who was endowed with a comical face and some¬
what large organs of vision. She followed him up and down
the hall, twisting round him when he turned his head, in
order not to lose sight of his fascinating eyes, and when he
put his hand before his face the somnambulist knocked it
down with a sharp slap. He then proceeded to make hideous
grimaces at Mdlle. Lucie, who, however, gazed at him
fixedly with as sad an expression of countenance as a
penitent gazing at a statue of the Virgin. The observers
| were roaring with laughter, but the gravity of the sensitive
! was undisturbed.
The mesmerist next made her so deaf that on shouting
I close to her ear, almost loud enough to split the drum of it,
! she moved not a muscle. Next he either abnormally exalted
her powers of hearing, or rendered her truly clairaudient—
probably the latter. Some doctors stuffed her ears with
plenty of cotton wool, after which a handkerchief was tied
tightly over both her ears. Then when the mesmerist, at the
distance of two or three feet from her, whispered sentences
(given to him by the audience) in so low a tone that those
! close to his mouth could scarcely hear all he said, she heard
them, and repeated them verbatim. Two doctors suggested
that there might be collusion, so they were allowed to choose
their own sentence, and one of them to do the whispering
himself. Nevertheless Mdlle. Lucie repeated all he said,
and the doctor candidly admitted his satisfaction. Had the
body of the doctor been “ dead,” and himself out of the body
instead of in it, he might possibly have performed the same
experiment, and. through the mediumship of Mdlle. Lucie,
given utterances from the land of spirits to a disbelieving
world.
Last Saturday I called upon Mdlle. Huet, at 173, Rue St.
Honore. She bears the reputation of being a good rapping
medium, but no raps were heard at the seance which then
took place. The other sitters present were Dr. Kennedy, an
American Spiritualist, and Mr. Lacroix, a Spiritualist from
Canada. By tiltings of the table the following message
was given :—u I am an old friend of Cogmaris. Cogman
and his wife are with me.” I remarked that there appeared
to be some mistake, for Mrs. Cogman was still living in the
body. Another influence then came, and on the name of the
communicant being asked, the following answer was given :
u Cogman. I was a medium. The sister of Mrs. Williams is
with me ; she is a victim of the u Princess Alice.” Her hus¬
band also is a victim; his name is Smith.” I knew nothing
of the facts stated in this message, and did not know that
Mr. and Mrs. Williams had relatives of the name of Smith.
All present, including the medium, testified that they had
,, i been in equal ignorance, and at the time that I send this to
| j press I do not know whether the statements in the message
| | are true or false. Mdlle. Huet has a feeble smattering of
| | the English language, and the message is in far better
| i English than she can put together. It was given with some
| | determination, that is to say, no attention was paid by the
| i communicating intelligence to various questions put in
I | English and French during the signalling of the message,
| | but at the close off such interruptions, the communication
began again at the point at which it had been broken off.
I Mdlle. Huet seemed not to know what the message was or
to feel any interest in what was coming, but directly a
message began to come in French through her mediumship
| she was all attention and animation.
In reply to leading questions, whereby the trustworthiness
of the communication must be lessened, it was asserted :—
j \ “ Mr. Williams is in the spirit world. Spirits are using fiis
I | body without his consent, and he often does not like what they
| (I are doing with it; yet they are good spirits.”
Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the British National
j | Association of Spiritualists, is here, and has made the
I I personal acquaintance of M. Leymarie, whom he once tried
j j to aid when unjustly attacked at law by people ignorant of
I | psychical subjects. Mr. Calder has strong claims upon the
| | attention of the French Government, because he once
I ! relieved and entertained all the officers and men of a ship-
| | wrecked French line-of-battle ship in China, and sent them
| I back safely to their native country. For this he received the
I | Cross of the Legion of Honour.
Mr. F. A. Binney, solicitor, of 24, St. Ann’s-square,
j j Manchester, one of the members of the Council of the
| I British National Association of Spiritualists, has sent me a
| | prospectus of his proposed 11 English Peasant Farm Associa-
|;| tion, Limited.” Of the commercial aspects of his scheme I
|j| know nothing, and am not competent to express an opinion,
|j| but of the merit of its religious and social aspect I am
||| certain. Spiritualism teaches that the body and soul are
I I connected by processes governed by natural law, that they
ij | act and react upon each other, hence that the proper culti-
''i vation of the body exercises a beneficial influence on the
152
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Sept. 27, 1878.
spirit; and that although man brought nothing into this
world, he can take a very great deal out of it in the shape of
accumulated spiritual and intellectual experiences, gained
inside a body not so subjected to material disadvantages,
that time and opportunity were not at command for the
cultivation of the intellect. On these principles political
economy is an essential branch of true religion, and Mr.
Binney’s prospectus is one enunciating principles at the. very
root of national laws which so overwork vast masses of
Englishmen, that uncultured and degraded spirits are
launched in abnormal numbers into the land beyond the grave.
Here are some extracts from the said prospectus :—
It is intended to purchase large farming estates; to divide them into
ten or fifteen acre farms; erect cottages and suitable outhouses, and sell
them off to peasant proprietors at a small profit, the purchase money
being secured by mortgage of the farm at an annual interest of say four
per cent., and payable by annual instalments extending over a period of
twenty-five or thirty years.
It is calculated that a company, having the foregoing objects in view,
will be a great boon to the English agricultural labouring classes, who
at present are, from want of capital, utterly unable ever to raise them¬
selves in the social scale. Their interest at present is to do as little as
possible, and get the largest wages they can. They have no other interest
in the land they till, and are devoid of all stimulus to thrift, industry,
and independence. By giving them small farms of their own, these men
will be encouraged to labour untiringly upon the land that belongs to
them; they will increase its productiveness.
In a measure, the proposed scheme would be an application of the
principles of the building society to the agricultural labourer and the
land. The success of building societies in large towns like Man¬
chester (which has almost been entirely built by their agency) seems
to suggest that the same principle would be applicable to the creation of
small peasant farms.
It is an admitted fact amongst all the authorities on this subject that
more can be got out of the land by a small proprietor tilling his own soil
than by a large farmer employing hired labour. This being so, it is
obvious that the land so purchased and laid out will ipso facto increase
in value, and a higher price can be realised per acre for such small
farms than for large ones. A writer in the World for December 12,
1877, states that “the late Duke of Rutland has largely benefited the
labouring population on his estates by sub-dividing his farms into small
allotments, and that at the present time there are no fewer than 700
allotments, varying from a sixth to a quarter of an acre, at Belvoir alone.
The results of the system are, I believe, even commercially a success,
the land being brought into a high state of cultivation, and the rent
regularly paid.”
Again, it might be found desirable to encourage a still poorer class of
men to engage in farming on their own account—namely, the day
labourers, without even sufficient capital to support themselves until the
land began to yield produce in return for labour expended on it. For
these men it might not be worth while to build farm-houses and farm-
buildings, and in their case a neat row of cottages overlooking the land
allotted to them might be erected for their accommodation, at weekly
rents. They might continue in their regular employment as day
labourers, either for some of the small peasant farmers or for their usual
employers, and maintain themselves by the wages so earned. . . . These
small transactions would doubtless involve more trouble than the returns
would compensate for; yet these men are precisely those who most need
the assistance, so necessary for a first step towards raising them above
this hand-to-mouth life of the day labourer. At present they are too
poor to take any farm, however small, so long as it involves their working
several months without weekly wages, since even the smallest of farmers
must be something of a capitalist.
Independently of the commercial aspects of the question, it cannot be
doubted that it would be a great blessing to the poorer classes in the
country districts. It would raise up a class of yeomen, check the emigra¬
tion of some of the best blood of the country, diminish poor rates, and
cover the land with smiling happy homesteads, surrounded by thriving
orchards, and inhabited by industrious, contented people. Where
money can be so usefully employed in doing a real good (and that
without risk to principal or interest), it is confidently expected that, in
these days of low bank rates and unemployed capital, there is sufficient
raison d’etre for the proposed undertaking.
Mr. J. S. Mill, in his ^Principles of Political Economy, treats very
exhaustively of the question of peasant proprietorship, and adduces
overwhelming proofs, from the writings of acute observers, of the culture
in France, Belgium, Switzerland, Germany, Norway, and the Channel
Isles, to prove that the division of the land into small farms, tilled by
the owner, is an immense advantage, both to the peasantry and to the
country. All his authorities cannot here be quoted; but the following
conclusions (p. 189) may be cited:—
“ As the result of this inquiry into the direct operation and indirect
influences of peasant properties, I conceive it to be established that there
is no necessary connection between this form of landed property and an
imperfect state of the arts of production; that it is favourable in quite
as many respects as it is unfavourable to the most effective use of the
powers of the soil; that no other existing state of agricultural economy
has so beneficial an effect on the industry, the intelligence, the frugality,
and prudence of the population, nor tends, on the whole, so much to
discourage an improvident increase of their numbers; and that no
existing state therefore is on the whole so favourable, both to their moral
and their physical welfare. Compared with the English system of culti¬
vation by hired labour, it must be regarded as eminently beneficial to
the labouring classes.”
|(f In the foregoing quotations, Mr. Binney’s prospectus has
! | been grievously cut down; but apart from its commercial
I | aspects, it drives more at the root of all English social evils
Mj than any document I have seen for a long time, and I hope
||| that he will enlist in his support men who have given
| | attention to various aspects of the question, such as Mr.
| ! Buskin, Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert, of St. Albans, Mr.
[ | Alderman Mechi, of Tiptree Hall, and Professor Thorold
I)| Bogers.
|1| I write this in the middle of a country of peasant pro-
| | prietors, where there is free trade in land, and land is bought
i j and sold like other property. The majority of the working
| | classes and small shopkeepers are consequently much better
j j off than in England, notwithstanding a few comparative
j | disadvantages, such as the fettering of the liberty of the
| | press, and prohibition to some extent of free public meetings.
| | The happy
1“ Cottage homes of England ”
| now scarcely exist; but in France the agriculturist usually
owns his own land, looks erect as a free man at everybody,
has a little property of his own, and a home, from which he
I cannot be dismissed, buried in surroundings of fruits and
j( flowers. As the produce of his industry has not been
| j regularly pumped away from him by the raising of rents,
j j he has been able to empty old stockings, filled with his
I | savings, to pay off the enormous German ransom, and to
| | refill the stockings once more. Germany has been made
I i poorer by the money, because it has spent it on unproductive
j labour, such as salaries to generals, captains, and so on.
| I The people in France are happy and contented ; they have
I i smiling faces; the haggard look of care seen on nearly
j | every face in English towns is not here. I have never seen
I a French subject dressed in rags, and have met only
i | two beggars since I have been in Paris ; even these had a
111 neat, comfortable look, and one was relieved at once in my
| | sight by some of the French working classes. In the Paris
| | Exhibition, a few days ago, I saw a crowd with open eyes
| | round the picture of an English workhouse, with a ragged
| I crowd outside, waiting admission. The picture was a purely
i 5; natural one, not overdrawn, and the scene such as anybody
I | can see in reality in all parts of England; but to the
| | French people gazing at it, it must have been a representa-
111 tion of the ugly dream of an unhealthy painter devoted to
| \ | tragedy. I have spoken with French, Americans, and
I | Swedes on this subject; I have also read the utterances of
| | French thinkers, such as Jules Michelet, about it; I have
| | studied the ideas of John Stuart Mill; and I have on the
I spot listened to the grievances of poor Irish agriculturists
j 11 when complaining of their sufferings due to land in Great
I j | Britain not being bought and sold like other property, with-
i | out legal delays, impediments, and expenses. All are
|) | agreed that the evil is of a vital nature, carrying misery
j - into nearly every home ; that this inbred sin is sinking
|) | Great Britain in the scale of nations; that retribution of
| | some kind must of necessity be in the future, for the laws
| of nature cannot be broken by men or by nations without
| the results following in due course.
To turn to another social subject, a lady here remarked to
| me that the French women were much better off than the
j English women in not being cut off from the great body of
| | society while the husband was engaged during the day, and
| I was at his club in the evening. I suggested that she had
| | not gone deeply enough into the question, because if affection
111 existed, the husband would certainly not often be at his club
! during the evening. The real point usually was that a
|)| matchmaking mother had sold her daughter (probably with
I I her willing consent) for social position and material ad-
j 11 vantages, consequently the wife had no right to claim her
j | husband’s attention or affection, and she was but paying the
j 11 well-deserved penalty for her own sins, in accordance with
| I the irrevocable laws of nature—which are just and honest.
111 Spirit Drapery,—In reference to the Williams-Rita matter, the
j) | Count de Bullet informs us that the spirits at Mr. Firman’s seances
I (| often carry in drapery for the forms, but as this exhausts a portion of
11 j the power, he sometimes provides them with drapery, and thereby
K j strengthens the manifestations. If a medium told him that he (the
| (| medium) had brought drapery for the purpose, he should think nothing
11 i of it, but if he brought it surreptitiously, it would be a different matter.
Sept. 27, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
153
MESSES. WILLIAMS AND EITA AT AMSTEEDAM.
We have received the following letters:—
To the Editor ofu The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—Having seen the report in The Spiritualist of Thursday last,
entitled “ An Exposure of Imposture,” I request that you will publish
the following statement, so that I may have an opportunity of
refuting the charges made against me in that article. As you are
aware, I went to Holland on the 28th of last month, making my
seventh visit to that country. This year I was accompanied by Mr.
Eita. We gave several seances at The Hague, which received a
glowing report from Mr. Eiko. Afterwards, on going to Amsterdam,
we gave three stances at that place, the last of which was the one
where the feigned exposure of imposture was made. It is evident
from subsequent circumstances that a plan was made out whereby
the members of that seance endeavoured to lay a trap for our
destruction.
I will now give you my version of the occurrence. I may state that
I felt very unwell on entering the room, and Mr. Eita remarked that
he did also. We sat under ordinary test conditions during the first
part of the seance. We then retired behind a threefold screen, which,
placed before a couch, formed the cabinet. After we had been sitting
a few minutes, I was aroused from a semi-entranced state by a loud
outcry, and by the screen falling in upon us. Then I felt myself
roughly handled. A light was struck, and a general tumult ensued.
I was then dragged into the midst of at least a dozen apparently
infuriated men, and, as near as I could judge from their imperfect
ejaculations (one or two of them only speaking English, and
that very imperfectly), we were accused of cheating. I was
in a state of the greatest amazement, and naturally very indignant,
for it was Mr. Eita who had been engaged to give the seances.
For some reason the room door was opened, and I made my way
to the hall, followed by half-a-dozen men. I found the street
door locked, and was told I should not leave until I was searched. I
was seized by several men, one of whom searched my dress and all my
pockets; at length, putting his hand behind me, he produced what
appeared to be a roll of white stuff, apparently taken from my tail¬
coat pocket. This I was not allowed to examine. After some little
delay we left the house, two or three of the men offering to show us
the way. The next morning we proceeded to The Hague, and went to
Mr. Eiko, who advised us to return to England, which we did
accordingly.
I must admit that appearances assume a strange aspect, but that I
am innocent of the charges brought against me. I declare most
solemnly that the people at Amsterdam have misstated in a great
measure what took place on that occasion. The hand-bag they spoke
of remained at my hotel, and was interfered with, as the hotelkeeper
can prove.
I do not consider it worth my while to reply to the personal abuse of
Mr. Eiko and others, as it would cause another phase of the matter to
come to light.
In conclusion, I beg of all those who know me whether it is at all
feasible that I, who have stood the test of public mediumship, in¬
cluding stringent tests of scientific men, for the space of at least eight
years, should have occasion to play the part of a trickster. I am sure
that did I find it necessary I should retire from the immediate position
of a public medium.
Trusting that you will insert the whole of this letter, I am, sir,
yours, &c., Charles E. Williams.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Permit me to make a few remarks about Mr. Eiko’s and others’
statements concerning the affair at Amsterdam. In the first place the
ordinary manifestations at the table took place under test conditions.
Mr. Williams and I then took seats on a couch, which, with a screen in
front, formed the cabinet. After sitting for a few minutes we heard a
great noise, and felt some individuals “ on ” us, and a light being struck
we found ourselves sat upon by people evidently excited, one shouting
out, “ We got hold of the medium,” as far as we could gather from one
who spoke indifferent English.
I offered to give another sitting on the spot, which they refused.
There was no disposition on our part to run away. As to the state¬
ments about fighting, foaming, and broken furniture, we simply contra¬
dict them; the darkness, however, excuses mistakes in personal identity.
With some reluctance we, therefore, refuse the compliment about our
pugilistic gifts. Concerning things being found on our persons, I have
not the remotest idea how they came there, but believe there was a con¬
spiracy. The returning to me of two pocket handkerchiefs is a mistake,
as none were returned to me. They took my bag to be searched in the
presence (so they said) of four policemen. About the rest of this search
I know nothing, not having been present.
At Mr. Kiko’s the next day, at The Hague, Mr. Williams asked,
“ What do you think of this affair?” (alluding to roughs is incorrect),
to which Mr. Riko replied, “ I don’t know until I hear more.” Mr.
Williams asked whether we ought to go or stay, to which he
gave the advice to leave Holland at once, for what reasons I don’t
know. The priestly advice about becoming an honest workman is
superfluous. A. Eita.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Amsterdam, September 18th, 1878.
Sir,—We feel compelled to communicate to you the following facts,
for we are convinced that it is in the interest of all investigators to know
the truth, and the genuineness of those who claim to be mediums.
Messrs. A. Rita and Ch. E. Williams, both from London, who have
enjoyed till now a reputation beyond all doubt, and were renowned as
genuine and honest mediums, came to our place to give a series of
six stances on the 8th instant and following days.
The first sitting took place on the evening of Sunday, the 8 th
September, the circle consisting of eight sitters. The usual dark seance
manifestations at the table occurred, and after a pause of a quarter of an
hour, we proceeded to see the cabinet manifestations, viz., materialisa¬
tions. The so-called spirits of John King and Charlie presented them¬
selves, and showed their faces with the spirit lamps. After that the
so-called spirit Peter, at the request of one of the gentlemen, brought in
from an adjoining room an object which was laid down there for that
purpose. After the close of the sitting, the landlady, who did not join
the circle, but was busy in the room below the seance room, made the
observation that she had heard footsteps distinctly, and the creaking
noise of boots in the room from which the object had been brought, and
assured us that nobody else but one of the mediums could have
entered the above-mentioned room. These circumstances, added to the
fact that the mediums had not been bound in the cabinet, and that the
cabinet itself (which fitted in the opening of the door between the two
rooms) could be removed, raised the suspicions of some of us, who
resolved to try to detect any possible fraud at the next sitting at which
they would be present.
On the 10th September a seance took place at the house of one of the
undersigned. After the usual table manifestations, the cabinet was
made, and Messrs. Rita and Williams placed in it. Some minutes elapsed,
and all sat waiting patiently. The musical box played very loudly, and
made it impossible to hear any noise in the cabinet.
The spirit form of John King showed himself, lighted by his lamp;
then came the form of Charlie, also with his light. The gentleman next to
the cabinet, Mr. C. Ferpstra, jumped up and made a grasp at the spirit (?)
and .... seized the medium, A. Rita, by the collar of his coat. A
struggle in the dark ensued; blows were given and received; some
pieces of furniture were broken, a lady fainted, and the musical box
continued to play its merry tunes; it was a scene of indescribable
confusion. At length a light was struck, and we saw Mr. Ferpstra
rising from the ground, and the mediums (who in the struggle had
found time to hide their apparatus) sitting on the sofa with faces deadly
pale, and much disturbed. They pretended not to know at all what
was the matter, and refused to give any explanation; neither did they
accept the offer of Mr. Ferpstra to give a new sitting after being
searched. On the contrary, they tried to escape through the front
door, but were brought back into the room by some of the gentlemen.
In short, after some fruitless defence on their part, their persons and
clothes were searched (ad forcem majorurn), and the following objects
found hidden between their dresses and in their pockets.
On Mr. Rita : A reddish grey postiche beard ; a large cotton hand¬
kerchief; a ditto of muslin; a smaller ditto; a flat round bottle of
phosphoric oil (he kept two ordinary handkerchiefs for his private use
with him). In his hand-bag: A large bottle of phosphoric oil; a bottle
of scent; and a tube containing small pieces of slate pencil (for the pur¬
pose of procuring direct writing between two sealed slates).
On Mr. Williams: A very dirty worn-out (?) black postiche beard ;
about six or seven yards of very thin and worn-out, dirty, and soiled
muslin, in three pieces; and a round flat bottle of phosphoric oil. All
these objects to be seen and examined at the house of the first under¬
signed.
We only give facts, and our opinion that genuine mediums do not
carry such apparatus with them. Every sane man will conceive the
fraudulent purpose of the described objects, and no longer believe that
Mr. Williams and Mr. Rita are mediums, but come to the conclusion
that a lot of people have been already too long the victims of their
imposture.
C. Ferpstra, Amsterdam, Damrak 49.
M. KrabbE, Amsterdam, Rapenberg 31.
Justus van Maurik, Amsterdam, Damrak 49.
A. J. Daniels, Amsterdam, Droogbak 5.
C. Admiraal, Amsterdam, Plant. Badlaam 12.
T. F. Roosfinck, Amsterdam, Droogbak 5.
H. Drawer, Amsterdam, H. Houttuinen 23.
J. J. Zaalberg v. Zelst, Opticus, Amsterdam, Singel 189.
Mr. Williams having borne a good name for eight years, and com¬
monly obtained very powerful manifestations while he was held hand
and foot in strange houses, which he visited alone, the investigation of
this matter, and what should be done in relation to it, had better be
decided by the National Association of Spiritualists, as a representative
body. The writers at Amsterdam say:—“ The usual dark seance mani¬
festations at the table occurred,’’ which to the English means that they
witnessed strong manifestations while they held the medium’s hand and
foot all the time. If so, it proves that those mediums were under
some strong control outside their own bodies on the night of the eventful
siance at Amsterdam, consequently what do the writers mean by after¬
wards saying that they “ no longer believe that Mr. Williams and Mr.
Rita are mediums ?” The two statements contradict each other, yet are
both signed as accurate.
The whole matter forms a strong argument in favour of abolishing
cabinet seances, and publishing only those materialisation phenomena
which are obtained while mediums are held hand and foot.
M. Leon Favre-Clavairoz, late Consul at Trieste, has returned to
France, and will spend some time with Monsieur Pierart in his retreat
at St. Maur. M. Favre-Clavairoz is brother to M, Jules Favre, the
celebrated French jurist and statesman,
154
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sjspt. 27, 1878.
(fforrespouTience.
t Great freedom is offered, to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept bjy the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']  
WHAT IS THE GOOD OF SPIRITUALISM?
Sir,—The question has been sometimes asked, “What good has
Spiritualism done ?” The following account of some of the spiritual
manifestations which occurred in my presence at the popular summer
seaside resort of Old Orchard, State of Maine, United States of
America, may perhaps help to answer the query.
Mrs. Robert J. Hull (the well-known medium for form materialisation),
was residing with her husband at Dr. Wentworth’s cottage, which
stands amidst the unique grove of pines lining the back of the sand-hills
bounding the ocean beach at that place. The family circle also included
Dr. Wentworth (the owner of the cottage) and Mr. Walter O’Hara, an
invalid gentleman from Providence, Rhode Island, whose life had been
more than once despaired of recently. I arrived at the cottage on
Friday, the 16th of August, 1878, and remained until Monday, the
26th. It was not until after my arrival that Mrs. Hull gave any
seances for form materialisations. The day after I came to the cottage
Mr. M. F. Milliken, a distant neighbour, chanced to call on the Hull’s,
of whose interesting history I then and subsequently learned the follow¬
ing particulars. Mr. Milliken had emigrated to the State of Illinois
some twelve years ago, where he married. Engaging in an unfortunate
speculation, he lost his own property and most of his wife’s. After his
pecuniary losses he returned with his wife and five children, and settled
near Old Orchard, where he now lives. As he himself told me, his
misfortunes pressed so heavily that his spirit broke beneath the burden,
and in despair he gave himself up to drink, and more than once medi¬
tated self-destruction, from which he was only preserved by the loving
ministrations and sympathy of his devoted wife, who, from what I could
learn, was a lady of culture and of rare qualifications, including medial
gifts, which latter, however, she did not publicly exhibit, her husband
being strongly opposed to all relating to modern Spiritualism.
Last April Mrs. Milliken was taken sick and died. Finding her end
drawing near, she entreated her husband not to give way to any violent
demonstrations of grief on her departure in the presence of the chil¬
dren, as she did not wish them to associate anything gloomy or dis¬
tressful with the event. As the final crisis approached, she had her
three eldest children brought to the bed-side (several of the neighbours
being also present), and in bidding them a last farewell, she told them
not to sorrow after their mother had gone, for she would still be with
and watch over them in spirit, as she had hitherto done in her earth-
life, and that as an earnest of this, whilst “ passing away,” she would look
upon them with a “ loving smile.” Shortly after these last words the
face of the dying mother was lit up with a seraphic smile as her failing
sight rested on her children, whilst a mellow, unearthly light dispelled
the gloom of the room, and remained some moments so distinctly obvious,
that all present were struck with the beauty of the remarkable phe¬
nomenon, including the children, who were overheard by their father the
next day conversing about it.
Mr. Milliken told me that what he had witnessed in connection with the
last moments of his wife had the effect of working a complete change
in his sentiments in relation to modern Spiritualism, and that hence¬
forward the only solace he derived from human sources was from the
sympathy and comforting assurances of a few of his wife’s Spiritualistic
friends in the neighbourhood, whose society he now sought even more
sedulously than he had hitherto shunned it. From the strength he
derived from the counsels and sympathy of these friends, Mr. Milliken
said that he was enabled to resist all temptation to fly to the intoxicating
cup, or a suicide’s grave, for relief.
A few weeks after the death of his wife the bereaved husband, when
on a visit to the adjacent city of Portland, called to see a Mrs. Cole, a
trance medium, in whose presence the spirit of his wife manifested, and,
among many affectionate words and tender admonitions, she entreated
him to restrain his besetting weakness, and exert himself to take good
care of their children, assuring him that she would ever be present in
spirit to assist in his endeavours. She also told him that if he would
visit some materialising medium, she thought she might be able to
show herself to him, clothed as when in earth-life, and that, as an
assurance of her identity, she would try to give him a kiss whilst one
of her hands rested on his head and the other on his shoulder.
Most of the foregoing facts were related to me by Mr. Milliken and
others after the spiritual manifestations I am about to narrate
occurred.
After Mr. Milliken’s return from Portland, he called to see if Mrs.
Hull would permit him to attend a seance at her home. Mrs. Hull told
him she had not given any seances since her arrival at Old Orchard, but
that they were daily expecting me to arrive, when she would probably
hold a few private ones, especially for me and a few other congenial
friends. The visit of Mr. Milliken to the Hulls chanced to fall on the
day, or the day before, the first of these proposed siances. I was so
impressed with the sincerity and spiritual receptivity of the man, that I
told the Hulls I thought his presence in the circle would prove an
advantage rather than a hindrance to the manifestations, and I united
with them in extending to him an invitation to attend the first stance,
which he gratefully accepted.
Before proceeding to relate what occurred especially germain to the
caption of this article, I will say that whilst I was at Old Orchard Mrs.
Hull gave four seances, the first, second, and fourth of which were what
are called private seances, at which but a few attended, and those all
in strict mental harmony with the spirits and medium, consequently the
manifestations were very vivid and satisfactory. The attendance at the
third seance was of a more promiscuous character, and the manifestations
were not so good as at the other three, the controlling guides of the
medium appearing at times to be distressed on account (as she said) of
I some unfavourable conditions present. There were, however, some
exhibitions that were of a fair character.
I A greater or less number of my own family connections and friends
in spirit life manifested their presence at all of the four seances, the
details of which would require much space to relate. I shall, therefore,
attempt nothing in that direction, but confine myself mostly to the class
germain to the subject I have named, after adverting very slightly to a
few other incidents which occurred during the four seances.
In one instance, at the first seance, two little spirit girls, clothed in
white, presented themselves together to Mrs. Staples, whose husband
keeps the “ Old Orchard House,” the largest hotel in the place. They
came out of the curtained cabinet several times. Some present thought
they saw three children in the group. I saw but two. “Molly,” the
Indian guide, who controls the organism of the medium at the seances,
said there were three children present, one standing behind the other
two. Mrs. Staples now for the first time told us that a short time pre¬
viously, when sitting with a trance medium who was staying at the hotel,
she was told that when she next sat with a materialising medium two or
three child-spirits would come to her, all at the same time.
The spirit brother of Mr. Philip Pellerin, a Catholic gentleman, who
was present, came from behind the curtain very distinctly, and conversed
some time with him in French. Mr. Pellerin said this brother had con¬
versed in like manner with him several times previously, and that
nothing could make him doubt his identity, his form, features, and
clothing being unmistakably his.
“ Dewdrop,” a familiar cabinet spirit, came out plainly, clothed in a
picturesque Indian party-coloured costume. I asked her to de-
materialise one of her moccasins, as I had seen her do in one or more
instances at previous seances. She thereupon placed herself before us,
outside the curtain, in a light sufficiently strong for all practical purposes;
and holding up one foot with ber left hand, in full view of all present,
she commenced manipulating it with her right hand, when it gradually
faded entirely from sight, apparently in sections as each was severally
operated upon by the hand. I took the foot in my hand, and closely
inspected it, and am sure there was nothing but a stocking upon it,
which felt and looked like cotton or linen. At my request Dewdrop in
like manner proceeded to manipulate the same foot, when it became
again gradually encased in a dark-coloured moccasin, which looked and
felt to my hand as if it were made of very coarse wool.
During the first seance the spirit wife of Mr. Milliken came from
behind the curtain of the temporary cabinet several times so fully
materialised that he at once recognised her. After a time she succeeded
| in walking to where he sat in the circle, and placing her left hand on his
| right shoulder, and her right on his head, she stooped forward and
[ kissed him. It was not until after this manifestation occurred that
Mr. Milliken related what his spirit wife had told him in the presence of
the trance mediums at Portland.
By invitation Mr. Milliken attended the second seance, bringing with
him, at my request, his eldest child, a little girl of nine years. This
i was an additional attraction, and no tongue or pen can describe the
| beautiful and affecting scenes that followed the meeting of the spirit
| mother and daughter. At first the child manifested a little timidity, but
this was soon dispelled by the affectionate caresses of the mother, the
| child clasping its arms about her mother’s neck, as she pressed it to her
bosom, as fondly and as naturally as any mother of earth could have
done when meeting an idolised child supposed to be lost, but found
| again. The little girl wore a dress that had been made by its mother
but a short time before her death, and this the latter now inspected
very closely with both eyes and hands, dwelling particularly on some
parts that Mr. Milliken told us had been added since his wife’s depar¬
ture. She tenderly beguiled the child with her into the cabinet, where
she could converse more readily with her, although the company could
understand much that was said by the fond parent to her little one in
whisper, and the child’s answers whilst the spirit was outside the
curtain. When the spirit retired, Mr. Milliken remarked that he was
not more sure of his wife’s identity on their wedding day than he then
was that the spirit form just present was hers. 1 forgot to say that
before leaving the spirit wife and mother drew to her by her hands her
husband and child, and made them kneel with her in offering up
seemingly a silent prayer of thanksgiving and praise to God for the
great blessing that had been extended to them.
At the third seance I think that Mrs. Milliken again came to her
husband and child, but not in so striking a manner as at the fourth
seance, when most that had been done before was re-enacted with
increased fervour and emphasis, the fond mother clasping her child
again and again to her bosom as she pressed unnumbered kisses on her
lips, and in whispered accents breathed words of tender admonition and
love into her ear.
During the progress of these seances I saw and conversed with Mr.
Milliken a number of times. He expressed unbounded thankfulness
for having been allowed to attend them, and said that in consequence
he had been made a new man; that he had not the remotest desire to
partake of ardent spirits; and that instead of being the most unhappy
man conceivable, he now felt buoyant and joyous, and able to combat
any difficulties he might be called upon to contend with, being sure that,
with the assistance of his angel wife, he would be able to surmount
them all.
Surely here is one instance in which Spiritualism seems to have
done some good.
I was witness to some other manifestations of spirit power whilst at
Old Orchard, attending Mr. Hull’s sances.
As before stated, Mr. Walter O’Hara, who attended most of the
seances I have referred to, was very much out of health, being afflicted
with a complicated malady partaking of- dyspepsia, jaundice, and liver
complaint. At the tir.-t seance a beautiful female spirit, whom he had
never known in ear*h-life, but who claimed to be his guardian angel,
came from behind the curtain plainly. She had manifested herself to
Sept. 27, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
him at different stances several times before, and was distinguished by
a brilliant star on her breast, whence she came to be called “ Bright
Star.” I will here remark that Mr. O’Hara was an accomplished
player on the violin, and that his performances seemed to be highly and
equally appreciated by both spirits and mortals. During the first stance
“ Bright Star,’’ after going to Mr. O’Hara (who sat at one end of the
semi-circle), gave several striking manifestations, and offered him one
end of a small shred of fine lace to hold in his hand, whilst she, walking
backwards, proceeded to manufacture the like material, simply (appa¬
rently) by manipulation with her fingers, until a piece some two feet
wide, extending about twelve feet in length, was completed, which she
gathered up and took with her into the cabinet.
At the second seance “Bright Star” presented herself again, and,
after several striking demonstrations—including one wherein she multi¬
plied the stars in her breast, seemingly indefinitely, simply by passing
her hand downward over that part of her person—she walked around
and outside the circle, a distance of about twenty-four feet, to where the
lamp was placed partly behind a door. After adjusting the lamp with
her hand so as to reflect a stronger light on the wall of the room, she
placed herself in such a position that brought her face immediately
within the focus of the beams of the light, where she stood for one or two
minutes, at the same time lifting the veil from her face, so that we all
could see her features sufficiently plain for all practical purposes. She
then readjusted the position of the door, and retraced her steps to the
cabinet.
Before finally retiring “ Bright Star ” again came out of the cabinet,
her garments enveloped in a superabundance of fleecy lace, and passing
to Mr. O’Hara, commenced manipulating his head with her hands, in
connection with portions of the lace, which operation she continued
until most of the material that had enveloped her was absorbed, or had
otherwise disappeared. From several manipulations of this kind I
have witnessed before different mediums I have been led to the conclu¬
sion that spirits use the lace-like material they so often bring with them,
or manufacture in the presence of the company, as a healing or
strengthening element both for themselves and mortals.
Generally, after seances are over, “ Molly,” the Indian guide of the
medium, continues for some time to hold control over her speaking
organs, and enters freely into conversation with those present. It was
also usual for her to manifest her presence in the cottage at other times,
especially during meals, by rapping or otherwise.
On Sunday morning (the day before I left Old Orchard), “ Molly,”
after conversing with us through the raps at the breakfast table,
entranced the medium, and told us that she and (< Bright Star ” were
going to make Mr. O’Hara well. It was so common a thing for
“ Molly” to talk lightly and bandy words with us on such occasions,
that we had come to regard her observations as of but little consequence,
and no one at the table (including Mr. O’Hara) appeared to attach the
slightest significance to her assertion.
Mr. O’Hara had been unusually indisposed for the last few days, and
had kept his bed a large portion of the time. He was, however, in his
customary seat at the fourth seance^ in the evening, though not strong
enough to perform on the violin, and complaining of a severe pain in the
region of his liver, especially on the right side, besides other disquali¬
fying symptoms of indisposition.
My wife (as was usual) was the first to come out of the cabinet.
After she had retired “ Bright Star ’’ came out with an elastic step, and
proceeding to where Mr. O’Hara sat, commenced manipulating his
head and chest with her hands, especially the latter, passing her hand
diagonally from opposite the right armpit, directly over the spot where
the pain was most severe. This ministration was continued for some
twenty or more minutes, during which time Mr. O’Hara repeatedly
remarked how much he was relieved, and when the spirit left him and
retired he told us that he felt (to use his expression) five hundred per
cent, better, and that, in fact, every vestige of the pain and oppression he
had been suffering under was gone. After this “ Molly ” spoke through
the organs of the entranced medium, and told Mr. O’Hara that if he
wanted to keep well he must in future be more careful of his diet, and
smoke cigarettes only until he could conquer his craving for tobacco,
and give up altogether the smoking of cigars, to which prac¬
tice he was greatly addicted. This he promised the spirits he would
faithfully do. I have not heard from Mr. O’Hara since I left the
cottage early the next morning, and do not know whether he has suf¬
fered a relapse since or not. But he was then up and at the breakfast
table, apparently a healthy man, jubilant in spirit, and hopeful of the
future. If the relief brought about by spirit power should indeed have
proved but temporary, enough was done to show at least that Spiritualism
in his case may have done some good.
Thomas R. Hazard.
Newport, Rhode Island, United States of America,
Sept 1st, 1878.
In the physical world, cold and heat are terms used to express the
various degrees of atmospheric temperature. So in the moral world,
good and evil, constituting as they do the whole of human conduct, but
indicate the extent of individual spiritual development. The entire
necessity of their existence must be admitted.—Leander.
Horace Greeley on Spiritual Phenomena.—1 have sat with three
others around a small table, with every one of our right hands lying
plainly, palpably on the table, and heard rapid writing with a pencil on
paper which, perfectly white, we had just previously placed under the
table ; and have the next minute picked up the paper with a sensible,
straightforward message of twenty to fifty words fairly written thereon.
I do not say by whom, or by what, said message was written; yet I
am quite confident that none of the persons present, who were visible
to mortal eyes, wrote it.
I FOREIGN NOTES.
The Revue Spirite for September contains a long and
interesting article, by M. Ch. Hue, on his “ Psychological
I Experiences also a letter from a correspondent at Livourne
| (Italy), relating the cure of a case of epilepsy of long stand-
| ing, given over by the doctors as hopeless. There is a
congress of women now meeting in Paris to discuss various
I needed reforms in female education. Several of the ladies
Ji | taking part in it are Spiritualists, such as Mdme. Van Calcar,
i| I and others.
i The Revue Beige, of Liege, consists chiefly of articles on
i the position which Spiritualism should hold in relation to
the various other religious beliefs of the world. There is a
paper on two well-known authors—Jacque Cazotte and Saint-
Martin—who, it appears, were both in early life students and
illuminati of a Theosophical School at Lyons, founded by
Martinez Pasqualis. According to the Brussels Moniteur,
11 Spiritualism is gaining a strong hold in Mexico, and societies
| for the study of its philosophy are being formed there.
he Benedictin de Saint Maur gives the programme of an
| Esseno-Druidic Retreat about to be founded by M. Pierart,
who hopes to attract Spiritualists as inmates of his establish-
| ment.
| The Messager, of Liege, contains a letter from M. Jesupret,
of Douai, who is forming a Psychological Society there, and
J beginning to obtain good results.
The Devoir, a journal devoted to social reforms, gives a
( new version of the «Marseillaise ” rendered as a hymn of
! peace.
The De Rots, of Ostende, contains a number of spirit
| communications on the subject of u Re-incarnation,” and
various instances in which it has taken place for the good of
| individuals or for the guidance of society at large.
Psychic Studies.—In an article on “ The Value of Modern
| Spiritualism,” Immanuel Hermann von Fichte points out the
| | importance of the results arrived at by Professor Zollner in
} I his experiments with Slade. This is followed by a review of
! a publication by Ernst Hiickel, in which he deplores the
11 gullibility of certain German men of science who have fallen
| into Slade’s trap. The writer points out that Slade’s mani-
j festations belong to the domain of physics, and are, therefore,
j quite safe in the hands of such men as Zdllner, Weber, and
I Fechner.
11 The death is announced of Count Adolf von Poninski, a
i nobleman of Bohemian descent, but born in Prussian
| Silesia, and for many years a resident in Leipzig. Count
| Poninski was a staunch defender of the Spiritual cause.
J ( I On Tuesday evening last, Dr. Carter Blake read a paper before the
j (j Marylebone Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism on “ Experi-
| /1 mental Spiritualism.” In the course of the discussion which ensued
| (| the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses said he thought that all Spiritualists
| (| should unite in thanking Mr. Charles Blackburn for his liberality
|) | towards the cause in providing the means for carrying out scientific
j 11 research. His was not a gift to one body or society in particular, but
| j | to the movement at large, as the results worked out by the committee
i 11 to whom the apparatus was entrusted would interest the whole Spirit-
] ( | ualist public, and help to establish the reality of a certain class of
11 j phenomena in a manner that no scepticism or ridicule from the outside
I) j world could controvert. He did not mean to imply that phenomenal
| ( I Spiritualism was the most important or always the most interesting
| i part of the subject, but it was of the highest importance that all
) j published observations therein should be exact. Therefore all Spirit-
(j ualists owed a debt of gratitude to Mr. Blackburn.
) 1 Unfounded Pretensions.—Some persons claim to be mediums whose
11 pretensions find no sanction except in their own disordered imagina-
j | tions, or in some abnormal action of their self-esteem. Such persons
J j usually presume that their messages emanate from the most exalted
| (! sources, no matter how much internal evidence to the contrary others
| (| may be able to discover. We have several examples of this class
I) I before us, or present to our mind. We hardly know whether they are
| j I cases of honest delusion, or of insufferable egotism. Of this, however,
] (j we are certain, that, whether their conceptions are born of vanity or
i ? | hypocrisy, the elements necessary to their support do not exist in this
i l i quarter. We cannot be instrumental in fostering claims which have
! i j no solid foundation, either in fact or reason. We sincerely advise
|) | those who claim to be en rapport with the highest spirits in the
| < j Universe—while they are accustomed to talk and write with the most
j; I miserable dilutions of small ideas and bad English—to remember that
i f j those who humble themselves shall be exalted. Henceforth let them
I j I be content to remain among the multitude of ordinary thinkers until
| J | the intrinsic character of their thoughts shall prompt others to assign
i 1 i them another place.—Dr, 8, B, Bmtan, in ** Spiritual Telegraph.”
156
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 27, 1878.
OPENING OF THE NEW SPIRITUALISTIC HALL IN
LIVERPOOL.
In accordance with the announcement made in The Spiritualist,
the Liverpool Psychological Society, formally opened their new place of
meeting, the Perth-street Hall, on Sunday last, when Mr. J. J. Morse
delivered one trance inspirational lecture at 11 a.m., and another at
6.30 p.m. Both lectures were well received by appreciative audiences,
principally composed of Spiritualists. The new hall is a simple struc¬
ture, intended for temporary use previous to the building of a more sub¬
stantial edifice by the society. The appointments are unpretending,
intended more for use than ornament. At the east end of the hall is
the platform, which is movable, and can be enlarged for entertainment
purposes when not required for lecturing. On Sunday it was covered
with a green carpet, and had on it a small stand, upon which was placed
a handsome bouquet of flowers; green damask curtains filled up the back¬
ground. The hall is well lighted with four skylights, six windows, and two
six-light gaseliers, hanging from the roof, and two gas pendants, one on
each side of the platform. The sitting accommodation is provided for
in the shape of 200 substantial wooden chairs. To the right of the
entrance to the hall is a large, heavy cupboard, containing the society’s
library ; in front of this stands the bookstall, well provided with books,
pamphlets, and the periodicals of the movement, also with some works
on vegetarianism and anti-vaccination. The library and bookstall are,
I understand, the society’s property, and its interests are well looked
after by the society’s librarian, Mr. Scott. Everything has a fresh and
clean look, suggestive of a new departure. For the hall the society is
indebted to the single-handed energy of Mr. John Chapman, whose
name has been so long connected with the movement in Liverpool.
THE ONEIDA COMMUNITY. j
Some agitation has been occasioned among American Spiritualists in j)
consequence of some members and friends of the Oneida community \ j
having connected themselves with Spiritualism, so the following par- ! j
ticulars about the community, given by The Chicago Times, may be
of interest:— j
The little band at Oneida, with its practical communism, again comes
into public view through reports that it is about to be dissolved volun- i)
tarily. The members are free to admit that internecine dissensions have [ ]
disturbed the harmony that was wont to prevail in the community, but j |
claim that they were never so prosperous, and never more intent on j j
pursuing the line of life they have marked out. Scepticism has crept | (
into their councils, and some, comparatively few, withdrawals have (
occurred, but otherwise the community flourishes. )
The peculiar sect, founded upon interpretations of the Bible, which is j
susceptible of so many constructions by men of different minds, call j
their little community the kingdom of heaven. Following the teachings )
of the primitive church, they hold their goods in common. Marriages
are prohibited, but in a community numbering three hundred and sixty j
souls there are sixty children. Where celibacy is the rule, and no ex¬
ceptions are admitted, even to prove it, whence come the little ones ?
Marriage in f6rm only is prohibited. A system of stirpiculture prevails,
and it is designed to rear the human family on the principles which j
govern the breeding of fancy stock. Parents have been selected, not j
with a view to union for life, but for the purpose of raising a superior j j
race of men and women. The experiment has not been rigidly tried, |
for the physician of the community admits that little further has been j
attempted than “ laying a veto on combinations for parentage which were j
obviously unfit.” Statistics of results, it is claimed, are favourable to ij
the experiment. Of fifty-five children born in the community in nine I j
years five died at birth. The rest have lived entirely free from serious j |
illness, and have not been assailed by measles, whooping-cough, and j j
such other contagious diseases as are supposed to be the common lot of j
childhood. The five deaths are attributed to imperfect selections for |) |
parentage. |
The community is increasing and multiplying its worldly store. i
Commencing their peculiar life under disadvantageous circumstances, j j
the Oneidas are now proprietors and employers. They own a section of < j
land upon which they reside, and obtain large profits for horse and cattle ) \
raising and butter-making. They have a silk factory, a steel-trap !
factory, and, as any patron of a grocery store must know, can fruits and j j
vegetables extensively. The value of the property is estimated at half j
a million, and every member of the community is assured a comfortable i
livelihood. If any member, urged by the possessory principle which i
leads to personal accumulation, or by a desire to see and mix with the j
world, wishes to leave the community, he may withdraw any capital he I
brought it; if he brought nothing, he is presented his clothing and one !
hundred dollars in money. j j
All the neighbourhood objection to the community, which once was | j
rife and threatened its expulsion, has died away. It is peaceful and well !) |
disposed, offending in nothing but its method of propagating the species; [ i
and it gives considerable employment, with the reputation of being a j j j
generous taskmaster. The people of the county in which it is located j) j
no longer think of disturbing it. While they condemn one peculiarity j)!
of the system glaringly at variance with common practice and belief, j ] j
they acknowledge that its ways are the ways of gentleness, and all its ;)!
paths are peace. If it expire, the fatal blow will probably come from j |j
within; and it is questioned whether it will survive the death of John j \ \
Humphrey Noyes, the present leader, who interprets the Scriptures for i (j
the community, and, while disavowing chieftaincy, gives the little | i
community laws. j j
Me. W. J. Colville will leave Liverpool for Boston, United States, I (i
on the 10th October next. ill
The Baroness von Yay writes that she and some friends have
established a temporary hospital for twelve wounded soldiers, and that
they are fully employed in tending the sick, making bandages, and
s upplying other necessaries.
Demons Accokding to Spieitism.—According to Spiritist doctrine,
neither “ angels ” nor “ devils ” are beings apart from the rest of the
creation ; all the intelligent beings of the universe are of one and the
same nature. United to material bodies, they constitute the human
race which peoples the earth and the other inhabited worlds of the
universe ; freed from those bodies, they constitute the spirit-world, or
the spirits who people space. God has created them perfectible; He
has given them an aim, viz., the attainment of perfection and of the
happiness which is the consequence of perfection; but He has not given
them perfection; He has willed that they should owe it to their own
personal efforts, so that they might have all the merit of its acquisition.
From the first moment of their creation, they progress incessantly,
either in the state of incarnation, or in the life of the spirit-world;
arrived at the culminating point of their purification they become pure
spirits, or angels, according to the common expression; so that, from
the embryo of the intelligent being to the angel, there is an uninterrupted
chain, each link of which marks a degree in the scale of progress. It
follows, therefore, that there are spirits at every degree of moral and
intellectual advancement, according as they are at the top, the bottom,
or the middle, of the ladder ; and that, consequently, there are, among
them, spirits of every degree of knowledge and of ignorance, of good¬
ness and of badness. In the lower ranks of spirits there are some who
are still deeply imbued with the love of evil, and who take pleasure in
doing wrong ; spirits who may perfectly well be called demons, for they
are capable of all the misdeeds attributed to the latter. If Spiritism
abstains from giving them that name, it is because the world has
attached to it the idea of beings distinct from the human
race, of a nature essentially bad, doomed to evil for all eternity,
and incapable of progressing in goodness. According to the
doctrine of the Church, the demons were created good, and have
become bad through their disobedience; they are “ fallen
angelsthey were placed by God at the top of the ladder, and they
have fallen from that elevation. According to Spiritism, they are
imperfect spirits who will grow better in course of time; they are still
at the foot of the ladder, but they will reach the top sooner or later.
Those who, through their carelessness, their obstinacy, or their per¬
versity, remain longer in the lower ranks, incur the penalty of their
persistence in evil, for the habit of wrong doing renders their return to
goodness all the more difficult; but there comes a time when they grow
weary of the misery of such an existence and of the sufferings which are
its consequence; they begin to compare their own existence with that
of the good spirits, they understand that it is for their own interest to
return to the path of rectitude, and they endeavour to become better;
but this they do of their own free will, and without being constrained to
do so. They are placed under the law of progress by the fact of their
being capable of progressing, but they are not compelled to progress in spite
of themselves, God furnishes them, incessantly, with the means of pro¬
gressing ; but they are free to use, or not to use, the means thus
furnished. If progress were obligatory, there would be no merit in
progressing, and God wills that each should have the merit of his action;
He does not place any one of them in the front rank as a matter of
privilege, but that highest rank is open to all, and no one reaches it
otherwise than through his own efforts. The highest angels have won
their grade, like all others, and have travelled up to their present eleva¬
tion by the same road.—Hardee's “ Heaven and Hell," Blackwell's
translation.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Garlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances hj the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the. Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Sept. 27, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way - connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
.standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Ts. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
■ scientific, and other professional men whoJnvestigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s "Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BN ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . .76
The Teacher. ,, II. „ . ..76
The Seer. „ III. „ ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ • • • .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . .76
Arabula, or Divine Guest . ,. . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth y. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . • .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . • .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . « .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence .. . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology .... 30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D . 10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
hy Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
0
6
0
0
0
6
0
6
6
0
6
6
0
0
6
0
6
6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj Manifestation
recently produced hy Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistie throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
Wews
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. It. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter HT.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N. Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations ia England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. HaU—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Variey, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revu. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cahanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter Xll The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t<v
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters hy Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
camagelpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
. London: W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.$.
iii
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated, with Diagrams,
synopsis of contents.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
Oeneral Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr! Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writin %
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry siade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidenceoi
C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens*
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
' CONTENTS.
■ Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumshipof
: Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Trehernq)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Ralnham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Eads, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D .—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A, Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe,
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT OIROLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 fin' Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at onee irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,'
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iv
Sept. 27, 1878.
NEW ERA.
H
E
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL .MEANS.
T ORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
Upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing deseaseand premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGB, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENG’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Man, Nov. I,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ITNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
J-i “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
FTWO’S' FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
-J “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.” -
WHAU EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains ail
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in. every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is’, its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or, foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement,' and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.   
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. End.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
E
W
ORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
orless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
, dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please.—I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10,'York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “-ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by. a worihless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
 Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d. ,
Sole Agent fw Paris—PHARMACIE>DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humordus fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m.- 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal cf Photography.
“.The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy,- and indeed they are as free and easy as himself. ... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lavs,"
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of Its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Oopies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s.' 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—^Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ing—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted-Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance-Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extaais
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S >iritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Distinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.   
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—^Treatment ol Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^Oppositioh to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases-—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes)
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. "W Allen, Aye
Maria-lane, Londc fl,E,0.
