Eegistuukd a.s k Newspaper,
SX® Pjsyciio!<o({io^]<
C)li3fst Utitisppr ISOTrai toiijj S^intualism ht <^nat
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 286.—(Yol. XII.—No. 7.) LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Influence of the Sitters upon Physical Manifestations... 73
Stigmatisation. By 0. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lecturer
on Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, Westminster
Hospital School of Medicine  ... ... ...   74
Theosophy Simplified. By Emily Kislingbury  76
The Soul. By Peary Chand Mittra 77
A New Manifestation with Dr. Slade at Leipzig University.
By the Hon. A. Aksafof, Russian Imperial Councillor ... 78
A Seance with Mr. Williams   78
The Human Hive. By William H. Harrison. (Poetry.) ...79
The Triple Soul. By Gerald Massey...  79
British National Association of Spiritualists:—Reception
to Dr. J. M. Peebles—Spiritual Phenomena in India—
The Efficacy of Cursing—Exorcising Spirits—The Exer¬
cise of Occult ^Powers—The Religious Influence of
Spiritualism      81
Poetry:—Lament of the Prince of Choshin on the Death of
his Wife...:... ... ...     81
Correspondence:—Astrology Tested—Spiritualism and In¬
sanity—The Early History of Spiritualism in America—
Christianity and Spiritualism—Astrology—Mrs. Guppy's
“Plight"—Spirit Identity—Physical Seances  ... 81
British National Association of Spiritualists—Meeting of
Council ...   ...      ... ... 83
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena. By Eliza Boucher 84
.Answers to Correspondents    84
Paragraphs:—Spiritualist Meetings in East London, 73;
Prevision, 78 ; Spiritualism in Dalston, 80 ; Reception at
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 83; Miss and Mrs. Dietz's
Recitals   ’ ft   84
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
fTiHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ises in all the English-speaking iountries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. P. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;sHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. fi. G. Atkinson, E.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. RobertWyld; Mr.T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev, J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
o ury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles :(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2,'Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Biida-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,;
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE, a narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.'
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for February, 1878.
Friday, Hath.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m,
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
., „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Saturday, 16fft.—General Purposes Committee, at 8 p.m.
Wednesday, 20th—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. W.
Eglinton.
Friday, 22nd.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 25th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, At
7.45 p.m., Paper by Miss Kislingbury, on
“ Some Phases of Writing Mediumship.”
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held weekly at 38, Great Russell-
street. Inquirers may have Tickets free, on application to
the Secretary, with personal recommendations from a Member.
Admission to Members and one Friend, Is. each. Private
Seances for advanced manifestations for Members only, by
special arrangement. Admission 5s.
BRIXT0N PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
n E C I T A T I O N S
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
Every Thursday in February and March, at 8.15 p.m.
Changes will be made in each Programme.
y Tickets may be had at Mitchell’s library, 83, Old Bond- street;
Hayes’s box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall: or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of eight recitations, one guinea each. Single tickets—Stalls,
3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists' and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
Yon will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & CO
Show Rooms 18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “ HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ao., <fcc.;
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.C]
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established In February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
   Willesden, N.W. 
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
 Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London. 
BUSINESS.
A GENTLEMAN (A private medium)
Preparing to introduce at the Paris Exhibition one of the mo 3-
important inventions of the age, one which will bestow some
of the greatest blessings of God to man, requires the loan of
£500 immediately to complete the requisite machinery, models,
<fce. Liberal interest and good security can be given. Principals
only are requested to address at once, appointing personal
interview, to A. G., care of Mr. E. R. Marsh, 49, Chippenham-
road, Paddington, W.
Just published, price 5s., richly gilt,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
~ CONTENTS. - : —
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—0<le by “ Adamanta’’—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The lAfe of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs,' and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. ■ By
Caroline A. Bur it e—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna [Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci.. Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies. D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wall ace, F.R.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
 W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Works by the Countess or Caithness,
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
ASTROLOGY. “ Worth its weight in gold.’*
Every adult person living should purchase at once
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Ber&er, Newcastle-street, and J. BURNS; or
post-free of E. Oasael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis. ' ^
PIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edgos. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist New.-paper
Branch Office.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 15, 1878,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF-
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established ,1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq,, 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.Wc
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parlcfield, Didsbury,/'Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin,!, B'ernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Pitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street,Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken,'Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build-
' ings, E.U., - ~ ' ‘ '
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, K(C.
Rogers, E; Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, StanliopeTemplemari,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South .Hampstead, N. W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, TV.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcom-t Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P.,-Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney. F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Chapman, John, 10, -Dunkeld-street, Liverpool, .    I
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “ MalaDar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Nekton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, SW.
Fitton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
SW.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
. Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D./The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Speneer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds,
dsham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, SW.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W. .
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W..Stain ton, M.A., University. College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street.Regent’s-park, NW.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road;, Dalstoh, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Relmers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sir'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclifle-gardens, WeSt Brompton,
S.W.
Strawfcridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C. '
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62,’Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico; S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford- ’
square, West Brompfon, SW.
Wiseman, Mran 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, SW.
WithMl, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, SW.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, SW. ,
Auditors.
J, H. Andre, Esq* H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, GreatRussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colenel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinek-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veb, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bisehoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresoreiie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
- Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq.,4 84, Rassell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
Murray.Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J, M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes;Esq., 33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chlnnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Gelby, Esq., 9, Moritgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre,385, ChausseeSt. Pierre,Etterbeck,Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels'.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A,
Lo Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 178, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner.Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W,. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, -Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18’, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
MiSs Lizzie Doten, TTemont House, Boston.
H.'J. Newtoh, Esq.,-128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
Allied Societies.
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixtoh Psychological "Society. Hbh.'Bec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Erqehaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 28,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association 6f Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre-
• -tary, T. Biyton,iEsq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-Iane,
Dalston, London, E. ^
Gardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr.*A. J. Smart, 3, GaHd-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Viscohde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.  
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
T^TOEKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
tv Talesof the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance.. Ill, By-and-By: an historical romance, of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom.' V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trttbner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
ASTROLOGY, a Popular Sketch of
Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Book, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
“ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiel.
The TEST BOOK OF ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his hook on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
$c., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science. . .
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
. ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, fie.) &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity.. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London: J. E. Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
mHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
L UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY, j Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. E. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
, E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lahe, E.O.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7s, 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition.- This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems'of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The hook is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S ; COLBY AND RICH. London ; Spirit-
.wafcM Office.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervons diseases a specialty. ‘ 
MR. W. EGLINION
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON
   S.W.    
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer > and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O,
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.
MADAME LLANCORE,
At home from 11 till 4, for Music, Trance, Clairvoyance, and
Automatic Writing.
25, GUILFORD STREET, RUSSELL SQUARE.
‘R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. Eor terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all finds of Spiritual literature.
DLLS. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.  H 
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addressee, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.  '   . ; - 
CURATIVE MESMERISM. —PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established),.attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 tiil 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address', 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequentiy
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at th eir homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
RS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
ISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
TL. HENLY, Mesmeric Healer, 429, Oxford-
• street. At home from 1 till 3 p.m., Saturday and
Sunday excepted.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best hooks published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner, with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O. ■
"HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
tJALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binuey.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 LONDON:—SlMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO.  
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
A LADY would be happy to hear of a lady
or gentleman short-hand writer who is interested in
Spiritualism, to take down the Trance utterances of a newly-
developed Medium for publication.—Address, Marianne, 2,
Scarsdale-yillas, Kensington.
% tA tA ^ Itttb ^il}it[$ tA J)j«ijJluHfi$tlt>
Volujvie Twelve. Kumber Sevejs[.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY lath, 1878.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE SITTERS UPON PHYSICAL | j j
MANIFESTATIONS. | |
When a physical medium is perfectly happy and comfort- j !
able at a sSance, the manifestations take place with great j {j
power; when he is unhappy they are weakened or not pro- j; |
duced at all, and still more is this the case when he has a |i!
rational or irrational dislike to any member of the circle. ! j
Mrs. Jencken (Kate Fox) once told us that her antipathy |||
to any person at the seance weakened the manifestations
more than anything else, and we have repeatedly seen this
to be the case with other mediums, with the exception of the
very few who are a acclimatised V like Mrs. Fay, to obtain
them under any conditions whatever, in broad daylight, at
the Crystal Palace or elsewhere. Such strong mediums as
Mrs. Fay only appear on the English horizon for about
three months in every three years, and it is desirable that
they should visit this country more frequently.
Keturning to the average well-developed medium, his
seances go on so well when the circle is harmonious, and so
unsatisfactorily when there are jarring elements, that novices
not unnaturally sometimes state that the purity and love
of the members of the circle are the chief elements
in obtaining good manifestations, whilst the natural
wickedness of sitters other than themselves poisons the
spiritual atmosphere. There never was a greater mistake.
Good impressions on the mind of the medium are everything,
and this condition being complied with, the characters and
motives of particular sitters amount to next to nothing.
Mediums will sometimes bring to seances their most deadly,
though oily-tongued enemies, and obtain in their presence
the best of manifestations so long as the hypocritical disguise
lasts—we have seen this. Whereas, those to whom they fly
in times of difficulty and danger as their only friends, they
often take a dislike to at seances, the smooth-tongued flattery
of strangers having the advantage.
Now for a few illustrations. Two or three weeks ago,
two persons who strongly detested each other were at a
stance given by Mr. Williams, and one of them told us of
his or her idea of going away at once, to avoid weakening
the manifestations by the inharmony. This was not done.
The intense divergence in no way affected Mr. Williams per¬
sonally, and the seance was a splendid one. At a celebrated
stance of past years, a medium, won over by soft words and
the present of a few trinkets, admitted an observer whose
thoughts were in this matter opposed to his words, which the
members of the circle for the most part anticipated; but
the mind of the medium not being truly influenced, the
phenomena began with their usual power. There was once
a physical medium in London, who among his friends was
notorious for the worthless acquaintances he would make in a
few hours, and so long as he believed them to be his
friends, the phenomena were evolved freely in their presence.
The reverse of this holds good. Physical mediums will often
take an intense dislike to those truest friends to whom they
cling in times of adversity, but the phenomena are propor¬
tionately weakened. A Spiritualist—one of the truest friends
of mediums in times of danger that ever drew breath—once
at a stance at the west end of London innocently stated a
slightly suspicious fact which was before his eyes while the
manifestations were going on, but not in any way did he
express or think anything against the medium; the spirits,
as they often do, took unnecessary and altogether irrational
offence at the mere statement of an observed truth, and the
seance was spoilt at the outset. On another occasion, with
another medium, a celebrated London physician, whose time
is worth fifty pounds an hour, gave an evening to observe
psychical phenomena. The medium was efficiently tied up
in a cabinet extemporised with curtains, and not upon the
premises of the medium; the doctor sat some yards from
the cabinet, holding the long ends of the tape around the
medium, and the manifestations began at once, with great
power. Mr. Dawe and Mr. Gerald Massey were among those
present. The phenomena had no sooner begun than, in
answer to a direct question put to him, the doctor made some
perfectly harmless and natural reply; the spirits took un¬
necessary and altogether irrational offence, and nothing more
could be obtained that evening. Petulance and irrationality
of this kind usually more or less accompany strong physical
mediumship; perhaps the circumstance of the medium being
in a highly sensitive mesmeric state at the time, has some¬
thing to do with the results. When observers have any
critical remarks to make, they should utter them at the close
of a stance, and not while the manifestations are going on.
The character of the sitters, as unknown to the medium,
may possibly have some influence over trance or higher
manifestations, although even this is doubtful; nevertheless,
it is possible that the law may then change ; but it has no
perceptible effect over strong physical manifestations, the
success of which depends primarily on the power of the
medium, and secondarily upon the impression on the mind
of the medium that the sitters are his best friends. If a deadly
enemy is among them, and the medium does not suspect it,
the manifestations go on very well; but if the medium knows
it, there is a great difference in them.
The number of the sitters has an influence over the strength
of physical manifestations. Mrs. Mary Marshall’s 11 John
King” often complained when only one or two were present
jji at his voice seances; he preferred to have seven or ten to
1 I give a sufficient supply of vital energy.
! | When inquirers, by agreeable tail-lashing, work themselves
| | into a state of moral superiority, such mental manoeuvres
| i (which were once performed by us) show inexperience. They
| I are naturally overcome, and even mentally blinded, for a time,
j j by the marvellous physical phenomena into the midst of
j j which they are suddenly plunged, but it is wonderful that
I | they are so long in recognising that all their good personal
| | influence, exerted whilst all wicked persons are absent, can-
| not bring one original message through strong physical
| manifestations, which is worth the paper it is written upon
when judged upon its religious and intellectual merits. But
the marvellous physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as such,
are of the greatest value to the world. Still, those whose
minds are so overcome by them that they cannot see their
| | true ethical level, should shake off the glamour, and permit
| | their highest aspirations to cluster only around religious,
; j moral, and intellectual truths, which
(1 Messiah-like,
) I Tread down all Evil with their feet of fire.
Next Sunday Mr. W. J. Colville will deliver two inspirational
| j i addresses at Weirs-court Hall, Newcastle-on-Tyne, the one at 2.30
I \ | p.m., and the other at 6.30 p.m. Mr. Colville will probably return to
i ) i London in two months* time.
I j j Spiritualist Meetings in East London—The Sunday and other
! r| meetings in connection with Spiritualism, at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-
\{\ end, London, have been discontiuned for want of adequate support.
| u Mr. E. W. Wallis, whose address is now 1, Englefield-road, Kings-
| (j land, N., acknowledges with thanks the receipt of the following
|js j contributions towards the defrayal of the expenses:—Mr. H. West, £1;
!)! Mr. J. G-. Smith, per Mr. West, Is.; J. J., 2s. 6d.; Miss Kislingbury,
|( | 10s.; M.A., Oxon., 10s.; Mr. Jamison, 10s.; Mr. Adams, 5s.; Mr.
i S i Puttick, 9s. 6d.; Miss Keeves (seance), 10s. 6d.; Miss Ottley, per Mr.
I)| Harrison, 10s.; Mr. Downing, 2s. 6d.; Mr. Barr (Hednesford, Stafford),
j(| 5s.; Mr. Carson, 10s,; A Friend, 10s.; Mrs. Sparey, 2s. 6d.; E. <3-.,
|)| 5s.; Mr. Butcher, Is.; Mr. —, per Mr. Burns, Is.; Mr. Davis, 10s.;
|) j Mr. Whitby, 5s.; Mr. Hayes, 5s.; Mrs. Black, 5s.; J. W., 4s.; Mr.
| j McKinney, per Miss Keeves, Is.; Mr. Luxford, Is.; Mr. Simpson, 5s. ;
j); A Friend, Is.: Mr. Rix, 2s.; Mr. M., Is.; Mr. J. C., 5s.; Misses
jh Young, 5s.; Sale of Photos (given by Mr. Caney), 13s. 3d.; Dalston
i j Association, per Mr. Blyton, 5s.; Mr, Morris, Is.; Mr. Carrol, 2s. 6d~.
iH Total, £9 17s. 3d.
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1878.
STIGMATISATION.*
BT C. CARTEB BLARE, DOCT. SOI., LECTURER ON COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AND
ZOOLOGY, WESTMINSTER HOSPITAL SCHOOL OF MEDICINE.
The descriptions which have been given of the phenomena which are
presented by Louis Lateau, of Bois d’Haine, from the pens of Lefebvre,
Meyer, Curicque, and Virchow, are enough to thoroughly familiarise
physiologists with her peculiar symptoms considered from many dis¬
cordant points of view. I shall endeavour on the present occasion
to show that the real history of the case discloses a series of con¬
ditions which need not be accounted for on the theory of miracle,
and can be only partially accounted for when connected with the
other impostures of which Louise Lateau has been guilty. In this
course it is probable that my ideas will be as repugnant to those of Dr.
Lefebvre, as they would be to those of Professor Virchow, yet I give
what seems to me to be the best interpretation of the facts, with the
consciousness that it would be difficult for me to appear more absurd
than some of my predecessors on either side of the argument. The
science which we study has amongst its objects the consideration of
abnormal mental and physical action in every condition of disease; and
some of the symptoms of Louise are so remarkable that we are tempted
to investigate them at length. Professor Virchow, of Berlin, challenged
the partisans of the mystic to a series of tests, which, as may be
imagined, were not accepted. The Royal Academy of Medicine of
Belgium, on the other hand, appointed a commission to investigate the
whole matter. The report of this commission is now before us, and
certainly gives the fullest and most accurate history of the case which
has yet been published. The symptoms of haemorrhage and stigmatisa¬
tion which Louise Lateau has admittedly presented being, for the first
time, scientifically described, the whole case is apparently clear to
Dr. Warlomont. How far my hearers will agree with him they
will soon see. It is interesting to know that since the subject
was originally investigated the ecstatic has managed to scratch her
right shoulder, which since September, 1874, has bled profusely. Her
life during the five days of the week, when the bleeding manifestations
are not produced, is unbared to the critical gaze of the public. It is
now clear that there has been no careful watch kept over her to test her
statement that for the last three years and a half, with the exception of
the Blessed Sacrament, no nourishment has been taken by her. On the
contrary, much of her time passes unwatched by her sisters, and she is
allowed to go about the garden, which she cultivates without any apparent
idea that she may take the opportunity of having a slight refreshment.
Every evening, when her two sisters, Adeline and Rosine, quietly go to
sleep, it is admitted that she remains awake, sleep having been un¬
known to her since the last three years. When the hour for retiring to
rest arrives, the sisters of Louise go into their room, leaving her to
watch all the night. From evening to morning she is thus sovereign
mistress of the rest of the house, that is to say, the three other rooms,
one of which contains the larder, while the room of Louise itself contains
a cupboard full of provisions. Of course, Louise, alone in the world,
knows what takes place during these long nights, or, perhaps, she,
as what Mr. Beecher calls a self-deceptionist, does not know. She
declares that she does not eat anything, but to corroborate her state¬
ment there is nothing but her own allegations. The arguments which
rely on her statements are, therefore, without any value, as they only
repose on isolated affirmations. But there is a legal adage which says
testis unius, testis nuilus, and we can now exactly estimate the value of
this famous abstinence from food for three years. Of course, it is un¬
pleasant and impolite to disregard her declarations made under oath,
and to accuse her of perjury. < But in a question of pure science, the
matter of sentiment has no part to play. M. Warlomont, who is evi¬
dently a polite and chivalrous man, rejects the idea that Louise
should have forsworn herself. He prefers to propose a theory which
accords alike with the respect due to persons, and the dictates of
science. What does Louise do, from the moment when her sisters
retire till she meets them in the morning? M. Imbert-Gourbeire
informs us that she does not sleep. She passes the night in contem¬
plation and prayer on her knees. He asked her whether, like Mark
Twain’s horse, she “ leant up and thought ’’ about anything, but she
replied that she did not even rest her head. She does not admit that
she sleeps, but owns that she has fits of absence; alone, without light,
in the darkness of the night, her eyes directed towards the sky in a con¬
templative attitude. M. Warlomont considers that she is in a state of
somnambulism, corroborating this idea by the fact that she is com¬
pletely insensible to the impression of cold. He, therefore, considers it an
open question whether she knows herself what takes place while she is in
this secondary condition. No one observes her during the night, and
no one can dare to say that during the hours of solitude, obeying un¬
consciously the instinct of self-preservation, she does not consume the
little nourishment of which her body seems to be in want, and obey the
other calls of nature. No estimate is before us of the quantity of food,
consisting of fruits, bread, and water, which is preserved in the larder,
nor can the amount which may be assumed to be nightly subtracted be
gauged. Charity covereth a multitude of sins; and Rosine and Adeline
have the reputation of giving much broken victuals to the poor. M. j
Warlomont is thus careful to hint the hypothesis that Louise may be j
practically a dupe, and that her sisters may contrive to exaggerate her
peculiarities.
Between perjury and nervous sleep he does not hesitate an instant.
Of course, it being admitted that the abstinence of Louise Lateau,
according to the condition she describes, is physiologically impossible,
there would be only one fair way of testing exactly the amount of food ]
and dejecta she consumes or rejects. For this it is merely necessary to
institute a careful system of espionage directed to the object, ascertaining
the absence or the reality of the ingestion of alimentary matter. But
such an inquisition would be full of such difficulties as arose in the case
* A paper read last Monday evening before the British National Association of Spiritualists- '■
iU
of the Welsh fasting girl, and one should carefully consider what risk
might arise. There is no doubt that she is a very self-willed young lady,
and although M. Warlomont recommends strongly that such an investi¬
gation should take place, it may be left as an open question whether it is
worth while to kill a young girl to demonstrate the fact that all living
beings receive nutriment. He well says that the other phenomena pre¬
sented by Louise ought to be scrupulously separated from the pretended
abstinence which physiology must reject. But when we contemplate
the fact that there are to be found some excellent and honourable men, even
in England, who corroborate the statements of Louise, and give their oath
of credulity to the allegation that she makes a continual expenditure
of blood, without receiving any food, and that her organic equilibrium
does not vary, we may ponder on the logic of a learned cleric who
affirms that there can be continual subtraction without diminution of
the mass. The taunt has been thrown out by Professor Virchow and
others, that those who have control over Louise Lateau will never
permit her to be placed in any other house than her own, where the
trick has been constantly practised for the last three years. We do not
think they will. But the fact is clear that she works and expends
caloric; that she loses every Friday a certain quantity of blood by the
stigmata ; the gas which she expires contains carbonic acid; her weight
has scarcely varied since she has been observed. It is clear, therefore,
that she burns carbon, and that it is not from her own organism that she
derives it. Physiology, therefore, tells us that she must eat. M. Warlo¬
mont prays that she may be watched, but hints are thrown out that the
Bishop of Tournay wishes to throw some obstacles in the way. Science,
however, will continue to doubt whether he permits the tests or not.
But while we admit that with regard to the alleged fasting, the
evidence is not yet complete, we must congratulate M. Warlomont on
the manner in which he has tested the stigmata. In his celebrated
discourse before the Breslau Congress, M. Virchow declares that stig¬
matisation does not enter into the normal order of things, and that it is
incompatible with the ordinary observation of physiological phenomena.
In order, therefore to ascertain the sincerity of the stigmatists (the
original cause, whether mechanical or spontaneous, being excluded from
the investigation), the commission endeavoured to ascertain the fact.
Does Louise Lateau really bleed ? The problem to solve was to place
one of the stigmatised hands, before it bled, in an apparatus, which,
without altering the physiological conditions of the part, should render
the contact of any wounding instrument, or the intervention of any
manoeuvre to produce bleeding, impossible, and to keep this on from the
Thursday, when there was no idea of haemorrhage, until Friday after¬
noon. The apparatus, which, constructed to effect these tests, was com-'
posed of a globe of glass fourteen centimetres in diameter, provided at
one of its poles with a neck similar to that of an ordinary bottle, and at
the opposite pole with another neck nine centimetres across. The first
was closed by means of a cock, traversed by a glass tube, not being
larger inside than the level of the cork. The inner end of
this, as well as of the tube, was covered with perforated metal, not pre¬
venting the access of air, but also the introduction of any wounding
agent. This precaution was superfluous, as the tube being curved at an
acute angle, it was almost impossible to introduce a rod inside the
receiver. The cock and tubes were fixed by many wax seals. The
second neck was provided with a sleeve of mackintosh fixed at its external
edge by means of indiarubber dissolved in naphtha, which perfectly
stuck on, and would not have permitted the mackintosh to have been
torn without many rents. For further security this part of the sleeve
was covered with a narrow india-rubber bracelet fastened on one hand
to the globe, and on the other to the edge of the sleeve of five seals.
Provided with this apparatus, they visited Louise Lateau at 2 p.m. on
Thursday, 21st Jan., accompanied by some respectable medical and
clerical witnesses. After having ascertained with the greatest care
that the stigmata were not the seat of any haemorrhage, they chose the
right hand for the subject of their tests. They were aware that this
hand commonly bleeds less than the left, but as they were about to con¬
demn for twenty hours the whole limb to immobility, it appeared
convenient to choose the right hand, which was almost inactive by the
pains of the right shoulder, and to leave the left arm free. The right
hand was then introduced into the bowl, through its large opening,
where it was found to be entirely free, surrounded with the air, which
was constantly renewed by means of the opposite aperture. This being
done, the mackintosh sleeve was slipped on the arm, which it covered as
far as the spot where the chemise sleeve came down. It was gummed
to the arm by the adhesive substance, and then bound round with a tape
two and a half centimetres broad, turning twice round the arm suf¬
ficiently tight to prevent the passage of any instrument, and loose
enough to be comfortable ; finally, the upper edge of the india-rubber
sleeve was sewn to the sleeve of the chemise, and all these fastenings
were duly sealed. The inside of the globe appeared in this way to be
beyond the reach of any trick ; there, however, remained the external
end of the tube, by which by exhaustion a vacuity might have been
created in the globe, and the blood drawn towards the stigmatic regions.
To exclude this possibility, and to further augment, if it were possible,
the elements of absolute security, the commission covered the
whole apparatus and arm with a plate of gutta percha, like
sticking-plaster, of which the selvage at the level of the lower border of
the chemise were attached by two turns of a tape, which were again
duly sealed. We may remark that the first, as well as the second
envelopes, were of impermeable stuff, which a needle could not traverse
without leaving a trace. The whole was bound in a scarf, after which
the patient was left to her own devices, an appointment being made for
the morning of Friday, at 10.30 a.m., for the removal of the apparatus.
At the promised hour they met in the chamber of Louise. The facts
which follow are startling, and if it were not that we have ample and
respectable medical evidence to prove them, we would doubt. The
professor of clinical medicine at the University of Brussels declares that
the right hand of Louise was contained in the apparatus. This appa-
J'EBt 15, 1878.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
15
ratus was perfectly intact, as was proved by the careful examination of j H
the seals, of which not one bore the slightest trace of being broken, i (|
The surroundings of mackintosh and gutta percha did not show any j | j
prick or solution of continuity. The lowest part of the bowl was j / j
occupied by a little sea of liquid and moving blood, of which the i (j
quantity did not exceed five grammes. The dorsal surface of the hand, j ! j
which we saw first, the palm being turned towards the breast, showed, j M
from its centre to the outer (ulnar) edge, which was lowest, clots of jj j
coagulated blood, hard, strongly adherent, covering the surface of the j ) j
dorsal stigmatic wound, and stopping the flow. This accounts for the j r
relatively small quantity of liquid blood found in the apparatus. The j i
latter having been removed, the clots were examined, of which more j
than one stuck closely to the bottom of the wound, and this removal, of r!
what answered to a cicatrix, was followed by the reappearance of active ( |
and continuous slight haemorrhage. The wound which furnished it was j
about 1J centimetres long and 5 millimetres broad; the epidermis had I j
disappeared, the bottom of the wound, occupied by the true skin, ( ]
was red and fungus like; some small black clots were visible. The ! j I
whole reposed on an induration of the skin, which was perfectly j I 1
movable. i | |
At the spot corresponding with the palm of the hand, there was found I j
a larger and more rounded wound. On the external edge the cutis was i j
naked and fungus like; on the inside it was yet covered by the epidermis, j i
but this was stripped off, whitish, and in part covered by a black clot. / j
Like the dorsal wound, the palmar one rested on a slight thickening of (I
the cutis. [ ]
An eminent physiologist has suggested to me that the excessive flow } j
of blood on Fridays to the palmar and dorsal surfaces of the hand, may (I
be due to artificial compression of the subclavian vein, either with or | i
without a compress. There appears to be much probability in this sup- ]
position, which would thus render the globe experiment of Warlomont (i
reasonable and explicable. For it does not appear that the examination
of the patient conducted by him extended higher than the “ manche de )
la cAejm'se,” which would easily conceal a small compressing apparatus, j
slily introduced, not by the mother, who is now absent from her daughter, j !
but by either of the sisters, or another accomplice. j I
It, of course, might be easily suggested that even in the apparatus, j (
otherwise so complete, of M. Warlomont, the wound might have been j )
produced by the nails of the fingers forcibly turned towards the palm, j (
This supposition, which, of course, can have no bearing on the wounds j
seen on the back of the hand, is met by the fact that Louise’s nails j ?
have been intentionally cut short. j (
Dr. Warlomont concludes from this experiment that the haemorrhage ] (
appears to have arisen spontaneously, and without the intervention of j
external violence. ] (
He declares himself a partisan of the theory of Cohnheim with regard j |
to diapedesis, and combats the idea of M. Lefebvre, that the blood j }
escapes without any rupture of the vessels, and that, nevertheless, the | (
blood furnished by the stigmata contains red globules. We need not j
here refer to the mechanism of the production of blood corpuscles. It | j
is useless to select which hypothesis wTe prefer, whether that which j (
admits the destruction of the cell-walls to admit the leucocytes to pass, j j
or that which considers that processes similar to endosmosis and j)
exosmosis act in the penetration of the cell-walls. The future will j(
decide that question. It is, however, clear that the leucocytes come out j |
of the vessels; if their escape is governed by an hydrostatic or a dynamic j j
law, the globule is entirely passive; if, as Cohnheim suggests, that it I (
emerges in virtue of a particular special activity, giving a motion I j
inherent to it, it matters little. It is clear that in certain cases, either i |
by cause of the persistent dehiscence of the cellular protoplasm, or on j
account of the slight resistance of the walls, the red globules emerge j j
from the capillaries without proper rhexis of the latter, in as great ] (
abundance as the white globules, and even in the proportion in which |
they exist to each other in normal blood. j)
The conditions which produce this passage can only arise from those j (
which influence the container and the contained of, the pathological i|
dilatation of the capillaries and the serous composition of the sanguine j /
fluid. The microscopic analysis, on the one hand, and those of the stig- | (
matic wound of Louise Lateau on the other, have shown in her the j |
existence of both these alterations. I)
[Many physiological details were then given.] j (
Such, therefore, are the conditions which determine the origin of the j j
stigmatic condition, and it behoves us now to inquire what is the j)
mechanism which presides at the formation of the stigmata. Psychology j (i
alone is susceptible of affording a rational explanation, according to Dr. j) i
Warlomont, and he devotes much space, in which we shall not attempt j ? j
to follow him, in illustration of the theory, even if her fasting is a fraud, I (j
that her ecstasies, trances, and stigmata are so far genuine, that they j j j
are involuntary and unconsciously performed on her part. He urges j / ]
the fact that during the last few years there has been determined the ] (|
localisation of one vaso-motor centre, in a space comprised within the i j j
limits of a millimetre, behind the tubercula quadrigemina, and four or i
five millimetres in front of the point of the calamus scriptorius. It is in j \ i
this little centre of activity that the seat of syndroma, “ ecstasy and I) |
stigmatisation” has been placed. Both analysis and synthesis have led if j
to this conclusion. Analysis has demonstrated that all the symptoms i (j
shown by Louise during stigmatisation, the first stage of neuropathy j; j
answers exactly to the consecutive phenomena of the division of the j 11
sympathetic cervical nerve, and those of ecstasy the second term of ||
syndroma to its excitement. In stigmatisation, as in the section of ) |
the sympathetic nerve, we recognise the more or less pronounced con- i (j
traction of the pupil, the closing of the eyelids, the increase of tempera- i (j
ture and sensibility, reflection, and dilation of the blood vessels. In j/j
ecstasy, as also when the nerve is galvanised, the dilatation of the pupil 1(1
is observed, as well as the opening of the eyelids, the lowering of sen- I > I
sibility and temperature, contraction of the blood vessels and loss of | /1
reflection. ' *‘1
This abolition of sensibility and thought during ecstasy has been
traced to the vaso-motor centre, which we have mentioned. We all
know that if the medulla is cut behind the tubercula quadrigemina,
four or five millimetres in front of the point of the calamus, the posterior
limit of the vaso-raotor centre, the excitation of the sensory nerves is
not capable to produce any vaso-motor reflex action. This being so, it
may be inferred that, if the abolition of • sensibility and reflectivity
exists, and this existence is proved, both in ecstacy and in the separa¬
tion of the bulbous centre from the rest of the organism, an equal
agreement will result from the excitement of the same centre. The
•vaso-motor apparatus is, in fact, composed of the ganglionic chain of
the great sympathetic nerve, and of ganglia disseminated along the
course of the vessels on one side, and of the grey matter of the medulla
on the other. It is the bulbar centre which commands the vaso-motor
action; from it all radiates, and to it all converges. Its direct or reflex
excitement may occasion paralysis, which produces the same effects as
division of the fundamental chord. Physiological experiment thus
accords with the conditions produced by pathological syndroma.
Dr. Warlomont at length discusses the extent to which scratching
plays a part in the production of the stigmata. Whether voluntary
or instinctive, the artificial excitement of the sores has aided powerfully
in their formation. The reason of this is found in the action of the
vaso-dilator nerves, which rubbing has enlarged by a reflex method.
Continual scratching of the stigmatic localities has produced an access
of strength to the vaso-motor paralysis. This association of diseases
has always produced surprise. There is, nevertheless, a psychological
law of contiguity, or association, which accounts exactly for the succes¬
sion of the two terms, ecstasy and stigmatisation. When paralysis of
the vaso-motor centre commences, i ecstasy is always likely, for the
reason that, when the mind is attracted to the succession of the two
stages, the first has already become a permanent idea, and attention is
fixed on the second.
As for the regularity and periodicity of the attacks, it is explained by
the law of similarity, by which like produces like. The absorbing
power of the fixity of the idea, and the persistence of pain in the hands,
exclude in Louise Lateau all tendency to diversion of thought, and it
would be surprising if the greatest attacks should take place at a
different date to that of the Friday, which is associated in her mind
with such events. Ecstasy and stigmatisation are, therefore, neuroses,
to which the name of “stigmatic neuropathy” has been given. As
Brown Sequard says, “ To say that an explanation is good, because it is
the only one we know,” is an argument which is rarely of value in
scientific matters; but when the explanation is probable and intelligible,
the absence of any other intelligible explanation should be noted.
Professor Virchow’s suggestion that Louise was entirely an impostor is
not proven, and the experiment on the hands is sufficient to ensure its
rejection. The fraud by which it is clear that she does not fast, when
she pretends to fast, is sufficient to show that we have to deal with a
girl who, consciously or unconsciously, is so far like some physical
mediums, that she does not habitually speak the truth. Dr. Warlomont
seems to hold the balance very carefully between the two hostile camps,
and I am thankful that, for the first time since the controversy com¬
menced, a trustworthy account of this girl has been given us. I feel
certain we have not yet heard the last of her, and that some further
attention will be directed to the subject.
I carefully abstain from comparing this case of Louise Lateau with
the numerous other cases of stigmatisation which have been recorded
in past history. The chief one of these, which will most readily occur
to our minds, is that of St. Francis of Assisi. The symptoms, however,
shown in this case were wholly different to those of Louise. We
fortunately possess a precise account of these symptoms from the pen
of one who was, perhaps more than any other, intimate with St.
Francis, and his biography, given by St. Bonadventure, tells us what
these symptoms were.
The words of St. Bonadventure are—
“ Statim namque in manibus et pedibus ejus apparere cceperUnb
signa clavorum; ipsorum capitibus in inferiori parte manuum, et
superiori pedum apparentibus, et eorum acuminibus existentibus
ex adverse. Dextrum quoque latus quasi lancea transfixum rubra
cicatrice obductum erat; quod ssepe sanguinem sacrum effundens
tunicam et femoralia respergebat.’ ’—Legenda Sancti Francisci,
cap. 13.
Such conditions, in which apparently an induration of integument
existed within a limited area, bear no resemblance to the stigmata of
Louise, and it is nowhere stated that blood, in the case of St. Francis,
flowed from the wounds in the hands and feet.
The bearings of the whole subject of stigmatisation on spiritual
science will, of course, be keenly criticised. On the theory that the
case of Louise Lateau is not an impostor (and whether or not she be
one, she undoubtedly bleeds at periodical times, apparently inde¬
pendently from her own volition), she shows a very peculiar and
abnormal physical condition.
The theory that “ will power ” may produce a special secretion of
blood, at particular times, will naturally commend itself to those
masters in psychological science, the occultists, to whom on this, as on
other subjects, we look for information and instruction. It would not
be fitting for a mere physiologist like myself to offer an opinion, or to
hazard a theory. If, however, a number of cases like that of Louise
Lateau should be carefully investigated, and, if it was possible to
divest the subject from the prepossessions and bitterness which have
surrounded it, I venture to think that psychological science would be
advanced.
In conclusion, I have only to say that I have (whatever my private,
feelings may be) endeavoured to avoid any expression of opinion on the
theological bearings of the subject, and that I hope that, with us, at
least, the matter may be discussed merely on the grounds of the
scientific aspect of the question,
76
THE SPIRITUALIST*
PeB. 15, 1878.
THEOSOPHY SIMPLIFIED.* jj
BY EMILY KISLINGBURY; ijl
When, in response to an invitation from this society, I !
undertook to open a debate on the views of the Theosophists, |
there were no signs of the agitation which has since |
taken place, and which has been somewhat wide-spread, as I |
judge from my private Correspondence, and as evinced by the |
epistolary discussion in The Spiritualist newspaper during j
the past four or five weeks. Had we known what was im- !
pending, it is probable that you, as well as I, might have !
preferred to choose some other topic for discussion this j
evening. So much has been said about this one, that there j
seems little left to say. And yet it is likely that some friends j
not immediately concerned in the controversy, may have had j
their interest aroused, and may be asking, “ What is all this j
about? We thought Spiritualists were all agreed as to the |
main points of Spiritualism ? What is the good of disturbing j
us in our belief? Are we tending to a schism ? What is to |
be the end of it all ? What is Theosophy ?” j
The answer to the latter question will, perhaps, if I succeed j
in giving it with anything like clearness and precision, i
enable you to answer all the other questions for yourselves, j
and I hope and believe to your full satisfaction. j
It was agreed that we should take Col. Olcott’s letter to
The Spiritualist^ of December 7th, as the basis of our dis¬
cussion, but let us first go back to the formation of the
Theosophical Society, and I think we shall trace in its origin
and in the necessity from which it sprang, a more complete
comprehension of the meaning of Theosophy, than we could
gain from etymology, or from the fullest explanation in any jj
dictionary with which I am acquainted. I j
About three years and a half ago, when the astounding j j
manifestations with the Eddy brothers, in Vermont, were at j j
their height, when the Holmeses, in Philadelphia, were j j
giving evidence that the most powerful mediumship does not j j
exclude the admixture of fraud in its presentations, and j j
while the whole subject of Spiritualism seemed to increase j j
in perplexity the more its manifestations were multiplied, j
thoughtful persons began to look around for some other ex- j
planation than the one which had hitherto satisfied them, j j
viz., that the spirits of our departed friends come to com- | |
mune with and to solace us, and that other spirits are j j
enabled to approach us for beneficent purposes, to heal, j
strengthen, or direct us, and to teach us the lesson of the |
soul’s immortality. In the face of the disastrous conse- j
quences of mediumship, in many cases, to the mediums I
themselves, of the dangers often pursuant on those who j
entered on the investigation from the purest motives and in ! j
a religious spirit, and of the low order of influences which I j
sometimes gained admission to, if not absolute control of, j |
circles formed for the purpose of communion with those of j j
higher degree, some further explanation was needed than j j
that given in pamphlets on the “ laws of mediumship,” or on j j
“ benefits of spirit intercourse,” and such like effusions. j (j
At this juncture there appeared on the scene of American j j
Spiritualism, a lady who had had rare opportunities for more j i
than thirty years, of studying among the more spiritualised j |
peoples of the East the phenomena which were comparatively ! j
new to the materialistic nations of the West. Madame Blavat- j j
sky hadlearned, not as a mere traveller, but as a dweller among j j
the Hindoos, as a Buddhist among Buddhists, as an initiate j j
into their mysteries, the philosophy of Spiritualism, as re- I j
ceived in the temples of Egypt, the pagodas of India, and the j j
Lamaseries of Thibet, where it has been stored up and handed j j
down for hundreds, aye thousands, of generations. Her advent j j
in America was hailed by some who had already perceived j j
the continuity of spiritual manifestations through all ages, j j
which, though differing in their outward form, according to j I
the time and place of their appearance, are all referable to j j
the same eternal laws, and are all more or less similar in | j
their action, relatively to man and his physical and spiritual j i
nature. As the exponent of the philosophy of the ancients, j j
Madame Blavatsky incited Col. Olcott and other inquirers to j I
group themselves together for the purpose of seeking to j j
penetrate behind the phenomena, of the reality of which $
they had now abundant external proof, and to grasp, if j j
possible, the grand underlying laws which they (the ancients) i j
had long ago discovered in regard to them. Of course, this | |
kind of study is not suitable for all minds, at any and every
■ stage of development; nevertheless, the society which thus
began to be formed exacted nothing further from its fellows
of either sex than || assiduity of purpose, catholicity of
mind, an unselfish devotion, an unflinching courage and
perseverance, and a purity of life and thought commensurate
with the nature of their self-imposed task.” These qualifi¬
cations are nothing more than every Spiritualist should
bring to his work, yet from the fact that all persons are free
to inquire, and to pursue the subject of Spiritualism, there
is no means of securing a strict rule of life and conduct,
except by segregation on this particular basis.
Madame Blavatsky’s book, Isis Unveiled) reveals suffi¬
ciently the sources from which the views of the Theosophists
are derived. Pythagoras, Plato, Plotinus, lamblichus,
Apollonius of Tyana, the Ebionites, the dwellers on Mount
Carmel, the Essenes, the Gnostics, all possessed the “ secret
doctrine,” which is needed to throw light on the dark prob¬
lems of spiritual existence and spiritual manifestation, and
not only on these, but also on the wonders of physical
science; and it is for lack of this knowledge that the
doctrines of materialism are now having their “ little day,”
and which must inevitably u cease to be” when the action of
spiritual forces behind phenomena is fully established.
Those who possessed this knowledge in its fulness erected it
into a science which was called magic. Quoting from the
manuscript commentary of Proclus, Madame Blavatsky
says : “ The ancient priests, when they considered that there
is a certain alliance and sympathy in natural things to each
other, and of things manifest to occult powers, and dis¬
covered that all things subsist in all, fabricated a sacred
science from this mutual sympathy and similarity. Thus
they recognised things supreme in such as are subordinate,
and the subordinate in the supreme; in the celestial regions
terrene properties subsisting in a causal and celestial
manner; and in earth celestial properties, but according to
a terrene condition” {Isis Unveiled) Yol I., p. 243). By
means of the key, which the students of magic knew how
to use, they discovered individualised spirit behind all
phenomena, and thus arose the belief (which to them was
knowledge) in the elemental beings, whose resuscitation by
the occultists has caused such terrible consternation among
Spiritualists, who are only acquainted with the phenomena
of presentations like unto themselves. u Du gleichst dem,
Geist) den du begreifst“you perceive only that of which
you can conceive,” is a translation literally reversed, but it
is apposite in this connection.
When the Occultists, as the members of the Theosophical
Society began to be called, found that the theories of the
ancients were confirmed and verified by the modern masters
in mesmerism and magic, Eliphas Levi, Dupotet, and others,
they began to apply their explanations to certain of the
Spiritualistic phenomena, and found that they could solve
many difficulties which had hitherto remained insurmountable.
They discovered, by experiment, that the power of the human
will was capable of cultivation to an unlimited extent, and
that it was possible to perform by its means many things
hitherto supposed attributable to departed spirits alone.
They did not say that the spirits of departed human beings
did not perform them, but that they did not necessarilg per¬
form them. And in this distinction lies one of the points
now at issue between what has been called “ Dr. Wyld’s
theory” and orthodox Spiritualist doctrine, and which has
arisen solely from a misunderstanding. What the Theoso¬
phists say is this : “ Since we find that we can, by practising
our own will produce many things performed at spirit-circles,
why should we call in the spirits of the departed for this
kind of work ? Is it not degrading, both to them and to us,
thus to employ time and powers ? Let us seek for something
better, let us rise to the control of these forces, and seek
inspiration in a higher source, since we have seen mischief
result to those who prostrate themselves beneath the sway of
beings of less power and intelligence than they themselves
possess.” This is no more than every Spiritualist says to
himself after continued experience of elementary physical
manifestations, but he often fails to recognise that the same
power is inherent in himself, and might become an agent of
great usefulness if he could learn how to direct it. For the
use of will-power implies perfect self-control in him who
* A paper read before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
Feb. 15,. 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
wields it, and the man who has achieved this is above the I I
majority of his fellows, and has learned, one of the greatest | |
lessons of life. ’ V ' -M i
Then it has been further mis-stated that the Theosophists | j
do not believe in the return of their departed friends, nor in | j j
the action of high-class spirits. Let us look into Isis 111
Unveiled, At page 67, Yol. L, we find :— , ! j j
We are far from believing that all the spirits that communicate at I (j
circles are of the classes called “ elemental ” and “ elementary.” Many, | ) |
especially among those who control the medium subjectively to speak, \)\
write, and otherwise act in various ways, are human, disembodied j j j
spirits. Whether the majority of such spirits are good or bad, largely j ) j
depends on the private morality of the medium, much on the circle j ) j
present, and a great deal on the intensity and object of their purpose. | j
If this object is merely to gratify curiosity and to pass the time, it is mm
useless to expect anything serious. . . . One of the most powerful j 11
attractions of our departed ones is their strong affection for those whom j (•!
they have left on earth. It draws them irresistibly, by degrees, into j ) j
the current of the astral light vibrating between the person sympathetic j j j
to them and the universal soul, (See alsoVol. II. p. 593, “The greatest | j j
philosophers,” et seq. Also, Col. Olcott’s letter, “about other medium- j j
ship than physical,” sey.) Ill
Col. Olcott speaks of discouraging medium ship, “except | jj|
under the most favourable conditions,” and Madame j j
Blavatsky has been accused of disparaging mediums. Let j I
us again turn to Isis Unveiled, After discussing a parallel j !
drawn by. a writer in The Spiritualist, between modern [ j
mediums and the workers of so-called miracles in ancient j v]
times, we find (Yol. I., p. 486) :— ! I
Were these God-like men “ mediums,” as the orthodox Spiritualist will i |
have it? By no means, if by the term we understand those “ sick-sensi- j ) I
tives” who are born with a peculiar organisation, and who, in proportion j | j
as their powers are developed become more and more subject to the irre- | j
sistible influence of miscellaneous spirits, purely human, elementary, or I j
elemental. Unquestionably so, if we consider every individual a j j j
medium in whose mesmeric atmosphere the denizens of higher invisible [ j !
spheres can move, and act, and live. In such sense e^ery person is a j) j
medium Mediumship is measured by the quality of the aura | j |
with which the individual is surrounded. This may be dense, cloudy, j j j
noisome, mephitic, nauseating to the pure spirit, and attract only those I j I
foul beings who delight in it, as the eel does in turbid waters; or it may j j j
be pure, crystalline, limpid, opalescent as the morning dew. All depends j j j
upon the moral character of the medium. About such men as Apol- ]) j
lonius, lamblichus, Plotinus, and Porphyry, there gathered this j i
heavenly nimbus. It was evolved by the power of their own souls in f ||
close union with their spirits ; by the superhuman morality and sanctity j) j
of their lives, and aided by frequent interior ecstatic contemplation, j ( j
Such holy men pure spiritual influences could approach. Radiating j ) j
around an atmosphere of pure beneficence, they caused evil spirits to L If
flee before them. This is mediatorship, not mediumship. Such persons ! \ \
are temples in which dwells the spirit of the living God. j j!
In speaking words of warning against the inflaences that j I
frequently control physical mediums, Madame Blavatsky j I
has said no more than Andrew Jackson Davis, the great j j
American Seer, in his book on The Viakka, and Mr. Epes j j
Sargent in his Proof Palpable. (See Isis Unveiled, Yol. I., j j
pp. 218-220.) | |
Returning to Madame Blavatsky’s advocacy of the study | j
of magic and ancient philosophy as the cure for many of the | |
evils now surrounding mediums and mediumship, we find j |
the principles of magic summed up in the last chapter of j
Isis Unveiled, which I would recommend to the careful study |
of all readers of that book. Herein are comprised the sub- j
jects which engage the attention of the Theosophist. He is j
but a student; like St. Paul of old, he counts not himself j
to have apprehended; but he stretches forward towards the I
mark of the prize of his high calling, and he hopes in the j
end to win. j
If any among you can see in this aim that which should j
excite the anger of the orthodox Spiritualist, or make him j
desire a separation instead of a closer union between them, j j
then I think such a one must see with the eye of prejudice, j
or through the spectacles of prepossession. j
True it is, that some of the doctrines set forth in Col. Olcott’s j
letter, are such as we may not be prepared to receive, but ‘ 1
they are, in the first place mostly expository of matters which j
it does not concern us to decide upon, and which most of us !
can, therefore, leave aside altogether; and, secondly, they are i
given as Madame Blavatsky says repeatedly, not as the con- j
elusions of the Theosophical Society, or of any one or all of I
its members, but simply as the teachings of ancient philo- |
sophers and theurgists, based upon their experience. We |
may take it for what it is worth, and prove or disprove it |
for ourselves. t
THE SOUL.
BY PEARY CHAND MITTRA.
Professor Tyndall says, “ For every act of consciousness,
whether in the domain of sense, of thought, or of emotion,
a certain molecular condition is set up in the brain.” The
condition shows the bondage of the soul, as it is made
phenomenal by the brain. The region between the soul and
brain may be called the “ asses’ bridge,” as it has been a
stumbling-block to many philosophers, who in attempting
to show light on the mind, trace all our knowledge to
cerebration, and have gone the length of denying a priori or
innate ideas. Others have gone beyond the brain or mind-
region, and found in the head by intense meditation the real
life, distinct from the brain, immaterial, unimpressional, and
tranquil. It is not every one who distinguishes easily what
is immaterial from what is material; our whole life here is
material; the breath we breathe, the thoughts we think, and
the feelings we feel, are all from- the brain. Though the,
mind or the brain may be elevated, yet being limited and
intended for the world of sense, it is more or less sensuous,
and does not enable us to take a spiritual view of the soul of
souls and of His spiritual kingdom. The Mundaka Upanishad
says, “ The soul cannot be gained by knowledge (of the veda),
not by understanding it, not by manifold science. It can be
obtained by the soul by which it is desired. His soul
revealeth its own truth.”
In the Srimutt Bhaqabat (Book Y.), the distinction between
the mind and the soul is as follows—The mind is awake,
dreams, or sleeps. The soul is a witness, having only one
state of its own. The Mundaka Upanishad describes four
states of the soul: 1. Waking state, seeing gross objects^
2. Dream knowledge, seeing subtler objects; 3. No desire,
no dream, but profound sleep ending in knowledge of God ;
4. Spiritual state, tranquil, blissful, and without duality.
According to Sanedra, “ the highest place, the highest state
of the soul, is when it exists as the soul in its own inherent
nature.” In the spiritual state we realise the subtle body or
lingua serira. St. Paul agrees with the Ary as in our having
a subtle or spiritual body, and the Bible also says “ the
Kingdom of God is within you.” Fichte says it is the ego
which creates non ego, and Scheiling makes the subject and
object identical. This is a pedantic idea. Its meaning
evidently is that when we are in a spiritual state, the mind,
the organ of the senses, is absorbed in the soul, and what is
external, or comes to us through the brain, ceases to be so
received, and thus the identity between the subject and
object is established. The powers of the soul are manifested
in dreams, somnambulism, and clairvoyance. Somnambulism
and clairvoyance may be divided into different classes, viz. :
Thought-reading, second-sight, prediction or prevision, intro-
vision, &c., &c., &c. (see Dr. Gregory’s Animal Magnetism,
and Iaqq on. Animal Magnetism). Abercrombie (Intellectual
Powers) gives several instances of what is done in dreams;
we also know that in dreams Cabanis saw clearly the bearings
of political events, Condirect the results of complicated
calculations, Condillac developed subjects, and in a waking
state Carnotte minutely foretold the French Revolution.
Forbes’ Oriental Memories, Colonel Ducrow Taylor’s life, and
Wilby’s Predictions Realised,show that in some persons
the faculty of prevision has been developed. Miss Cobbe
attributes all revelations of secrets and predictions in dreams
to “ unconscious cerebration ” {Macmillan's Magazine, Vol.
XXIII.) The ignoring of the soul power, and substituting
“ unconscious cerebration ” is a mistake. Cerebration is
purely matter, and derives all that it manifests in the
department of thought from the soul.
The Vrihat Arayana says, “ The soul is the intelligent
internal light.” The Chhandazza—“The living soul, rising
from the corporeal attains the supreme light, and comes forth
with his identical form, it is neither the light of the sun, nor
the visual organ, but Brahma that is here meant.” The soul
devoted to the contemplation of God, fits itself for the “ un¬
dying region, where perpetual light and glory abide,” and
which is “ the pure eternal light,” where none proceed,
“ who are devoted to objects of sense.”
Calcutta, January 17th, 1878.
Hr. Slade was unwell on his first arrival in St. Petersburg, but is
slowly recovering.
78
THE SPIRITUALIST.
FjIb. 15, 1878.
A NEW MANIFESTATION WITH DR. SLADE AT LEIPZIG
UNIVERSITY.
BT THE HON. X. AKSAKOF, BUS SI AN IMPERIAL COUNCILLOR.
The scientific investigation of the phenomena produced in
the presence of Dr. Slade, which was undertaken by several
professors of the Leipzig University in the months of
November and December last, has been attended with the
best results; indeed, I may say with results as splendid as
they were unexpected.
These results are further confirmed by the publication of
the book of the Professor of Astronomy at the University
of Leipzig, Mr. Zollner, Wissenschqftlicke Abkandlungen
(Scientific Treatises), Leipzig, 1878, Yol. I., of which I
have just received a copy.
In the first part of this volume, printed last August, Mr.
Zollner shows that, in the course of speculations on the
fourth dimension of space, he came to the conclusion of the
possibility of certain medial phenomena, viz., that beings
existent in the fourth dimension of space (Vierdimmensionale
Weseri) could produce knots on a continuous thread by a
simple process of manipulation of matter—a process im¬
possible and incomprehensible to us. (Three dimensional
beings.)
At a seance with Slade on the 17th December, experience
confirmed the reality of the fact, the possibility of which
had been admitted d ‘priori. On a string,
the two ends of which were sealed and
held by Mr. Zollner, while the remain¬
ing portion rested on his knees, four
knots appeared in the space of a few
minutes.
This phenomenon belongs, as you will
see, to the category of what we know as
the passage of matter through matter.
We have here the first attempt at a
scientific hypothesis in explanation of
medial phenomena; and more than that,
a hypothesis which renders necessary the
acceptance of the cardinal dogma of
Spiritualism. The record of numerous other experiments
will, I hope, appear in Mr. Zollner’s second volume, which
is in the press.
Thus Slade, who was attacked in the name of science, re¬
ceives his justification in the most striking manner at the
hands of science. These exceptional considerations have
induced me to continue my Grerman journal {Psychic
Studies), at all events for a time.
St. Petersburg, February 8th, 1878.
Is it too late to obtain and to add to the Library of tbe British
National Association of Spiritualists, the first periodicals devoted to
Spiritualism in America, as set forth in a letter from Mr. La Roy
Sunderland, in another column ?
Prevision.—A gentleman known to Mr. Martheze and ourselves,
writes to Mr. Fletcher :—“ Having read in The Spiritualist of January
25th, Mr. Russel Wallace’s letter, in which he speaks of the very satis¬
factory nature of spiritual communications received through your
mediumship, I desire to convey to you, from my own experience, the
fullest confirmation of his experience, as applied to my own case. For
the past twenty-five years I have been in communication with mediums
and clairvoyants, and have consulted many of them; but, till I had the
good fortune to call upon you - in the August of last year, I had never
obtained information or advice of a nature to fully satisfy me that I was
indeed in communication with friends in the spirit-world, who knew
all my circumstances in the past and present, and who were able to indi¬
cate what must and would be my line of action in the future. You may
remember that when I first visited you I was in a very desponding con¬
dition, owing to the state of my affairs, and despairing of success in any
direction. You then gave me hope and comfort, assuring me of better
fortune which would come to me in the shape of an appointment in
the month of January of this year. You even indicated the nature of
the appointment. In that interview you described so accurately the
characters of those with whom I had been and was then associated (and
of whom I have every reason to believe you had no personal knowledge),
that it was very remarkable. Your predictions have been fulfilled
in the most remarkable manner, and to the fullest extent, at the very
time which you indicated. Not only so, but the characters of the persons
with whom I have been brought in contact since coming to this country
(Ireland), and which you so accurately described in my last interview
with you on the 16th of January, I find to be, in every particular,
exactly as you told me. As I had not then seen them, and had formed
very different ideas respecting them, I mention this to prove that it was
a case of ‘clairvoyance,’ and not of I thought-reading,’ ”
I A SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS.
Last Saturday, evening, at the usual weekly seance 11 for
| Spiritualists only,” given by Mr. 0. E. Williams, professional
| medium, at his rooms, 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, London,
| ten or twelve sitters were present, including the Rev. W. W.
| Newbould, M.A., and Herr Christian Reimers. Two or three
I inquirers, who had never attended a seance before, were
| present by introduction.
The doors were locked. Those present sat in the dark
with interlinked hands (the hands of the medium included)
round a table, and after the lapse of about ten minutes the
usual manifestations began; that is to say, playing musical
instruments, including a musical box weighing many pounds,
floated about the room, now and then pausing in their flight
| to rest gently for a moment on the top of the head of each
| sitter in turn. If a disbeliever tried to perform this
| commonest of manifestations with a musical box in the dark,
! he would probably soon find himself holding a prominent
| place at an inquest over one of the sitters. Spirit lights
| were occasionally shown, and placed upon one or other of the
I flying instruments, that its motions might be observed.
Four times a light flashed up, revealing the living
| materialised form of the (spirit calling himself Peter, robed
| in white, floating over the table. He was visible to the
| waist, but was too quick in his motions, and the light was
| too evanescent, for his features to be critically observed;
| they were, however, living features. He appeared three of
I the four times over the opposite side of the table to that at
j which Mr. Williams was held, and his head was from three
to four feet above the surface of the table. His bust was
partially inclined in the direction of the medium, and the
illumination did not extend to where his drapery ended.
One of the sitters was asked to stand on the top of the
table, and his hands were grasped near the Ceiling by living
materialised hands, while the hands of Mr. Williams were
held below.
“Peter” reminded the sitters that such manifestations often
took place off the premises of the medium. A seance of a
similar kind took place with Mr. Williams a few weeks ago,
at the house of Miss Ottley, 41, Denbigh-street, Belgravia,
and was reported in The Spiritualist.
At the second part of the seance of last Saturday, Mr.
Williams entered a cabinet which, with the room, had been
searched by a disbeliever, and Mr. Williams asked to be tied
therein. The sitters said that they did not wish to do so,
but would take what they could get. Outside the cabinet the
sitters sat in the dark round the room with their hands
linked, and in their centre was a table. There were two
rooms separated by folding doors, and the cabinet was at the
extreme end of one of these rooms; the circle in front of
the cabinet extended to the folding doors between the two
rooms, and the folding doors were wide open.
A phosphorescent kind of light flashed up within the
cabinet, from which emerged “ John King,” robed in white.
At different parts of the room, and vertically over the heads
of some of the sitters he floated steadily up to the ceiling,
and his head could be seen touching it; he then two or
three times, at request, struck the ceiling with the hard
luminous substance he held in his hands; his face could be
seen distinctly now and then, and the features were living.
Sometimes he came as far from the cabinet as the folding
doors at the other end of the room. The light only made
the upper portion of his form visible, but from the way in
which he moved over the heads of the sitters, he appeared
to be materialised only to the waist.
Two other spirits, who were not seen at this part of the
seance, were busy at all parts of the room, talking, touching
the sitters, moving musical instruments, and one of them
by request searched the cabinet for a piece of wood which a
gentleman had put there, and gave it to him at the other
end of the room. Once one of these spirits (Peter) stood
by the cabinet, and the other (who calls himselt’ Irresistible,
perhaps from the beauty of his voice) stood at the other end
of the room, and by request they then not only spoke loudly
at the same time, but, while speaking, the one struck the
cabinet door and the other the folding doors at the opposite
end of the room, till they rang with the vibrations. This
was good evidence to the circle, that these voices, which
79
■Feb. 15, 1876.
th£ spiritualise.
follow Mr. Williams everywhere, were not produced by
ventriloquism.
An objection to Mr. Williams’s seances often made by
Spiritualists is that they are all held in total darkness.
The greater introduction of late of lights of their own by
the manifesting powers is a great improvement, and if they
work still further in this direction it will be advantageous
to their medium.
When the face of John King is clearly seen, it bears a
resemblance in the lines of the eyes and nose to that of the
medium. Peter’s bears a general resemblance, but we have
never seen it clearly enough to criticise particular features.
Mr. Williams talks to these two forms, they talk to him and
to each other, and they move about at varying distances
from each other. As it is scarcely conceivable that a
medium can consciously or unconsciously split his spirit into
tfiree, and clothe each with matter, we think it most likely
that spirits divorced from material conditions take upon
themselves those conditions from his organism, and manifest
under the limitations which that organism imposes.
THE HUMAN HIVE.
BT •WILLIAM H. HABEISON.
Prom the mountain’s brow
In the dark cold night,
I view the town
With its spots of light;
And the furnace flames
In the vale below,
Roar up to heaven
With their fiercest glow:
As men toil on
At the nod of wealth,
Selling their souls,
Their peace, their health,
The Dead Sea fruit,
Striving to clasp—
Fair to the sight,
Ashes to grasp.
Fitfully, mournfully,
On they go,
Sowing the whirlwind,
And reaping woe.
Recking nothing
But earthly lust,
Heaping up treasure
Of golden dust;
Quitting with sorrow
Their mother earth,
Grasping delusions
Beloved from birth.
Yet flowers bedeck
Each earthly sod,
And the stars of heaven
Proclaim a God.
When Mammon lifts
His claws of gold,
They serve the god
With heart a-cold;
And sailing down
Eternity’s flood,
Lay on his altar
Their lives and blood.
Sad is the tale
Of the human hive,
Where pain and anguish
Eternally strive,
For the things of time,
The dust of earth.
Forgetting alway
Their spirit birth.
Ere a few short years
Are gone and sped,
Master and man
Lie cold and dead.
r‘ From t( The Lazy Lays."
THE TRIPLE SOUL.
BT GERALD MASSET.
Many years ago I bad the notion that Spiritualism was
going to explain mythology, and launched on my long, long
voyage of discovery. I collected and correlated the myths
of the world, and mastered the ancient system of symbolism,
including the reading of the hieroglyphs. My results are
not yet ready for publishing, although I have them well in
hand. I would say, however, that although Spiritualism, as
we understand it, may have been known to the ancients, it
does not enter into the origins of the myths, which are solely
physiological and astronomical.
I have not seen Madame Blavatsky’s book, but the dis¬
cussion raised by Colonel Olcott’s letter has induced me to
send you the enclosed extract from my forthcoming work,
as it bears on the question of a triple soul:—
“ The word myth is assumed to mean things fabulous in
the past, and false in the present. On the contrary, it is
the Egyptian word Mat, which means the hardest substance
of Truth. Mat the just and true, proof, appointed, witness,
proved, fixed. Mat is the egg of Ptah, the name of his king¬
dom, as father of beginnings, and former of the egg, or circle.
Mat is foundation, to establish, fix, sole of the foot, granite,
the stalk of a plant; all that is hard and firm, and able to
bear, is Mat. Mat is the mother, and the cabin or ark of
the waters that bore the child. Mata is backbone. Mat is
everywhere the true substantial basis, and the science of Mat
is mythology.
The claim is absolutely true. The myths are founded on
facts observed of old, and verifiable for ever. And here is the
distinction to be drawn between the true myth and the false;
the true is verifiable by existing facts ; the false is not—it
is but an inference, an assertion.
“ Much of the Oriental Theosophy and philosophy, as well
as the Christian theology, belongs to the false myth, and is
non-verifiable; it is the shadow which cannot be grasped.
The true myth was the substance that alone can account for
the shadow, and vain is the endeavour to do without the
substance. For example, we take one form of the Triad.
According to fact and the primordial physiologisers, man is
formed of two principles, the life-giving essence and the
blood-substance. These supplied the soul and flesh, and
from these man was held to be a dual being. The ma (or
mai) is the male element, that which had and gave stability.
The ma. t. (the t. is feminine terminal) is the mother sub¬
stance, the original of matter, which makes mater and
matter identical. Whence mat, the made or created. But
the true spirit of man (homo) as the man {vir) does not
enter the male child till the age of puberty, dependent on a
well-known physical fact. Here was a revelation indeed,
always verifiable. There are therefore three factors of the
human being—the procreative spirit, the menstrual sub¬
stance, and the very soul and self or virility of manhood.
This is the origin and sole foundation of the triple soul of
the rabbinical Ibbur, or mystery of the conjoining of souls.
The Rabbins say there are in man three forms of soul,
known as the Nephesh, Ruach, and Neshma. Nephesh
and Neshma are used in the genesis of man (Gen. ii. 7).
The Neshma is rendered the breath of life, that which was
breathed, or inspired. This is the true breath. Nash (Eg.),
to winnow, illustrates the breathing. Nashma (Heb.), is a
blast. Ma (Eg.), is true. The Neshma was the life-giving
substance, the soul or breath of being. For example,
Ba (Eg.), is the soul as breath, and Ba. t., to inspire
the soul, is the name of the Father as the Breather.
The Nephesh, called the life, is the life of the breath, as the
Neshma is the breath of the life. The blood was the life as
Mother Source, the life of all flesh. The Neshma represented
the Creative Cause, the Nephesh the creatorix, however
muddled this may be in translation. These are two of the
alleged souls. The third is the Ruach, the Divine Spirit
designated the Spirit of God, the Spirit of the Lord. It
was the Ruach of God that moved to and fro in the garden in
I the breath of the day, as the true reading is ; and this
! realises the Creative Father as the’ breather. The Ruach was
! at first the Spirit, the courage or potency of a man.
! (Josh. ii. 11): Our hearts did melt, neither did the Ruach
! remain in any man. The Ruach is here the third or potential
80
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1878.
soul, and the Hebrew retains, as it so often does, the more
physical meaning.
“ Ru-akh, in Egyptian, is literally the spirit of the mouth;
the Ru, mouth, being a symbol of utterance. The mouth
is synonymous with wisdom in both Egyptian and Hebrew.
So interpreted, the Ru-akh is the spirit of wisdom.
“ Hence the Rukhi are the wise men, the Magii, pure
spirits, the knowers, the intelligent beings. In this instance,
then, the Ruach is the spirit of wisdom supposed to come
with manhood, but dependent upon purity; the rekhi are
the pure wise spirits.
“ The Mage is called a Rekh-khet; Khet is to include,
clasp, shut, and seal; Rekh, the spirit of wisdom.
“Then Rukhi became the name for pure spirit in Egyp¬
tian eschatology. One delineation of this is the Phoenix,
the type of transformation.
“ In the Ritual the doctrine is reapplied. I am the soul
in its two halves. The deceased goes into tattu (the region
of establishing), he finds the soul of the sun there. One
and the other are united. He is transformed into his soul
from its two halves, who are Horus the sustainer of his
father, and Horus who dwells in the shrine (cb. 17). The
latter was the child of the mother, the soul in its two halves
is the soul of Shu and the soul of Tefnu, the male and
female soul. Again, (I am the Horus of Kam-Ka, issue of
the red one, supporter of his father, snatched from the
waters of his mother’ (ch. 138). This is said by the de¬
ceased who uses the Solar and physical imagery. The two
halves of the soul are the two truths of Egypt; these are
symbolised by two feathers Mau and Shu, light and shade.
How only in one place do those two feathers become three.
E That is at the point where the sun was annually reborn
as the son. This is the trinity proper of father, mother, and
child. The soul in its two halves following in the wake of
the sun passes through the place of new birth, and here it
receives the reserved soul which is in the gift of Atum
(ch. 15). It is ; spiritualised under the name of Akh’ (ch.
128). And as the place is on the horizon where the sun
emerges, called the horizon of the resurrection, and as the
horizon is the Ru, the triple soul transformed into (or by)
the Ru-akh is the Rukh, a pure wise spirit, including the
trinity of truths, and becomes the perfect soul revivified for
ever. The transactions occur in spirit world, the existence
of the soul is assumed, but as some children are born dead
it was possibly feared that some might not pass through the
Meskhen, the womb of the Great Mother, their spiritual
imagery being strictly natural. With regard to the human
soul and body the language of the Ritual is very express.
There was a natural body and a spiritual body. The soul and
corpse are often referred to. On the sarcophagi!, one of || |
which is in London, are pictures of the soul issuing from | j
the body: it is painted blue, the celestial colour, whilst the j j
corpse is painted red, the Adamic colour of the Flesh-man.* j j
“ And now for the misrendering of the primitive doctrine ! ji j
The triple soul enters the man, say the Rabbins, at distinct |< |
periods; the Nephesh first, at the birth, and at the age of | j
thirteen years and one day, if his deeds be right, he becomes | j
possessed of the Ruach; and if his deeds continue to be ! i
right the Neshma enters into him in his twentieth year. j)j
But, if his deeds be evil the Hephesh and Ruach remain | I
without the Neshma. j j
“Sometimes the man is only worthy of the Nephesh, |jj
and he continues without the Ruach and Heshma; j j:
then the Ruach and Neshma remain concealed in a j |
place known only to God and the holy Augels. t This j j
is the false myth, the shadow of the true. This is the j I
result of theologising and theosophising. As we see in the j j
true myth of the Genesis, the Heshma in the beginning, j |
the first forming principle; the Rabbins have given quite | !
another value, significance, and time to its entrance into |||
man. They are using their misinterpreted Mythology for |||
the foundations of Theology and Eschatology, whereby j j
they create a false kind of Spiritualism, which is entirely ||j
unverifiable, and without meaning, apart from the actual | |
truths, on which the myth rests and remains true for ever. They j I
have sought to attain the spiritual by inverting the natural. | I
* I quote the Egyptians, having spent six years in collecting the proofs that in these j) i
things there is one origin for all, and that is Egyptian. i \ j
t Sepher Gilgulixn, f. 40, c. 1. Stehelin, v. 2, pp. 247—8 ‘ I) i
The pyramid of the old builders was so constructed as to be
climbable. This has been reversed, and only presents a,
broad basis in the air, without the means of mounting to
stand upon it.”
I may add to the foregoing extract the fact that, according
to this philosophising, there is no need to stop at the triple
soul; for, just as they followed the Triad of mythology here,
so they added two more parts—the Chaja and Jechida—and
founded a five-fold soul; and following still further in the
wake of the myths, they adopted the system of the eight
great gods of Egypt, and formulated an octagonal soul, or
an ogdoad and ark-full of souls.
But my point is that the potential immortality of. man
is not based on any spiritual revelation whatever, but is
solely an inference from physiological and astronomical
facts; one of the many abstractions with which we have
been so long pestered in theology, and now it would seem
are to be in Spiritualism. But as mythology is not based
upon Spiritualism we cannot afford to have mythology read
into Spiritualism. The wisdom of the East so-called, has
to be interpreted by an appeal to first principles; these
which were once expounded in the mysteries have to be set
forth without mystery before that wisdom can be of service to
Spiritualists, or we can distinguish between the primary
meaning and the secondary or twenty-secondary application.
This origin and constitution of the dual soul and addi¬
tion of the third soul at the period of puberty naturally left
all children without the genuine soul—the soul that had
power to perpetuate itself-—the child could not procreate,
ergo, did not possess the eternal soul. Hence the belief
that children had no souls, or that they wandered about as
elementaries, for this supposed new doctrine of elementary
souls is as old as Faeryology, and belongs to it.
Bertha, the German goddess, has a vast retinue of these
elementaries in her train of still-born and unbaptised
children, who act in her special service as elementaries (see
Grimm’s Mythology). I could fill a book with these things
—they are a part of my subject. Upon this primeval consti¬
tution of the soul the rite of baptism and conferring a name
is founded. The doctrine is universal of conferring the third
soul by proxy. Hence the god-father and god-mother, or
the father-god and mother-god of earlier beliefs who repre¬
sent the adult creative source. Hence, also, the power
falsely claimed by the Ghurch to save the souls of children
by baptismal grace, in response to the false belief that
children would otherwise be lost. These elementaries
wandered about as elves wanting a name, for to confer a
name is synonymous with constituting a person—this is
illustrated by the Scotch story. An “ unchristened wean ” was
seen wandering about at Whittingham, in Scotland, who
could not obtain foothold in the other world, being minus in
the matter of a third soul. Many saw, but none dare speak
to it, for fear of having to give up their third soul to it.
One night, however, a drunken man addressed the elementary,
“ How’s a’ wi’ ye the morn’s morn, Short Hoggers? ” (Short
stockings without feet. He had walked so long.)
And the elementary, having a name conferred, cried
joyfully, “ Oh, weel’s me noo, I’ve gotten a name. They ca’
me Short Hoggers o’ Whittingham ! ” and vanished—having
got his third soul.
What will be the effect of this sort of thing being foisted
upon Spiritualism and the Spiritualists—the most fervent of
people in pursuing any red herring trailed across the scent ?
Villa Bordighiera, New Southgate, N.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Under the vice-presidency of Mrs. Corner,
the seventh annual general meeting of the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism was held at their premises, 53, Sigdon-road,
Dalston-lane, Hackney-downs, London, E., a few days ago. The
honorary secretary read the minutes of the last half-yearly general
meeting, dated 25th January, 1877, and of the special general meeting,
dated 3lst May, 1877, which were confirmed. The report of the Council
and the statement of accounts for the year 1877 were then read, and we
have already printed a summary of it. In reply to a question from
Mr. R. P. Tredwen, it was explained that the stock account was not
shown in the statement of accounts, as, at the suggestion of the auditors,
it was intended to have a revaluation of the stock. After a few obser¬
vations from other members, it was moved by Mrs. Corner, seconded
by Mr. It. A. March, and unanimously resolved: That the report of
the Council and the statement of accounts as read be approved and
adopted.
Feb. 15, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
81
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS, j j
RECEPTION TO DR. J. M. PEEBLES—SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN INDIA—THE ;)[
EFFICACY OF CURSING—EXORCISING SPIRITS—THE EXERCISE OF OCCULT jji
POWERS—THE RELIGIOUS INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM. jji
On Wednesday, last week, at the usual monthly soiree of the British jh
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, London, jjj
a reception was given to Dr. J. M. Peebles, who is now making his j j \
second tour round the world, in order to observe the progress of jjj
Spiritualism in various countries. There was a large attendance of jjj
well-known Spiritualists, and the proceedings were of a lively nature. j)j
Mr. Alexander Calder, president, took the chair in the course of the jjj
evening, and said: Ladies and Gentlemen,—I have great pleasure in jji
attending here this evening to join in a cordial welcome to our friend j)j
Dr. Peebles. He not only merits our affectionate esteem, but is entitled jjj
to our warmest admiration; for who among us has gone twice round the j j j
world, disseminating at each step the seeds of knowledge, relating to our j) j
highest interests ? Who would not be proud of his experience among jjj
the various races and peoples of the earth? Who would not rejoice jjj
over the sights and scenes which he encountered on his world-wide j !
travels ? To study the quaint manners and customs of the Chinese; to j I
revel in the clove fields of Malacca; to chop logic with the Brahmans at j j
their holy city, Benares; to test the power of the magicians of Madras; jji
to sit under the palm, and scent the cinnamon groves of Ceylon; to j j |
meditate on the sacred fire of the Parsees, and their tombs of silence at jjj
Bombay ; to peep into the Red Sea at the spot where Pharaoh was j j j
drowned; to climb up and speculate on the wonderful pyramids of jjj
Egypt; to linger among the sacred shrines of Palestine, so dear to jjj
Christian association: such are a few of the thousand objects which jjj
have occupied our friend’s attention. Now, as it is impossible for us to jjj
follow his footsteps over such extensive wanderings, we may at least hope j j j
to share in the delight of listening to the lectures which he purposes j j j
from time to time to give on these themes, and when we remember that jjj
the crowning aim of his mission to those lands was the dissemination of jjj
the truths of Spiritualism, we feel that his labour has been devoted to jjj
the extension of the richest blessings to humanity. In a word Dr. jjj
Peebles is a worker whom all may safely envy. In your name, I greet j j j
him heartily; and may the Omnipotent bless him with health, and make jjj
prosperous all his efforts in our glorious cause. (Applause.)
Dr. J. M. Peebles, in returning thanks to those assembled to welcome j j
him, said that he had long felt an inspiration within him to carry the j j
truths of Spiritualism to all parts of the world; that had been his main j j
purpose in his travels, and he carried with him, and scattered every- j
where, books and papers. In every country he had visited he had found j
Spiritualists. Spiritualism he had found everywhere, but more especially j j
in India. The Chinese loved money more than the Hindoos, were not j
so spiritual, and were, in short, the Yankees of the East. He then j i
described their well-known method of obtaining a kind of planchette j j
writing. He next stated that an Irish family, of the name of Kelley, j
lived at St. Thomas, eight miles from Madras, and that the son was a j!
medium. The father was once supervising a body of men on a railway, I j j
when he lost patience with a lazy Hindoo, and struck him severely. The j j
Hindoo called on his God to curse him, saying, “ Curse him in his out- h
goings and incomings! in his thoughts, and in his body!” The next jjj
morning the arm of Mr. Kelley which had struck the man was swollen, j j
and for about three weeks thenceforth it gave him intense pain. All at j j j
once the pains left him, and the same night his son had what was called j j
“ a fit,’’ but which was in reality a trance, and he spoke in the Hindu- i j j
stani tongue. Physical phenomena then began. Stones were hurled j j
against the house, dishes and furniture would occasionally slide around j j
the room. Mrs. Kelley wrote about these disturbances to her- husband, jjj
who then sent for his son; the noises followed him, and stones fell on S j j
the carriage while his brother-in-law was with him. They entered the j|
library, where all the books fell to the fioor, except the Bible. This the jjj
brother-in-law deemed to be a significant point, until he turned to leave jjj
the room, when the Bible flew at him, and struck him in the back. A jjj
Catholic priest was sent for, who sprinkled the building with holy water, j
but the disturbances did not stop. Next, an old man from the mountains, j j
a Fakir, a ghostly old sage, said to have power over spirits, was sent for. j
He took a pot of incense in his hands, marched around the building, ji
chanted prayers, then put his hand on the young man’s head, and told jl
him to fast and to bathe. Next night the old man told the youth to jj
follow him round the building until after dark, when he made him sit jj
down, threw a white cloth over him, and then “ pathetised” his head. He j j
also burnt camphor and frankincense, made the youth change his j
garments, sprinkled him with water, and then retired. Next night was jjj
the time of trial. The old man made the young one march with him j j
round the house, then took him into a private room, where he washed j |
and anointed him with oil; he burnt paper around his body, and burnt jjj
all his clothes, then ordered the “demons” to leave; lastly, he jjj
told the young man that he was safe, and surrounded by a higher jjj
order of spiritual beings, which indeed proved to be the case, j j
He (Mr. Peebles) had met the old man, and was told that the aged jjj
exorcist had never tasted animal food j he never came down from the j j j
mountains when he was sent for by men, but only when he was ordered j j
by his spirits. He was much in demand among the populace. He (Dr. j j
Peebles) also met in Madras a man, a native of the Brahmanical caste, jji
who professed to understand the occult sciences. He took him into a ijj
room in which he (Dr. Peebles) felt a sort of benumbment, and the jjj
occultist told him that he could “ will ” a ball of glass and other things jjj
to move about. He pointed with his finger at the ball, and it rolled this j j j
way and that way, in the directions indicated by his finger. Such was jjj
the fact, whether the motion were produced by will-power, or spirits, or jjj
other means. The Tamil people were easily mesmerised; he (Dr. jjj
Peebles) mesmerised one man until he became but a shadow of himself, ijj
he was so completely under his control; he could make him forget his - (i
own name, and believe that he was the Duke of Buckingham, and could jjj
subject him to the usual mesmeric experiments; once, by will-power
he made this man, Mr. Patina, deliver a trance address; whatever he
(Dr. Peebles) willed, the sensitive spoke. (Applause.) Had his (Dr.
Peebles) spirit been out of his body, he presumed that he might have
influenced the man to speak in the same way. (Applause.) He did not
admire the Brahmans so much as the Buddhists. He was making
arrangements for two Buddhist priests, who could speak English well,
and were more than a match for the missionaries, to visit the United
States to teach the Christians there to lead better lives; he might
afterwards possibly bring them to England. His own position in relation
to Spiritualism was that he knew that he had spoken with the angels of
God, and that there was a life beyond the grave. When he saw the
mourners’ tears falling, and hearts breaking, and people discouraged, he
knew of nothing so capable of relieving them in their affliction. He,
therefore, consecrated his body and mind, and all the powers he pos¬
sessed, to the promulgation of the great truths of Spiritualism, without
which he should have been but a Deist, floating hither and thither upon
the sea of life without a compass. He knew that every deed he com¬
mitted upon earth was interwoven in his spiritual garments of the
future, and he felt that the ministry of angels was a light to enlighten the
world.
Dr. Peebles then sat down amid loud applause, and a vote of thanks
to him for his address, moved by Mr. Parkinson Ashton, was unanimously
accorded.
The proceedings were enlivened by a song of spiritual import from
Madame Schneegans, called The Chorister, in which she displayed her
usual professional ability. Miss Waite recited The Raven (Poe) with
dramatic effect. Mr. Dietz amused the audience by his effective recita¬
tions, and a gentleman from Australia gave a display of his vocal
powers. Altogether it was a pleasant social gathering, and the rooms
were well filled.
LAMENT OF THE PRINCE OF CHOSHIN ON THE DEATH OF
HIS WIFE.
[From the Japanese.^
Waking at midnight when the world is still,
Alone I seem to drift npon a tide
Of dreary waters, while the dying moon
Sinks slowly, gathering all her tender rays,
And leaving the dark-visaged night forlorn;
Moans the wild wind, the air is filled with frost;
My eyes are dull, but solitude and cold,
Like cruel-throated watch-dogs, scare away
The timid traveller, Sleep.
I cannot rest;
A dear face shines upon me like a star
Through, death and darkness. Poor, sweet, lonely love !
Oh, I would be the stone upon her grave,
Or the least flower that blossoms on her dust,
But for the blessed hope that I shall meet
My darling somewhere in the silent land.
The rock of death divides the rushing wave,
But the twain streams shall surely meet again.
Through the dim world the village temple bell
Touches my ears, and every solemn sound
Repeats her name whose pensive thoughts were prayer.
My arms are empty, but my heart is full.
And shall be full of her for evermore.
[Japan Weekly Mail.
(SoTOgponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents,v>ho sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its redders. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
ASTROLOGY TESTED.
Sir,—Stimulated by the discussion that has taken place in your
columns, I recently commenced to dive into the mysteries of astrology,
and perused the Handbook of the late Zadkiel, who, I believe, was
reckoned one of the leading astrologers of his time and country. That
writer gives the horoscope of the Prince of Wales as an example of the
truths of astrology, and he informed the public in 1841, when the
Prince was born, that he would “ in person be tall, fair, slender, and
handsome,” and “ extremely like his royal father in appearance,” of a
“shrewd and clever turn of mind, with good natural talents,” and
hereafter be called “ the wise King Albert.”
Referring to the question of marriage, Zadkiel (quoting Ptolemy,
whom therefore he believes in) tells us that, if, at birth, the moon be
in other quadrants of the heavens than that between the ascendant and
the mid-heaven, “ then the natives generally marry late in life or to
women older than themselves; also that if the moon be configurated
with Saturn it generally delays marriage.”
Now, sir, both these circumstances occur in the case of the Prince of
Wales. The moon is not between the ascendant and the mid-heaven,
and the moon is configurated with Saturn. Again, Ptolemy is quoted
by Zadkiel to the effect that if Saturn be in quartile to the moon (as is
the case here) the life of the mother will be short!
Since, therefore, these are the rules of the divine Ptolemy, and since
Zadkiel himself endorses them, it does seem rather puzzling to an
inquirer into astrology—which undoubtedly contains much that is true
—and leads one'to believe that the science is but imperfectly understood,
even by its most able exponents. The case in question, viz., that of the
Prince of Wales, seems one in which there could not be much question
about the hour of birth.
82
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 15, 1878.
One more illustration before I conclude. Zadkiel also adds that j
“ the sign on the cusp of the seventh house, the planet therein, the lord
of the seventh house, and the planet with which the moon forms the
first aspect, generally describes the first wife.” Now I should like to |
ask your astrological correspondents whether the above signs or planets
really do describe the Princess of Wales 1 The first aspect the moon
forms is with Saturn, and the sign on the seventh’ house is Gemini, J
and, according to Zadkiel, Saturn in Gemini describes “ one of mode- j ]
rately tall stature.” 1 Fritz. j i
Manchester, February 7th, 1878. • j
SPIRITUALISM AND INSANITY.
Sir,—In a letter signed Armand Gresley, in the Revue Spirite, of
February, 1878,1 find the following, which I translate.—“I lately read
statistics of the insane in France, classed according to the causes of
their malady; there was not one single Spiritualist (spirite) among
them.” M.A. (Cantab.).
The early history op spiritualism in America. j j
I BAD also the pleasure of meeting in New York with Mr. Partridge, the publisher of the I) j
first Spiritual periodical in America, the Spiritual 2'elegraph.—Emily KislinSbuky, The j / j
Spiritualist, December 14th, 1877. >|
Sir,—The Spirit World newspaper, published and edited by myself j (j
in Boston, in 1850, was the first periodical ever issued in America
devoted to Spiritualism. The Telegraph was not started till some years j j
after. The Spirit Messenger, Springfield, Mass., and two or three other j ]
spiritual papers in New England, had also priority of The Telegraph. ; > i
The editor of The Spirit World was the pioneer lecturer on Spirit- j) j
ualism in America. He gave the first lectures ever heard on this subject j j
in Boston, November, 1849. In a course of lectures on “ Pathetism,” j j
continued for sixty-two nights in succession, in the old Masonic Temple, j j
Tremont-street, two lectures were added on Spiritualism. Next fall, in j j
1850, 1 hired a hall, and fitted it up at my own cost, and for three j I
months gave gratuitous. lectures three times a week. This was in j j
Tremont-street, at the head of Hanover. For more than two years I n j
occupied that field alone in Boston. i j
I gave the first public lectures ever heard on this subject in New j j
York, Philadelphia, Providence, R.I., Portland, Me., and in other (
cities throughout the country. And, if this were the place, I could give i )i
the history of labours for this cause continued gratuitously from year to | (
year, and tell of heavy expenses, amounting to thousands of dollars, j (
freely bestowed, as the pioneer’s appropriate work. Nor have I ever j i
regretted what this investigation has cost me. I can form no conception j (I
of any higher good that the discovery and the just appreciation of the n
truth. I !
As the history of the pioneer medium, Mrs. Margaretta Sunderland ! j
Cooper, has never been published, perhaps you will allow me the space j) j
for a few words in her behalf. She is the only child out of six that has ] / j
been left to me. She was certainly the pioneer medium for the New ] (j
England States, and, in giving regular sittings, she was the pioneer for | j j
America. Spiritual phenomena had occurred in the family of Dr. )
Phelps, in Stratford, Connecticut, and other places, without any human j j
mediums. And there were five mediums in western New York; the j j
three Fox sisters in Rochester; and Mrs. Sarah A. Tamlin, and Mrs. in
D. D. T. Benidict, in Auburn; none of whom, however, gave regular 11 i
sittings for responses from the spirit world.* Mrs. Cooper’s mediumship i >j
was first recognised September 8th, 1850, in Charlestown, Mass., and i j
immediately after I purchased a house in Eliot-street, Boston, where she | \ j
gave regular sittings, which are supposed to have been the first of the j j
kind ever held. She is never entranced. | j
Mrs. Tamlin was a Methodist—an excellent woman; in her presence I j j
heard music and tunes that I knew were evolved from the air, without i >
any human agency. "When I visited Mrs. Benidict, a message, unasked, j (j
was given to me by raps on the floor, which purported to come from | (
“James Madison, formerly President of the United States.” She gave j)
me, as a token of remembrance, an 8vo. printed pamphlet of sixty j H
pages, containing the “ communications ”■ which had been made through j U
her by the raps, affirming all the vagaries of “Millerism” as to the | ( \
immediate destruction of our planet, the literal resurrection of the i (j
saints, and hell-fire for all sinners.
In the commencement of this movement, it must be borne in mind, j )j
such an occurrence as the “trance,” under spirit control, was un- jjj
known. As the first case in this country was certainly remarkable, I i )j
give you the details. i) |
In October, 1850,1 was giving lectures on Spiritualism in Provi- i j i
dence, R.I., when I received a telegram from Jesse Hutchinson, of the ■ )j
well-known Hutchinson Family of vocalists, which summoned me to m
Milford, N.H., to see his brother, Judson J , who had been | (j
rendered insane by an attempt of the spirits to influence him. On jjj
arriving at Milford, I found the patient in a state of insanity, took I) j
him to the Insane Retreat at Hartford, Ct. It was a shock to his j(i
nervous system, from which he never fully recovered till six years j j j
afterwards, when he committed suicide, at his residence on High Rock, j) j
Lynn, Mass. j(j
For sometime it was only with Mrs. Cooper, in Eliot-street, Boston, I jj
that any opportunity could be had for witnessing spiritual physical j(j
phenomena. It was there that Epes Sargent—always a genial and jjj
welcome guest—commenced that spiritual career of his which is so well j j j
known on your side of the Atlantic. Mrs. Cooper welcomed, with j( j
equal warmth, the visits of Theodore Parker, Horace Greeley, Geo. jjl
Thompson, of England, W. L. Garrison, Henry C. Wright, and jJi
numerous other persons then known to the public. I enclose one ijj
of Mrs. Cooper’s cards for the archives of the British National iji
Association of Spiritualists. , i?
Since the year 1835, I have published, and edited, four different ij i
periodicals, and I think I know something as to what it costs to ' 1
j maintain a truly independent paper when devoted to an unpopular
subject:—
j Palladium of Liberty !
The Press! Independent and free,
Now and ever I
The fogs of error pass away,
And through it shines the light of day.
Shines for ever!
La Roy Sunderland.
Quincy, Mass., U.S.A., Jan. 15,1878.
CHRISTIANITY AND SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—-At various times not a few of your readers have asked me,
personally, and per post, how I can reconcile my “ Spiritualism ” with
my continually expressed respectful references to the Romish and
Protestant religions ?
I beg here to remark that I am a Spiritualist in the same sense as
Serjeant Cox, believing, as I do, that we have had, beyond dispute,
complete phenomenal evidence that there is a soul in man. This is a
grand point gained. Further than this, I cannot venture a positive
opinion, because my sSance experience, thus far, has been limited.
However, with present facts before me, I could never drift into
materialism. An enlarged experience may possibly complete my
spiritualistic education. But I never like to travel in advance of
demonstrated facts in personally seeking after truth—wherever and
whenever found.
Living in a provincial city, I naturally envy the stance experience of
those who can eloquently testify to daily developed psychic marvels,
and regret that a few days’ visit to London, now and then, seems too
short a time for adequate private investigation.
Without being theologically orthodox, my love of an enlightened
Christianity has not suffered, but gained moral force, from stance reve¬
lations, and I think that the Devotional Spiritualism of Dr. Maurice
Davies is worthy the prompt support of all thoughtful persons.
J. T. Marklet.
3, Crawthorn-street, Peterborough, Feb. 12.
ASTROLOGY.—MRS. GUFFY’S “FLIGHT.”
Sir,—Allow me to thank “ Aldebaran ”—always generously ready to
advance the student—for his judgment on my question of sickness.
He is right. The child died ; but not for ten days after the date of the
second figure. The time of death was 8.30 a.m. on the 22nd December.
I do not quite understand how “ Aldebaran ” describes Jupiter—lord
of the greater part of the House of Death—as combust with, the sun,
seeing that, though both in the same house, they are nearly 22 deg.
apart. This applies to the figure for the 8th December. Raphael also
pronounced the second figure to be very menacing, but augured better
of the first.
Adverting to the letter of Mr. Coleman, I will refer again to the
evidence of the alleged transportation of Mrs. Guppy, as given in the
number of your paper cited by Mr. Coleman, and, with your permission,
will trouble you with some remarks upon it next week. I do not know
what there is contradictory in my admissions and denials on this
subject. I take as the standard of evidence for facts of this nature
that which ought to satisfy anyone without previous experience of them,
and with the strongest presumption, compatible with the reception of
evidence at all, against them. It is not because this adverse presump¬
tion is weaker in my mind—owing, perhaps, to similar experiences—
than it has formerly been, or than it is in most other minds, that I am
entitled to describe evidence which raises a case of probability for me
as proof positive and sufficient for all the world. It is also very neces¬
sary, in statements of fact, to avoid mixing up what is inferential.
With all respect for Mr. Coleman, I think he has failed to observe this
caution in stating as a fact that “ the material living body of Mrs.
Guppy was transported from one point to another in an instant of
time.” The most that the evidence can possibly establish is her presence
at one point at one moment, and at the other at the next. Unless the
body was observed in transitu, it is mere inference that the material
body was carried over the chimney pots and through the roofs of houses,
and the ceilings of rooms. Four miles (is not that the distance ?) in an
instant of time would, by the operation of well-known mechanical laws,
effect the disintegration which I imagined was ascribed to the operation
of some unknown law at the commencement of the “journey.” Spirit¬
ualists always properly protest against their phenomena being regarded
as miracles, or violations of the laws of nature, yet, if Mr. Coleman is
right, such a miracle took place on this occasion—for, without one, not
one shred of poor Mrs. Guppy would ever have reached Lamb's
Conduit-street. Even aerolites, which are more tightly compacted
than the human body, are supposed to be disintegrated in their passage
through space.
May I request you to correct a careless error in my German 1 In
my paper on “Space and Time,” the sentence (tDenken Sie das
Wand” should of course read, “Denken Sie die Wand.”
C. C. Massey.
Feb. 10th.  
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—May I try to console your correspondent “Naught,” by
suggesting that those theorists who wish to deprive him of the basis of
his belief in Spiritualism, cannot possibly have had the opportunity
of witnessing the convincing manifestations of beings departed from
earth and now living as spirits that they might have if they chose to
seek them. More experience is necessary for the medium’s-own-spirit-
does-it-ists. If, for instance, one of this sect had attended a seance I
was at last night, he would hawe found himself in the presence of five
distinct individuals all speaking in different toned voices, and three of
whom had been well known to people now alive. Lombard and
Feb. 15, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
83
Robinson, who can be questioned by any one who wishes to do so, are
prepared to assert their conviction that they unmistakably recognise,
the one his father, the other his brother, in two spirits, who are
equally prepared to prove their existence by speaking in a bold sonorous
voice, and to stand a cross-examination on the subject. A female
voice that I remembered well, having often heard it with the Davenports,
came whispering and lisping in my ear to tell me that William Daven¬
port was present, and was going to try to speak. He did succeed in
getting up a whisper loud enough to be heard by all present with its
familiar Yankee twang. I had known him very well, and it seemed
to me as if I were speaking to him as I used to do. He does not say
he is particularly comfortable or happy ; he said he much preferred
living in the flesh to his present state. Under the circumstances of his
case, I was not surprised to hear that. He pulled my hand up from
off' the table, and placed it on his chest, which I felt was very material
and covered with some soft stuff. Surely the hypothesis that these
people are what they say they are is easier than any other. Those who
will take the trouble to go either to 15, Southampton-row on Wednes¬
day, or to 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Sunday at seven o’clock, will
be able to j udge for themselves, as to the truth of my statement. I
hope “Naught” will not allow himself to be discouraged by the im¬
possible theories now put forth, but remember that it was said of old,
“ They will not believe, even if one rose from the dead.”
Nil Desperandum.'
PHYSICAL SEANCES.
Sir,—In your valuable remarks, in the last Spiritualist, upon my
account of the seance held on 22nd January last, there is one point
which, injustice to the Reverend Mr. Colley, I am bound to take ex¬
ception to. You state that “ a new circle, not versed by experience in
antecedent manifestations, does not know on what points to keep a
look-out without some new suggestions.”
For myself, I am very much obliged for any suggestions offered as an
assistance to the discovery of truth ; but, although our circle, as a
circle, may be new, yet Mr. Colley is, I apprehend, one of the most ex¬
perienced investigators of these materialisation phenomena, and indeed
of Spiritualism in general. He has enjoyed the invaluable advantage
of being present at more than a hundred seances with Dr. Monck ; and
I can with truth say that our circle would not have been so successful
had we not enjoyed the benefits of trained experience, and numerous
observations.
I may also add that the several reports published by him of our
sSances were all previously read by me, and, I believe, by the other
members of the circle, before being published, so that we might all
substantiate the facts therein recorded.
I may also remark that Mr. W. P. Adshead, of Belper, another ex¬
perienced observer, sitting with us some time ago, made a report of
what he had seen at our circle (where the Mahedi appeared, and a
female form grew from him), confirming Mr. Colley’s report of that
stance, adding that what he then witnessed far surpassed everything he
had previously seen, or ever read, in Spiritualism.
You unfortunately omitted this, and I now allude to it only to
remove the impression which your remarks might cause, that our circle,
being a new one, does not contain any experienced observers.
A. J. Cranstoun.
[Mr. Adshead’s expression of opinion was one sent by Mr. Colley to various
newspapers, so there was no necessity to occupy our space with it, or to sup¬
press the special contributions of other Spiritualists to permit the said state¬
ment to be printed twice over. It is to the public interest that the printing
space available in Spiritualism should be utilised to the utmost.—Ed.]
Sir,— On Saturday last some new features occurred in the manifesta¬
tions through the mediumship of Mr. Eglinton at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s seance, which may interest your readers.
When the spirit Abdullah appeared in his materialised form, he twice
allowed us to see him gradually shrink in stature and size, and fade into
vapour, which seemed to be drawn into, and absorbed by, the curtain
against which he stood. The process was in effect similar to that which
is familiar in the fading of “ a dissolving view,” but he seemed as vapour
to pass through the curtain out of sight. “ Joey ” having kindly assumed
a bodily form, materialised before us a quantity of spirit drapery, in
which he enveloped himself; he then, begging us to watch him closely,
sat on the ground, and drawing his robes around him, till he appeared a
mere round heap of white, suddenly rose out of the centre in the shape
of Abdullah, the whole white substance which we said, being drawn
upwards into the shape of the ascending figure, and the identity of Joey
was thus merged into the bodily presence of Abdullah, who then retired
behind a curtain, whence, immediately, reappeared in his own person,
“Joey,” who claimed to have thus shown us “ a transformation.”
The personal appearance of Joey and Abdullah is so strikingly dis¬
similar, the former being small in stature, the other tall and slender, that
the change from the one to the other was most marvellous, sudden, and
convincing. Seeing Joey dematerialising himself, and Abdullah
materialising himself out of the substance used by Joey, wherewith to
clothe bis spirit, so as to make himself perceptible to our natural senses,
at one and the same moment (both processes being identical), was
astounding, only to be compared to a ball of white wool unwinding
itself, or being unwound by some invisible agency, and wound off into
another ball, the result of the winding being a white ball of greatly
increased dimensions, although the quantity of wool used had not been
visibly added to.
This most interesting manifestation took place in our midst; there
was light enough, and we were near enough, to recognise clearly the
distinguishing peculiarities of the two separate identities of Joey and
Abdullah to our complete satisfaction.
Mr. Eglinton, during the dark seance, which was full of marvels, was
carried round the room above our heads ; his feet were placed upon my
head, weighing heavily thereupon with sufficient gravity to show me
that he was suspended in mid-air, and let down upon my head by a
power that knew how to convince me of his solidity, without pressing
the fact unpleasantly far. My next neighbour, being a strong and young
man, was supposed capable of bearing more weighty evidence; therefore,
as he testified, Mr. Eglinton was placed standing upon this gentleman’s
shoulders, and was found in that position to be inconveniently heavy.
The seance in all particulars was highly interesting, and made us,
“ poor deluded mortals,” as the world considers us, most happy, and
grateful to the Divine Ruler who permits such manifestations to appear
to us, as the forerunners of great and stupendous changes in the order
of this world’s recognised laws. George M. Sutherland.
117, Sloane-street, Feb. lltb, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OP COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night, at a meeting of the Council of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, Lon¬
don, Mr. Alexander Calder presided. The other members present were
Mrs. Wiseman; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; Mr. E. T. Bennett; Miss
Houghton; Miss Withall; Mr. R. Pearce; Mr. E. D. Rogers: Mr. C.
C. Massey; Rev. W. S. Moses, M.A.; Dr. George Wyld; Mr. Glen-
dinning ; the Rev. W. W. Newbould, M.A.; Mrs. Lowe; Mrs. Maltby;
Mr. M. Theobald; Mrs. Fitz-Gerald; Mr. Cornelius Pearson; and Mr.
Pomeroy Tredwen.
Eight new ordinary members were elected. About thirty who had
paid no subscriptions for a long time were written off the books, and
thirty-two increased their subscriptions in proportions varying from
twice to five times the amount of the previous year.
Mr. H. J. Newton, President of the Spiritualists’ Society of New York,
and Miss Lizzie Doten, were elected honorary members of the Asso¬
ciation.
Various presents to the library were acknowledged with thanks, also
an offer from Mr. Tebb to advertise the Association in the forthcoming
Psychological Review without charge.
The Finance Committee reported a balance in hand of ,£189 13s. 3d.,
and recommended payments to the amount of £93 9s. 8d. It estimated
the outstanding liabilities of the Association at £5.
The Secretary read the report of the Library Committee, which set
forth how, out of the special fund in hand it had proceeded to bind
English and foreign journals in its possession, and to purchase new
books. It recommended that the secretary should enter into correspon¬
dence with Spiritualists in foreign countries, with a view to obtaining
literature, and it recommended that Mr. F. W. Percival should be added
to its members.
On the motion of Mr. Stainton Moses, seconded by Mrs. Maltby, the
report was unanimously adopted.
It was resolved that the next soiree should be held on the second,
instead of the first Wednesday in the month of March.
Mr. Glendinning moved that the members of the “ Progress Com¬
mittee,” who had resigned, should be reappointed, and this was seconded
by Miss Houghton.
Mr. Stainton-Moses moved that they be not re-elected, on the ground
that the “ General Purposes Committee ” to be proposed by Mr. Pearce,
could appropriately do the work.
Mr. Massey seconded this on the further ground that publicly and
privately the late members had been urged at the last Council meeting
not to resign, and had not complied with the request. If they should
refuse a second time, the Council would be in an undignified position,
and it ought not to be subservient to its committees.
Mrs. Lowe supported the amendment.
The amendment was carried by a majority of eight to four. Those
who voted for the amendment were Mrs. Lowe, the Rev. W. W. New¬
bould, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. Wiseman, Mr. C. C. Massey,
Mr. Stainton-Moses, Dr. Wyld, and Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen. Those
who voted for the original motion, were Mr. Glendinning, Miss
Houghton, Mr. Pearson, and Miss Withall.
The amendment was then put as a substantive motion, and carried.
On the motion of Mr. Pearce, seconded by Mr. C. C. Massey, the Cor¬
respondence Committee was abolished by a majority of nine to seven.
On the motion of Mr. R. Pearce, seconded by Mr. Stainton Moses, a
General Purposes Committee was appointed, consisting of the President
[ex officio), Mr. Stainton-Moses, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. C. C. Massey,
Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, Mrs. Lowe,
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Dr. Wyld, Mr. W. Newton, and Mr. R,
Pearce.
A motion in relation to the agenda was postponed till next meeting.
The proceedings then closed.
Reception at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s.—Last Wednesday night Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory gave a reception at 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sqnare, London, to spirit¬
ualistic and other friends, among whom were present Count Russell; Miss Spencer; the
Hon. Mrs. Forbes; Sir Patrick Colquhoun; Mrs. Wiseman; Mr. SerjeantT Cox; Mr.
Mayne ; Mrs. and Miss Strong ; the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A.; Dr. G. M. Peebles ;
Mr. Bailey (author of Fe*tus) ; Mrs. Woodhull; Miss Claflin; the Rev. W. W. Newbould,
M.A.; Miss Emmet; Miss Laura Emmet; Mr. Englefield ; Mr. Ottley; the Rev. H. R.
Haweis. M.A.; Lady Vere Cameron, of Lochiel; Mr. J. H. Gladstones ; Mr. Fuller;
Mr. Buchanan; Miss Katherine Poyntz; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.; Mrs. and
Miss Fitz-Gerald; Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald; Mr. J. C. Earle (author of The
Spiritual Bedy) \ Mrs. Mathieson ; Mr. George Sutherland; Mr. and Mrs. Ward; Miss
Waite; Mr. Peele, R.A.; Mr. Williams; Mr. Fletcher; Mr. Eglinton; Mr. Barrett;
Mr. Ashton; Mr. W. H. Harrison, and many others. Miss Ella Dietz gave two re¬
citations in the course of the evening.
S4
THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 15. 1878.
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
BY ELIZA BODCHER.
In continuation of the above subject, the next two cases
which I shall bring before the notice of your readers,
though by no means of a sensational character, are
valuable as illustrating the theory of the “ double.” The
first account was given me by a respectable and intelligent
carpenter, whom I shall denominate S. A sister of the
narrator had at the time of the event, a lady lodging with
her who was in the last stage of consumption. Mr! S., a
most kindly natured man, was a favourite of hers, and on
inquiry one morning in his usual manner how the lady had j>
passed the night, was met with the answer, “ Oh, Mr. S., i
I’m so tired ! I’ve been up in your shop moving about the j
planks and working so hard that I feel quite exhausted |j
this morning !” (If I remember rightly, but on this point !
I will not be quite certain, she seemed well acquainted with !
the building which she had never entered bodily.) Mr. S. ji
simply thought it an odd dream, and nothing more, but on ||
going to his place of business was greatly surprised by the j|
neighbours who lived in the adjoining cottages coming out ]
and inquiring whatever had been going on in his shop, as jjj
they had been disturbed by noises and the moving about of jj
proceeding from his place of business, and which, ji
of course, during the night, had been entered by no j j
human being in the flesh. Now here we have a triple j I
link in the chain of evidence—the dream, the physical j j
exhaustion (which latter I suppose might be explained by I j
the intimate connection between soul and body), and j
lastly, the testimony of the neighbours.
The second is a brief unvarnished statement of facts j j
told me by a simple unsophisticated old peasant woman jjj
of Wiltshire, who in her younger days, whilst lying in bed jj!
awake and nursing her infant, beheld the figure of her i j
mother come and bend over her; she was so terrified that, jjj
to use her own expression, “The bed shook under her.” jjj
On relating the circumstance to her parent shortly after, j j
the latter replied, “ Then my time is near,” which in this j j
case proved correct, as she died about six weeks after her jj
appearance to the daughter. j j
The phenomenon of spectral animals occupies a small j !
though not unimportant place in Spiritualistic literature, j |
I have met with but one case worthy of record. This j !
phenomenon was witnessed by three brothers, with two j j
of whom I am well acquainted. They lived in their boy- j|
hood in an old-fashioned country house, and one night, jjj
whilst sleeping together a// three awoke, and to their horror j j
saw a huge black dog standing with its paws on the jjj
window sill. No such creaure was in the house, or on j j
the premises, and neither of the witnesses has ever been j j
able to account for the strange appearance.
Phenomena of a different, though not less remarkable jjj
character, have presented themselves at various times to jjj
several members of this well-known and highly respected jjj
family. One of the brothers who witnessed the above (a j j
fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society, and a decided j j
sceptic with regard to Spiritualism), gave me the following jj]
account of his own experience. On one occasion, having j j
taken and furnished a house, he had recently gone to reside jjj
in it with his mother and a sister who at the time v as j j
seriously ill; all had retired to their rooms, when he dis- jjj
tinctly heard the door of the sitting-room on the floor j j
beneath unlock, a man’s step sounded through the apart- jjj
ment; a second door leading to the stairs was also un- ill
locked, and the steps commenced ascending. Arming j j
himself, he at once issued from.his bedroom, meeting his jjj
mother on the landing. She also had been disturbed by jli
the noise, and suspecting burglars, insisted on accompany- j j
ing him down stairs, where to their amazement they found jjj
everything as they had left it a short time previously, j j
wcA both doors locked, non: could a rigorous and thorough j j
search of the house lead to the faintest clue by which j j
to unravel the mystery, which to this day remains as in- j j
explicable as ever. .Jjj
Another sister in the same family, whom I will call M., j i
related to me the following. In her younger days she had jjj
occupied the position of governess in a large establish- jjj
ment of young ladies. The house was old and rambling; ^
j jj the bedroom assigned to M. was a small one, close to a
jjj larger apartment, in which some of the pupils slept,
j After having occupied this room for a short time the lady
j of the house inquired in rather a pointed manner if she
j were ever disturbed; her reply was that in so large an
j establishment it would be strange were she not subject to
j occasional annoyance, but that she wished to make no
j complaint. The lady persisting in her inquiries, she at
j length acknowledged that certainly the servants in coming
j up the stairs behind her room did make a sort of romping
j noise, as though catching hold of each other in fun, and it
j was rather disagreeable; she also said that in the early
j morning she heard soft music, but it was of too pleasing
I and beautiful a character to be disturbing, and she had
j concluded that some of the young ladies were in the habit
j of rising early and practising before the usual hours of
study commenced. The lady’s reply was, “ No servants
j sleep in this part of the house, nor is it possible to account
for the music in the way you suggest, as no young ladies
practise in the early hours of the morning.” The story
went that a gentleman had imprisoned, and finally
murdered his wife in that very portion of the building, and
the mansion was let at a cheap rate, on account of its
reputation. We may come to what conclusions we please,
but the facts remain the same, and the lady’s testimony
is unimpeachable. I venture no opinion; facts are all I
give, and science requires that on facts alone theories
shall be built.
Albion Villa, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
Dr. C. Carter Blake will read a paper, entitled “The passage of
Matter through Matter,” before the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, at its rooms, 53, Sigdon-road, Hackney Downs, Lon¬
don, E., on Monday evening next; the chair to be taken at 8.30 p.m.
Admission free.
Mr. and Miss Dietz’s Recitals.—On Thursday evening last Mr.
and Miss Dietz gave the first of a series of recitals, to be continued
through February and March, at Langham Hall, Great Portland-
street, London. The programme gave plenty of variety and
scope for the two performers, and an excellent contrast was
afforded between the dignified words of “ Marguerite of France ”
and the child-talk of the Emperor’s daughter in “The Swineherd.”
Both these pieces were well recited by Miss Dietz, who seemed in the
latter to fully enter into the quaint, quiet humour of Hans Christian
Andersen’s story. In Mrs. Browning’s two poems, “ Bertha in the
Lane ” and “Mother and Poet,” Miss Dietz had two characters well
suited to her style. The motif of both is similar, inasmuch as they
both hinge on self-abnegation—the dying girl giving up her lover to her
sister, and the Italian mother whose two sons died fighting for their
country, “One bj the sea in the East, one in the West by the sea.”
Miss Dietz not only uttered gracefully and forcibly their impassioned
language, but she merged, as it were, herself into them, and became in
turn the girl dying of love’s wound, and the mother, in the midst of
Italy’s glory, bewailing the terrible desolation of her home. Mr. Dietz’s
skilful renderings of the odd mixture of fun and pathos that runs
through Bret Harte’s works is too well known to need much com¬
ment. Suffice it to say that several of these poems, as well as a ballad
of Will Carlton’s, given with his usual discretion and taste, were, as
usual, well received. But in “ Phil Blood’s Leap ”—a wild story of
mining life, by Robert Buchanan—he took up a somewhat different
line, and when Phil Blood takes his famous “ leap ” over the yawning
chasm, and hangs “’twixt earth and heaven,” sustained only by a little
shrub growing on the edge of the gulf, he held his audience breathless
with suspense, which gave way to a feeling of intense relief as the
story tells how the Indian’s strong hands drag the seemingly doomed
man up to firm ground, and the cry “ Saved! ” rang through the room.
In this recitation Mr. Dietz displayed true dramatic—even tragic-
power, which ought ultimately to give him a good place among the
actors and artistes of the day. It being the first evening, the audience
was rather small, but it was an attentive one, and, as the series pro¬
gresses, so, no doubt, the audience will increase.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. E. S. (Rochester, New York State).—From Matter to Spirit is out of print,
and copies are scarce in England. In reply to your other question, it makes
little difference either way.
Indistinct writing on the part of various correspondents is causing more errors
than usual to creep into The Spiritualist, and will lead to the non-acceptance
of a larger proportion of those letters which are not carefully written.
Some correspondents would write Hindoo and Japanese names of individuals
without one letter in six being decipherable, yet think themselves aggrieved
if the printers did not set them correctly.
R.—It is a humiliating sight to see the less intellectual section of the nouveaux
richesse scrambling after the smallest vestige of an empty title.
Some interesting records by Mr. O’Sullivan will be published next week.
An anonymous correspondent has sent us a strong statement alleged to bo
copied from Miss Becker’s newspaper. We should like to see the original.
Feb. 15, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes;
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual-
, ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
BLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6<L
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. Ss.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams. Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.t
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Od.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals [were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain informatipn about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the nndiumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. od.; cheap edition,
7a. od.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
• William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
■ is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiraui. n-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s'. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. Aninteresting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. BuckniU and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6cL
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. Ss.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Sser,"
Nature’s Divine Revelations.
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia <
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III. „ .
The Reformer. „ IY. „ .
The Thinker. „ Y. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . -
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for Che Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Yictims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures » ' . . .
s. d.
io 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
5 0
7 6
2 0
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
7 6
6 0
5 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s a:
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . , 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spirituaust Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . ... . 5 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China sto India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind’; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .. 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . '. . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three veils. . . . . . . • . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed,
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale , ; . ; . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Bussell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion dow mon-
Spiritnalistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. Tbe
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ‘•hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 /or Is., post free, or 500,/or Is. 6<£, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private fam liej. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the meduimship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part '2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1878,
NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATUKE DEATH BY NATURAL* MEANS.
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Eimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
'E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth centmy
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“ Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
F^NO’S FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes : —
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
_ succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
END’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
' FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
qs the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
ehemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.      Jj
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
END’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the bicod free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c.,- ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and' careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
[ the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it 
J. C. Eno.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with yoiir FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the bensl_t which I have received, I have recommended it
to all mj/iriends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yeurs respectfully, “W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each ' Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline-, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Affentfor /Vww—FHARMACIE DE BERAL. 1 RUE DE
LA PAIX,
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS, '
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to AH Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St.. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Coins.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to he rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful resifit.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk's account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind.like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at aU ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published *a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific foUies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
‘In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of soUd sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book.. .‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses aU while offending
none,”.
• From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known Contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and'poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic Uterature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit... .-The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generaUy comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
Hvely imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News. '
■ “ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
an I irhich created such a furore at the time.” [A.R. An
irsut member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
i the Duke of ArgyU.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—^Effect of Music—^Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Willbythe Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in tbe Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets,Ciystals. etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Cdyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment, of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnain
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thouglit-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—TheMagicCrystal. and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in tbe Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis's Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII;—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bevebidge & Go., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lano, London, E.O.
