RiiUISTERED AS A NEWSPAPER, ■<
C{j£ #lb^st |(^fos^apr Iq^iieS toHIj Spiritwalism m <&xmt §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regulariy on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : it, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 260.—(VOL. XL—No. 7.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, AUGUST 17, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontents.
On Certain Misconceptions regarding Mesmerism. By
Captain John James ...    73
Ideas relating to Immortality Prevalent in France. ByJ.
H. Gledstanes... ... ...       74
An Apparition in New York      75
The Religious Influence of Spiritualism ...    ... 76
Clairaudents of GeniusCharles Dickens—Mrs. H. B.
Stowe...    ...  76
An Example of Spirit-Power. By the Rev. Thos. Colley,
Late of the Royal Navy  ... ...   77
Remarkable Clairvoyance   ... ... ...  77
Spiritualism and Conjurors. By Alfred Russel Wallace ... 78
The National Association of Spiritualists :—^Reception of
the Baron and Baroness von Vay—Mr. Gales Forster on
Spiritualism—A Clergyman on Spiritualism  79
Spiritualism in Edinburgh   80
Poetry:—“ We are Wiser than We Know ” 81
Correspondence: — Spiritualism in Oxford — Astrology:
Destiny versus Prayer—Materialisation of Spirit Heads,
No.- VIII.—The Theory of Reincarnation—The Trustwor¬
thiness of Certain Spirit Messages—Mesmerism and
Phrenology—Was it Blomberg ? ...  81
Case of Clairvoyance Recorded by Harriet Martineau ... 83
Spiritual Impressions Between Waking and Sleeping 84
Spiritualism in Salt Lake City     84
Paragraphs:—Was De Quincey a Spiritualist? 78 ; Mr. and
Mrs. J. W. Fletcher at Dalston, 78; Mr. Robert Dale
Owen’s Children, 81; Scientific Priestcraft, 81; Spirit¬
ualism in Dalston  ...    ... ... ... ... 83
“THE SPIRITUALIST ”, NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rjiHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ises in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions In its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the ‘‘Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-fiolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Suilivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adeima Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the’‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
MJnst.O.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martbeze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246; Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso.. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne.: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Cp. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
C1ARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
J and.Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five'Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiiitualists visiting ' England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.CM
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LOtmHBOROU&H-ROAD-NOBTH, BRIXTON.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c,, apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, HON. SK0.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and stance, 5s. 6<L; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
 E. W, WALLIS, Manager.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Caxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Ils work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., &c., post free 13 stamps.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees.
Show Rooms :—18, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Price from £3 to £9 10s.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O,
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by ,
Pear's, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870:
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
HENRY D. raNCKEN,’ ESQ., M.R.I.
[Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association-for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—53, Siodon Road, Dalston Lane, dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism ; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus'
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have’the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums oh payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on appheation to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hole at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad; &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EYENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Le.ngham Hall, Great Portland-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centra seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started,
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may be obtained, and subscriptions,
donations, &c., received by Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House
Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this hook is to afford conclusive proof
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
Of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
August 17, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vic^-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1,'Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-derald, Mrs.,19, Cambr'idge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Greert-street, Grosv.enqr-square, W.
H,'nywood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeecken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. O., Barrister-at-law, 98, Portland-place. W.
Sogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church^end, Finchlev, isf.
Bpeer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaoe, Hydo-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yaubrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
■ Fitton, R , 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald,DesmondG., M.S..Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-cvescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson. Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. w. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosvvorthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reiners, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson,Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Stfa vnr'dge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliife-gardens, West Brompton,
S.AV.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock. St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M.»62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W-
Wedcwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
W hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. II., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
■Wlthall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 3.0, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorsetrsquare,
London, N. W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W, S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A. )
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Santa Pontecorvo, 80, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr' J. H, Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Ooohet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride,.Esq.,
8,.Grampian-rpad, Edge-lane, Liverpool. • •
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—MiGharles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton. S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 28,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74. Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola.. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot.
Soeiedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
pRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
VT will be published as seen as Mrs. "W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subecribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Da Manner. Holman Hunt, Thomas
’Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. 8. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faust,in, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. "Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpktn, Marshall & Co.
ORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IY. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—YI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenherg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de i’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
file Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gnldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksa&of, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Blschoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Banca Fenzi, Florence, Italy.
err Constantin Delhaz, SingerstVasse No. 7, Vienna, Italy.
J. M- Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,"Ntsy Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresoreiie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
Price 7s, 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex-
tenoed her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the scirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.  
A. J. Rikq, Esq.. OudeMolstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Eranz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lfndesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, "Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Lelpsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U S.A..
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstaues; Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq, 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, (J.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierte, 285, Chaussee St, Pierre, Etterbeek, Brussels.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two yols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.    
KEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M, Leymarie.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, RLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKKR. is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to he addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St HononS,
Paris.
In W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces, . Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E, • ■
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.  
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
• will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
pariiculars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sill wood-road
Brighton.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The trne secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stimps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
1%/TISS MANSELL, Clairvoyant, 71, Pocock-
Uv_a_ street, Blackfriars-road.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT¬
UALISTS.
TI/TUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
eight-aired, and in good condition, to be RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to be disposed of. Application to be made at once to the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLOBY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo-
bald. Part 1, price 6<1., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts hound in one volume,
Cloth 1s. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Jnst published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800yb?' Is., post free, or 500for Is. Gd., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about" or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes SaeGent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religions aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6Jc!. Spiritualist newt paper
branch office.
J[ xrf mb x$ ^pujitunlbm*
VojLUjviE Eleven. Number Seye^.
BY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES.
Should any of your readers happen to taken an interest
in mesmerism and desire to try its effects in the treatment of
disease, it may be useful to notice certain misconceptions
often entertained by beginners. A tyro has often felt dis¬
heartened because, after several trials, he has failed in pro¬
ducing sleep. Now, the fact is, that many a severe pain
may be alleviated or altogether removed, and many a disease
cured, without the patient experiencing the slightest inclina¬
tion to sleep.
When sleep gsr produced, it should be welcomed as a proof
of the susceptibility of the patient to the mesmeric influence
promising some substantial benefit, and naturally encourag¬
ing the mesmeriser to persevere. But the mesmeric coma is
not absolutely necessary, except in cases where an operation is
to be performed and complete insensibility to pain is required,
or when the patient has been deprived of natural sleep
for any length of time; in the latter case the mesmeric
passes, even if they do not produce any immediate and
marked effect, will often tranquillise the system, assist
nature, and lead to the patient’s enjoyment of a good night’s
rest.
Beginners are sometimes afraid of producing bad effects
on their patients, in fact of doing them more harm than
good, and when they have succeeded in entrancing them are
anxious, and even alarmed, if they cannot easily awaken
them. Now, I never heard but one opinion from the most
experienced mesmerisers, with Dr. Elliotson at their head,
and it was that they had never met with a case where any
mischief could have been fairly attributed to mesmerism,
and that the longest and deepest sleep will always pass off
spontaneously. For my own part I should not hesitate to
mesmerise a patient suffering from the worst form of heart
disease, and that is about the strongest illustration of my
opinion as to the safety of the treatment of which I can
think.
At the same time I should not venture to undertake the
treatment of any severe form of disease, without the express
sanction of the patient’s ordinary medical adviser. As a rule,
I have found members of the medical profession to be re¬
markably liberal on this subject, and have frequently been
asked by them to try the effects of mesmerism on their
patients, when the usual resources of medicine had failed in
producing natural sleep or the alleviation of pain.
They were evidently determined to give the sufferer every
possible chance of relief, whether the treatment was, or was
not in the Pharmacopoeia, or whether it was popular or un¬
popular. Of course there are exceptions to this liberal feel¬
ing, and there have been many instances, where medical
gentlemen have bitterly opposed the practice of mesmerism
—though entirely ignorant of the subject—simply because it
appeared as a trespasser on their domain, and they evidently
thought it a piece of gross impertinence that it should cure,
when they had failed.
The most troublesome cases that I have met with
have been where the patients were naturally highly
nervous and excitable, and where symptoms of hys¬
teria had declared themselves, mixed up with the mes¬
meric sleep; and in these cases the mesmeriser often
finds it difficult to establish and retain his control. Bat
after a very little practice the mesmeriser will discover
methods of tranquillising the patient, such as breathing
slowly over the region of the heart, or at the back of the
neck, just at the junction of the spine with the cerebellum,
and sometimes by passes from the region of the heart carried
down to the extremities.
It is in those cases mixed with hysterical symptoms where
we generally find the greatest difficulty in determing then
sleep, and restoring the patients to the normal state.
The most obstinate case of prolonged sleep I ever met
with in my own practice was that of a lady who was a great
sufferer from hysteria, whose sleep on one occasion lasted
seventy-two hours. All the usual methods of demesmerising
were employed, but with no effect. At last she told me to
have a pail of water by my side, and that I was, in the course
of an hour or two, to suddenly dash the water over her head.
This was done, and her eyes immediately opened, and, by
degrees, recovered their natural expression. This patient
was seen during her long sleep by Dr. Newnham, of Farn-
ham, who told me that he had been requested to write a
pamphlet against mesmerism. The doctor, however, was so
much impressed with what he witnessed in this case that he
wisely determined to study the subject before writing on it;
0 ! si sic omnes ! and eventually wrote a book in favour of
mesmerism.
Another common mistake is to suppose that women have
little or no mesmeric power. On the contrary, many women
are powerful mesmerisers, and they have these advantages
over men, viz., that they have more patience, and, as a rule,
more sympathy for the suffering. It is, indeed, very desirable
that women should more generally exercise their mesmeric
powers, as there are many cases where, for evident reasons,
female patients should be treated by female practitioners,
and thus the chief objection to which mesmerism is open
would be done away with. In the present day, when so
much is said and written about the difficulty of obtaining
suitable employment for women, I cannot imagine a more
useful occupation than that of alleviating the sufferings of
their own sex by using those healing powers with which
nature has endowed them. The field is large, and there
cannot possibly be real occasion for jealousy, for were the
medical practitioners multiplied a hundredfold, human suf¬
fering would still afford a wide field for their exertions.
It has been often said in my hearing, u Oh! no doubt it
is very easy to mesmerise women, they have so much imagi¬
nation, and are so nervous, anything that has an air of
mystery would be likely to affect them!” If it were really
the case that women only could be affected by mesmerism,
and cured of many of their complaints, as well as relieved
from severe pain, would that be a trifling boon ? It cer¬
tainly has always appeared to me a somewhat eccentric and
rather whimsical reason why mesmerism should be relegated
to the limbo of useless discoveries because women only can
be benefited by it!
But the fact is that the susceptibility to mesmeric influ¬
ence is not confined to women, many men of all ages, of
every class, educated and uneducated, have been mesmerised,
| \ | the severest operations performed on them without pain
I during the mesmeric sleep, and a long list of their diseases
I | cured or alleviated.
! 11 The best cases I have met with, as regards extreme sus-
j [ ceptibility to the influence, have been amongst boys. My
111 first patient was a soldier boy about fourteen years of age,
11 who was so easily affected that one pass down his back, even
11 without his knowledge, would throw him into a deep sleep,
11 and slow breathing on his forehead for less than a quarter of
| j a minute would produce the same effect. At the request of
I a medical friend, I mesmerised this boy from another room,
| i through closed doors, my friend engaging the sensitive’s
| attention by showing him a book of pictures; but, in a
II very few minutes, the lad fell back as if he had been shot,
|! and was found to be deeply entranced. Every precaution
| had been taken in this case to prevent the boy suspecting
11 that I was about to try this experiment, and, on leaving the
I room, I said that I was going to visit an invalid, who was
til in another part of the house.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 17th, 1877.
ON CERTAIN MISCONCEPTIONS REGARDING
MESMERISM.
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 17, 1877.
This patient had a comrade, about the same age, who was
almost as susceptible. The first boy mentioned was once
lying down in a deep mesmeric trance, and his friend
was sent for and told to awaken him. He shook the sleeper
and called him by name, but could not awaken him; he
then by degrees became affected himself; the influence
proved contagious; he rocked to and fro for a few seconds,
and fell fast asleep across the body of his comrade.
Of course, these are exceptional instances of such extreme
susceptibility, though many practitioners have occasionally
met with equally remarkable cases.
There is the case of a stout, healthy man being easily
entranced at the first trial. A recruit in my own regiment,
twenty-one years of age, who had never heard of mesmerism,
and did not know that he was expected to go to sleep, was
mesmerised and entranced by the brother of one of the
officers, who then sent for a musket, when the Sergeant-
Major put the somnambulist through the manual and
platoon exercise, which he performed in far better style than
he could have done when wide awake.
In this case the sleep was so profound that when standing
at ease and his attention not aroused, his limbs would
immediately relax, and his musket fall to the ground.
I have also successfully mesmerised elderly men and
women, but have found that very young people are much
more easily affected than the elderly or very old.
A well-known London dentist told me, many years ago,
that he had mesmerised his father every day for several
weeks, before he could produce sleep; he succeeded in curing
his patient; but, strange to say, as soon as the recovery was
complete he could no longer entrance him. The same cor¬
respondent in another letter stated that during the mes¬
meric sleep he had extracted ten teeth and stumps from the
mouth of a lady in three successive days; his description of
the operation is worth recording as a proof of the great value
of mesmerism as an anaesthetic, and although the case is not
quite relevant to the subject of this article, its introduction
may probably be excused on account of its general interest.
He wrote:—
Some of the teeth—the molars—'were tremendous fellows, with large
hooked fangs, the stumps much decayed, and deep in the jaw, but that
was of no consequence to the patient, she laughed and joked during the
operation, of which she has not the slightest recollection. The patient
is a very fragile being, and simulation is out of the question. I shall
have to write up, “ Tooth drawing a luxury! ” The lady has not
experienced the slightest pain in the gums from the operation, and I
consider it very extraordinary that the gum was as firm in twelve
hours as it would have been in a week under ordinary circumstances.
The higher phenomena, when they do occur, are generally
developed in patients between the ages of about fourteen
and thirty, and I have never met with a case of clairvoy¬
ance in a sensitive younger than twelve or older than forty.
The experience of others may possibly be different.
The following extract from a letter written to his sister
many years ago by the commanding officer of a regiment
quartered at Jersey, shows that a very young girl can success¬
fully mesmerise, and how an infant was affected by the passes.
The writer says:—
“I have been mesmerising my servant’s child, a young
girl, but have not yet succeeded in putting her to sleep.
The child, however, one day tried to magnetise her brother,
a little boy aged four years, whom she was ordered to take
care of, and succeeded so well, that the infant was found in
a trance on the floor. The girl says, * he tumbled over as if
he had been shot, after she had just done for about five
minutes what the master was in the habit of doing to
her.’ ”
In conclusion, I think it very probable that most, if not all
people—particularly if out of health—may be affected by
mesmeric treatment, and that the very young and weak may j
occasionally be successful operators.
The Booms of the National Association of Spiritualists will be
closed on Monday next, August 20th, and following days, and will be )
reopened on Monday, September 3rd. 1
Letters for Miss Kislingbury, during her absence in the United |<
States, should be addressed to the care of Dr. Eugene Crowell, 196, JL
Clinton Avenue, New York. Miss Kislingbury leaves England to- |)
morrow. In the course of her travels in the States, she will visit Mrs. j (I
Dale Owen, at Lake George. i I
I! IDEAS RELATING TO IMMORTALITY PREVALENT IN
FRANCE.
BY J. H. GLEDSTANES.
I have just received a short but kind reply from Andrew
j Jackson Davis, to a letter I wrote him requesting an answer
i to the following question :—“ How is it that the theory of
| reincarnation, if not true—although solving many problems
I otherwise insoluble—is now generally taught by spirits?”
| I had hoped that that enlightened Spiritualist and famous
| medium would, have given me some good strong arguments
| against reincarnation, which I might have sent you for the
| benefit of those of your readers who do not accept that
j doctrine. It is some time since they have been favoured
| with arguments against it, as what has lately been written
| on the subject has been in its favour.
This is what Davis says :—u The harmonial philosophy is
| from end to end an argument and a revelation against
| reincarnation, and I can only refer you to it for my impres-
| sions on the subject of your inquiries. Of course there is no
| universal likeness of opinion among spirits, as there is not
! among men, upon any question purely intellectual. Hence
the diversity of communications upon this or upon any other
question can only be an element, not an authority, for man¬
kind’s mental growth in truths metaphysical and spiritual.”
It seems extraordinary that there should be two opinions
among spirits on a matter of this kind, concerning which
one would think inhabitants of the spirit world ought to be
able to come to a unanimous conclusion. An exponent of
the Spiritualistic faith labours under a disadvantage in not
being able to speak definitively on this subject, for it
seems to me to be impossible to come to a certain
conclusion one way or the other. To any one living on the
Continent, associating with Spiritualists, and knowing all the
arguments in favour of reincarnation, it is impossible to
decide in the same summary manner against it, that is done
by home-keeping people, who not liking the idea settle it to
their own satisfaction. In France the different groupes all
over the country are taught the theory of reincarnation,
consequently the French Spiritualists accept it without
hesitation, their minds are quite made up about it; not to
believe in the plurality of earthly existences, they say, is
childish folly, without which belief Spiritualism would be
nothing. The rest of the nation is divided into two parties,
the good Catholics and the nihilists. There are no mild
religionists among the men, as in England, who go to church
to please their wives or because it is a proper thing to do;
they either assist at religious observances because it is agree¬
able to them to do so, or they renounce them altogether; for
not believing in God or immortality, why should they attend
tedious ceremonies to praise or appease a God who does not
exist ? This latter class comprises nearly the whole popula¬
tion of the educated males, who have not been turned from
their unbelief through spiritual phenomena. I often subject
myself to much raillery for maintaining that men have
immortal souls. I am told that now, having arrived at years
of discretion, it is time I should disabuse my mind of such
erroneous early teaching, because all but foolish fanatics,
know that once dead, one is indeed dead—“ Une
Jois mort on est bien mart ”—that death is a long sleep,
and so on. This is the notion that pervades all classes
of men and women who are neither Spiritualists nor
under the influence of the priests, in which latter case they
go to the other extreme, and believe implicitly whatever
they are taught. A lady whose husband died suddenly from
heart complaint, told me that it would ever be a source of
regret to her that the suddenness of his death did not allow
time for a confessor to be sent for; nevertheless she
fervently hoped that the omission of the performance of
the final ceremony of the Church would be condoned, as her
husband had confessed two days previously. Another lady,
wishing to improve the occasion, on Good Friday, asked
her woman servant what that day commemorated. The
answer that it was “the day on which God died,” was
deemed perfectly satisfactory, and void of all incongruity.
What with people who decline to believe that they have
souls, and others who think that a ritualistic performance
Attcujs* 17, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
75
can affect their future welfare, or that the idea of a dead
God is quite in harmony with reason and experience, it
behoves us who are not in the bonds of credulity or incre¬
dulity to do all we can to enlighten our fellow creatures.
Mr. Winwood Reed says, in The Martyrdom of Man, that
he considers it necessary for the welfare of the human race
and the progress of civilisation that men should know that
immortality is a myth. It was very kind and proper of him
to say so, if he thought it; it showed at any rate that he took
an interest in humanity; but, as I see the word “ late ”
attached to his name, I presume he would like to revoke
that opinion, as he must now be aware of the great ad¬
vantage to mankind it would :be to establish the fact of the
absolute certainty of immortality. Those who have taken the
trouble to look for the evidence of that fact, have invariably
found it; but there still remains a difficulty as to details.
If pre-existence could be proved, it would help us in the
question of reincarnation. Mr. Livermore’s spirit-wife said
to him, “ I have learnt that we live before we are born into
the world.” This is one of the most satisfactory cases of
proved identity on record. No one reading Mr. Livermore’s
critically precise account of his wife’s continued appearance
during the space of five years—to be found in the second
and third volumes of The Spiritual Magazine—can doubt as to
the genuineness of the manifestation, except it be Lord Rad-
stock, who told me it was the devil taking the wife’s form
to pull him (poor Livermore) into hell.
Some thoughtful men have come to the conclusion, out of
their own heads, that reincarnation is a necessity of exist¬
ence. In the New Koran there are several verses in favour
of the idea ; its author, in answer to a letter I wrote him,
asking where he obtained his facts, replied, “ I got the New
Koran ideas respecting reincarnation, not from any books, but
from my own patient inquiry and meditation.’’
Dr. Doherty says that it is impossible to settle the ques¬
tion, as there are no data to go upon, but that the convic¬
tion he has come to from a long and philosophical study of
life is that the theory is correct.
The notion seems to be obtaining that not only have we
lived before as men, but as inferior animals. The editor of
La Religion Laique says, “ Whether we are Christians or not,
we desire and believe in the salvation of all mankind, and
not only of all mankind, but of all beings. We assert that
they are all on the road to become human, and thus rise,
through humanity, to divine perfection. In this way alone
can we recognise God’s justice. Life would be but a decep¬
tion, and the knowledge of good and evil a farce, unless
every sentient creature were summoned at the cost of strife,
suffering, and labour, to rise progressively from states, ever
increasing in importance, until finally he attain to the full
state of perfection.” If it be true that we have descended,
morally as well as physically, from the dumb animals, taking
at each metamorphosis the form of a superior one, it is not
difficult to conceive the possibility of the soul clothing itself
during different earthly peregrinations with the human form
under successively improving conditions. The aborigines of
Australia, who say we “ tumble down black fellow, and
jump up white fellow,” show that they have the intuition of
promotion by death.
The readers of this journal must be getting accustomed to
this idea; so let us hope, in case it eventually prove correct,
we shall not be without u a place in the fabric of our thought
for it to be fitted into.” Davis himself believes in the de¬
velopment theory, for he says in one of his Morning Lec¬
tures : 11 All mankind inherit animal blood. We received
it from our predecessors in the order of organisation. No
theology, no science, no philosophy can refute the doctrine
of the rudimental origin of human beings.” He does not,
however, think the moral qualities develope pari passu with
the physical. He says : “ Love and wisdom come not from
the lower world.” Wherever they come from, it will be a
blessed day when they are poured out in larger abundance
than at present. It is always a consolation, however, to
have an abiding faith in the ultimate triumph of good, for
one who has that can witness with tolerable patience the
horrors that are daily perpetrated even in times of peace,
knowing that the day, however distant, will eventually come,
when men will learn to be wise, and cease to be selfish.
II AN APPARITION IN NEW YORK.
Madame Blavatsky, of New York, has favoured us by forwarding
|, the following extract from The New York Sun of July 29th last:—
Mr. Leon Eurniss, a scion of an old and wealthy New York family,
] committed suicide at midnight on Friday in his home in Nicholas
Avenue, corner of One Hundred and Fifty-third-street. Mr. Furniss
had a large number of friends in society, but had gradually become
estranged from them on account of the violent temper and intemperate
habits which of late had characterised him. He was, however, of very
liberal disposition, and though possessed of a large income, variously
estimated at from 20,000 dols. to 25,000 dols. a year, he always was in
debt before the end of the quarter.
! Mr. Charles H. Cooper, a well-known club man, was an old friend of
Mr. Furniss, and was visiting him when he shot himself. He was
i much affected, and admitted being thoroughly unmanned. He said :—
i “ I have passed through some terrible scenes, but have never been more
I deeply impressed and shocked by an event than I was last night.;
Leon Furniss was an old friend of mine. About the fourth of July he
| met me and asked me to come up here and spend a few days with him.
| He appeared to be in a very morbid state of mind, and knowing of his
separation from his wife, I attributed its cause to his being so lonely,
and came up. It is only recently that he began drinking so heavily, and
| since I have been here he has been much more temperate. On
| Thursday his wife came up to see him, and remained at dinner. She
I declined to stay all night, although urged to by Mr. Furniss, and
I returned to town. She is a charming lady, and about the domestic
difficulties I prefer not to speak. After her departure Leon remained
moody and abstracted all the evening. I tried to cheer him up, but
except an occasional remark, ‘She loves me still, she loves me still,’ he
would say nothing more. He walked the floor a good deal that night.
On Friday morning we took a drive up to Schedler’s. He drank only
one glass of lager there, and came back more cheerful. In the afternoon
we paid a visit to a friend’s house near by, and sat talking to the family
for some time. A change had come over him, and he remained moody
and abstracted with his arms folded during the visit. Going home we
met Dr. Bronson, his physician. We were going to call on the Doctor,
but he said that he had a visit to pay. The Doctor and I both noticed
a strange gleam in Leon’s eyes, and the Doctor soothingly said to him,
‘Now, Leon, don’t go and get mad at yourself.’ We returned home,
and, after supper, sat in the front porch smoking for some time. His
melancholy appeared to increase, and I told him stories and sang
several songs to amuse him. All was without effect. Once he roused
| himself, and said that he wished he had my jolly temperament.
“ About half-past ten p.m. I told him that we had both better go
I to bed and get a good night’s rest. After staying in his room a little
while, I retired to mine and undressed. I lay on the bed for some
time, but was nervous and oppressed with the idea that something was
I about to happen. I at last fell into a doze, from which I was suddenly
awakened by Leo’s voice crying, ‘ Helen, Helen, John, John.’ There
are two maid servants in the house, one of whom is named Helen, and
the coachman’s name is John. I thought nothing of this, as he was
apt to call a servant at any hour of the night. A minute more I heard
the loud report of a revolver from outside my window. Leon’s room
was in the second story front. In the rear was a large bath room, and
at right angles to the door of the bath room was my door, both doors
entering the hall. I jumped out of bed as soon as I heard the report,
not dreaming that it had been fired by Leon, but thinking that it
j came from outside, as it certainly so sounded. I rushed to my door
and opened it, and as I did so Leon appeared at his door leading to the
bath-room. It was the most terrible sight I ever witnessed. He
| walked slowly, clad only in his night shirt, a few steps to the side of
the bath, and said, ‘ Charley, I have shot myself through the heart.’
I Both hands were against his left breast, and the blood was fast cover-
| ing his shirt, and dropping on the floor. I sprang toward him, ex-
I claiming, ‘Great God! Leo, how did this happen? I’ll go for the
Doctor.’ He shook his head, and said, | Don’t you go ; don’t you go.’
j As he did so he sank on the floor beside the bath. I knew that it
was life or death to get a physician, and pulled on my trousers and
shoes, and ran as hard as I could down stairs and out of the house to
the physician’s residence in 152nd Street. I woke Dr. Bronson up by
calling to him from the outside, and told him that Leo had shot himself.
As I spoke I saw Leo dressed in a night shirt, and with a revolver in
his right hand, coming down the street, as plain as I see you now. I
| was alarmed, and thought at first that he was only slightly wounded,
and was coming after me, in his anger at my going for a doctor, when
he told me not to. I called to the Doctor again to come down, and
j said, ‘ Leo is almost here now.’ I walked to the back of the house and
to another street, where I met a policeman, and we went back together
to the house.”
“ It could not have been Mr. Furniss ? ” the reporter asked.
‘‘ It was not him," Mr. Cooper said solemnly, “for I learned at the
| house that he breathed his last four minutes exactly after I ran out
| for a doctor. Just that space of time had elapsed exactly when I saw
it coming down the street, revolver in hand. I was nervous and ex¬
cited, and do not believe in ghosts, but I saw the spirit of my lost
friend in front of the doctor’s house. On returning to the residence I
went upstairs. Leo lay stone dead in the bath room. In his bedroom
a mosquito shade had been removed from a window. The window
was open, and outside on a ledge was the revolver. The blood trickled
down the shade which reclined against the window, and there was a
pool in the bath room where he fell. He had shot himself in the left
I breast, and the wound almost covered the nipple.”
| The coroner held an inquest yesterday, and a verdict of suicide while
j temporarily insane was rendered. The funeral will be held from his
| late residence, at 11 a.m., Monday,
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 17, 1877.
THE RELIGIOUS INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM.
Thus far Spiritualism has of necessity been phenomenal.
The world demanded facts, and the demand has been
answered. It has been a disintegrating force which has
driven apart instead of cementing together. It has quick¬
ened the selfish antagonisms in order to rend asunder and
shake loose the bigotry and superstition which oppressed
mankind. Now an earnest demand has been awakened for
a higher life, a catholic system, which shall harmonise and
unite all contending elements.
The Spiritualist who overlooks the present life in his eager
gaze into the future, builds his castle in the air, beginning
at the summit instead of the base. The very fact that we
are immortal spirits after death proves that we are spirits
now, flesh-clad, but spirits nevertheless. We are in the
courts of heaven as much now as we shall ever be in the
remotest future. Thus it becomes evident that our progress
should date from the present moment. This life has its
infinite responsibilities and duties, and to none other than
the Spiritualist have they greater interest. To none other is
a true, pure, and noble life of more unspeakable value, for
he relies on himself, and not on a vicarious atonement. His
morality must become the stronger and purer by this high
ground on which it rests.
After becoming convinced of the truthfulness of the mani¬
festations, we involuntarily ask what is their significance.
If they only make the after life a reality, they but prove
what has long been believed. We think a great mistake has
been made by very many investigators in resting at this
stage. Spiritualism has little value unless it reacts on the
conduct of life. This reaction makes it a religious power
which draws its invincible strength from knowledge or
science. We need not pause to discuss whether man has
a religious nature, or religious wants or not; whatever be
his nature or legitimate wants, they will be answered in a
perfect manner.—Religio-Pkilosophical Journal.
CLAIRAUDIENTS OF GENIUS.
CHARLES DICKENS—MRS. H. B. STOWE.
“ Lothair,” said a deep, sweet voice, that could never he forgotten. “ I am
here,” he at last replied. “Remember,” she said, with a glance at once
severe and solemn. Lothair sprang forward to throw himself at her feet, but
alas! the form melted into the moonlight, and she was gone—that Divine
Theodora, who, let us hope, returned at last to those Elysian fields she so well
deserved.—Lothair: By B. Disraeli.
When one puts down that instructive book, Lothair, one
feels almost grateful that this interesting clairvoyant and
clairaudient medium was only the hero of a work of fiction.
For, if a veritable personage, he would most assuredly have
rendered himself liable, on more than one occasion, to a
Government prosecution for palmistry or otherwise. If we
could still cling to fiction as our basis, and suppose Lothair
to have been in the United States of America, he would, in
that case, without doubt, I fear, have been numbered among
the ten thousand Spiritualists shut up as demented ones,
according—if we are to believe the Lancet—to another piece
of pure invention, ycleped Spiritualistic Madness, by Dr.
Forbes Winslow, the younger (always let it be remembered
the younger) for in this case,it is not “ like father like son.”
.Had Lothair resided in France, even then he would not have
been safe; for he might certainly there also have been
incarcerated, if he had only innocently come in contact with
those who supplement fact by fiction, whether through
delineation by the pen or by the sun, as raids on the press,
and on a treacherous photographer have proved. But a
truce to fiction ; what we have to do with is fact. The fact
of clairvoyance and clairaudience claimed for the hero of a
novel by its illustrious author, perhaps from the intuitive
knowledge that such tendencies are but normal attributes of
true genius. And we also have really begun to think, since
we have investigated the subject, that far from clairaudience
being a rare accompaniment of genius, that, on the contrary,
there have existed but few real geniuses entirely unendowed
with this especial gift, or at least with some of its spiritualistic
correlatives.
Charles Dickens, for instance, was strongly imbued with
the gift of clairaudience. So, it is said, is Mrs. H. B. Stowe,
the author of Uncle Tom's Cabin; while Sir Walter Scott
and Mr, Thackeray were endowed with gifts so nearly allied
!to it, that, like light, heat, electricity, magnetism, and
other physical forces in correlation, we may-regard certain
spiritual aptitudes, such as hearing, speaking, seeing, inspi¬
rational and trance mediumship as correlatives also.
One has only to read some of the late Lord Lytton’s novels
to make a shrewd guess that he, too, was a partaker in some
of the aforesaid spiritual gifts, however his natural reserve,
and deep knowledge of the world’s scorn may have taught
him to conceal them from the superficial crowd. And as to
that glorious, genial, cheery, delight of our youth, the late
Captain Marryat, what are we to say of him ? Ah! what
j indeed. There are few persons to whom believers in
| Spiritualism are more indebted than to Dr. Eugene Crowell,
! whether for the detection and chastisement of the calumnies
! of its enemies, or for the elucidation of its truths. In his
Identity of Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
we find the following proofs of clairaudient mediumship
in that wondrously sympathetic novelist, Mr. Charles Dickens.
Dr. Crowell informs us as follows : “ Mr. G. H. Lewes, in
| an article written by him and published in the Fortnightly
|j Review says : ‘ Dickens once declared to me that every word
| he said by his characters was distinctly heard by him.' Again
i Dr. Crowell says, “ Mr. James T. Fields also bore testimony
! to the mediumship of Mr. Dickens in his lectures on Fiction
| and its Ancient Authors. He then said, ‘ Dickens was at
! one time so taken possession of by the characters of whom
! he was writing, that they followed him everywhere, and
! would never let him be alone for a moment. He told me
| that when he was writing the Old Curiosity Shop, the
| creatures of his imagination so haunted him, that they would
| neither allow him to sleep nor eat in peace; that little Nell
| was constantly at his elbow, no matter where he might
i happen to be, claiming his attention and demanding his
| sympathy, as if jealous when he spoke to any one else. When
j he was writing Martin Chuzzlewit, Mrs. Gamp kept him in
| such paroxysms of laughter, by whispering to him in the
I most inopportune places—sometimes even in church—that
he was compelled to fight her off by main force when he
| did not want her company, and threatened to have nothing
j; more to do with her unless she could behave better and come
j only when she was called.' "
Dickens was here either hallucinated, or the veritable
j spirits of these characters made themselves manifest to him;
If; or other spirits who personated these did so; and as no one
| has ever charged him with being subject to hallucinations,
| either in this or any other instance—and as we know that in
! thousands of instances of persons now living, they have seen
| and heard spirits—we claim that the actual presence of
| spirits, and of their manifestation to him, is the only reason-
I able conclusion to which we can come in the consideration of
1: his case.
Dr. Crowell tells us also of Mrs. H. B. Stowe, that she
| says, in relation to her celebrated work Uncle Tom's Cabin:
I <£ She did not write it; it was given to her; it passed before
| her. She had to tell it as it came to her, and suffered in so
i doing.” Something very like the above is told of Sir
j Walter Scott, which, if it cannot be precisely called clair-
| audience, is at any rate impressional writing in very close
| connection with it. The following was written of Sir Walter
] by his biographer, Lockhart, respecting his Bride of Lam-
i mermoor. He quotes James Ballantyne, Scott’s printer, as
| saying, “ The book was not only written, but published
I before Mr. Scott was able to rise from his bed; and he
| assured me that when it was first put into his hands, in a
I complete shape, he did not recollect one single incident,
i character or conversation it contained.”
Here, also, is an analagous assumption respecting that
! great and deeply discriminating reader of human nature,
| Mr. Thackeray. Dr. Crowell says :—
“ Mr. Fields in his work entitled Memories of Many Men,
j relates a conversation he had with Mr. Thackeray, from which
] we extract the following: i I then remarked to him that he
j must have known intimately many French families of the
| best class ; that his French characters were more accurately
| and delicately drawn than those of any other English writer
I whom I had ever read; and to this opinion I still adhere,
j He assured me that, on the contrary, he had never in his life
| been intimate in a single French family.' It may well
j surprise Mr, Fields, as well as his readers, and it is wholly
August 17, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
inexplicable, unless we assume that the spirit of a French¬
man impressed Mr. Thackeray’s mind while writing the
works, and then all difficulty in explaining disappears.”
I am in accord with all Dr. Crowell says in the above
extracts; and as I have shown in former papers that the
greatest poets were for the most part clairaudients, so I have
now much pleasure in showing also, from good authority,
that our greatest modern writers of fiction are, or have been,
all subject to clairaudience, or to some of its spiritual corre¬
latives. Scrutator.
AN EXAMPLE OF SPIRIT-POWER.
BY THE KEV. THOS. COLLEY, LATE OF THE KOYAL NAVY.
The most wonderful manifestation of spirit power I ever
witnessed has occurred within three hours of the time I
write.
Passing through London with my wife, on our way into
Warwickshire, from Italy, I found that Dr. Monck, that
prince of mediums, and much misrepresented and persecuted
man, was in town, and we paid him an unpremeditated and
unexpected visit. Having been lately much abroad, I had
not seen him for a year and eight months. A little short
of that time I lent him a large scrap-book of newspaper
cuttings. This he promised to return in a few days; but on
my writing for it after the lapse of a month, I was annoyed
to find that he had lost it, or rather that his control,
“ Samuel,” purposely, as was said, had taken it away, but
intended in due time to return it. I, however, had long
given up hopes of ever seeing it again, since the breaking
up of Dr. Monck’s home and the general upset of his affairs
through his unjust imprisonment, to say nothing of the
detention of many of his things still withheld from him,
rendered it improbable I should ever again possess it.
Sore on the matter of my loss even till this afternoon, on
my casual meeting with Dr. Monck for the first time after
the book’s disappearance, we sat at tea, and were talking
about it. “ Samuel,” in occasional control, and by raps,
declared that it was even there in the strange house in which
we were sitting, a hundred and twenty miles from the place
to which I sent it, and eighty miles from the place from
which it was sent. Moderately marvelling at this state¬
ment, in consequence of much experience in the past of
“ Samuel’s ” ways, and because of my ancient and still
unshaken and unabated confidence in his accomplishing
things u impossible,” but yet true, I earnestly begged that
he would from some quarter of the universe of matter or
spirit, forthwith return the lost volume to its rightful owner.
My name was written on the first page, with a request,
appended at the time of lending it (prophetically as it seems,
of its truant wanderings, sudden falling out of sight, and
strange recovery), that in case of its getting lost the owner
would esteem it a favour if the finder would kindly send it
to the address given.
A friend who was with us up till this time had now to
leave, and Dr. Monck went to see the lady downstairs. I,
in his absence, took the opportunity most diligently to search
the scantily-furnished drawing-room, to ascertain if Samuel
had already brought the book and secreted it anywhere near.
People having no knowledge of the wonders of spirit-power
may say, if they like, that I did this to see if the medium
had already stowed it away to sensationally produce it at the
proper moment; they must be pleased not to forget that my
visit to Dr. Monck was sudden and unpremeditated; he did
not know of my being in England, and it is rather a stretch
of fancy to suppose that he would have kept a large scrap¬
book by him through all his troubles and sad experiences
for the truth’s sake, ready to humbug me with on the chance of
my turning up some day from some quarter of the world about
which I have been roaming pretty extensively of late. People
who can prefer such improbabilities to the manifold attested
facts of Spiritualism are fearfully and wonderfully made, and
I pen not this record for such, but for men of some mentality,
and logic, and mind of proper balance.
When Dr. Monck returned from seeing our friend to the
street door, we resumed our tea and talk, and Samuel, by
raps, promised to return the lost volume. Then suddenly
he controlled his medium, and said, “ Ah! my friend, how
about the poetry you read at sea about the funny one-horse
>| gig?” alluding to a matter I had never mentioned to any
)| one; it related to my recitation, on the night of Nov. 29th
| of last year, in the Red'Sea, to the officers, naval and mili-
?! tary, and troops and crew, of Wendell Holmes’ comic verses
! | concerning the deacon’s “ One-hoss shay.” I was then acting
\\\ chaplain of H.M.S. Malabar. My laughter with Samuel about
|) | this, and the comical way in which he told me of circumstances
K| connected with it—which neither the medium nor any living
m mortal save myself in any possible way could have known—
| >] suddenly awoke Dr. Monck from his momentary trance, and
jj| then I had to tell him and my wife, for the first time, the
uj cause of our merriment.
j|j But again Dr. Monck, while finishing his tea, was anew
| | controlled, and Samuel spoke with earnestness and emphasis,
ii saying that the marvel of the restoration of the book should
!j be instant, then and there. His medium was shaken with
| | convulsive energy. I threw my arms round him to hold him
i up, and no bulky volume could have been secreted on his
\)\ person, or by this action I should instantly have detected it.
||f And now, strongly moved, Samuel said, 4< It is coming! it
| is coming ! but I cannot bring it to you in the room. Run
|| out. Quick! quick!” I loosed the medium, who fell stag-
! (| gering to the wall, and, with my wife, ran out of the drawing-
|)| room, shutting the door behind us, and instantly, as we got
| ! on the landing, the long-lost book met us there while we
|l| were alone; it fell, as it seemed, from the ceiling, and in
| | amazement I caught it as it fell, ere it had reached the
i | ground. Mark ! the door was shut; the distance from the
||| corner where the medium was left entranced to the outside
i j j landing where the book thus mysteriously came into my hands
| || (the afternoon sun shining on it as it came), is overfive-and-
! I twenty feet. Moreover, the front cover of the book was
i i| thick with dust, as from long standing on some dusty book-
| |j shelf, the which (with my finger-marks only in carrying it)
| | has this evening been seen by the assembled members of the
|>| British National Association of Spiritualists, meeting to
| | welcome the Baron and Baroness von Yay.
111 August 10th, 1877.  
I I REMARKABLE CLAIRVOYANCE.
I (| To the Editor of the “ American Spiritual Magazine."
!) j Sib,—I have a married daughter living in Oakland, California, who
I (i always has been mediumistic, though, for the want of opportunity and
iji practice, undeveloped as a practical and reliable medium. Some time
j rj since I received from her the following postscript to a letter of family
j (; correspondence, which I will explain in the sequel:
111 I forgot to tell you that I have a friend hare who is a clairvoyant. The
j (| other day she went asleep while sitting beside me on the sofa, with my hand
S) j in hers. It was the first time I ever saw anything of the kind, and you may
!■ > | rest assured it made me feel strange when she described my whole life, telling
| (i me things I had long ago forgotten. She told me all about my sea voyages
| u between New York and California; also about my undeveloped infant. How
j) i strange! for she knew nothing about me, or these events in my life, nor
i )\ even my name, only as Mrs. Wychoff.
!) | While she was asleep (entranced) I happened to think that I had your letter
I (j in my pocket. I placed it in her hand, and asked, “ Can you tell me anything
! (i about the person who wrote this letter ? ” She immediately described your
| )| person. At my request she examined your vital organism, and said she could
|) I not see any organic disease, excepting something the matter with one of the
I } i tubes in one of your lungs, which at one time in your life had caused you to
I \ | lose your speech for' a certain length of time.
| (j She said you were ready to enter the spirit world, but that it was not best;
I; | that you had many years to spend in earth life yet.
i )| She said she saw a female with you, but she was coming to the spirit world
i (i first.
! 0 She said there was a strong mesmeric current between you and me, and
| )j asked me to promise that I would never change. I promised, God helping me,
Hj I never would.
• (j After talking about an hour, she suddenly grasped both mj hands in hers,
j v and whispered, “ Maggie ! Maggie 1 Maggie ! ” and kissed my hands, and then
j)| swooned away. This amazed me, as I knew she never heard me called by
|) j that name. I became frightened, and began to rub her, when she came to
! (i herself.
| Si She then told me that, as consciousness returned, she had a vision, in which
i >| she saw a house with dormer windows, and an old gentleman sitting by the
i )| door. I don’t know of any of our friends who live in such a house, except
j t j Aunt Margaret. The whole thing was very strange to me. Please tell mo
| (I what you think of it.
j (j At the time this scene occurred in Oakland, California, I resided in a
|)| country house, one mile from Oxford, Butler county, Ohio, about 3,000
!>j miles from the former place. My daughter had never seen that house,
j(j nor did she know at that time where, or in what kind of house I lived,
j (i But the house exactly corresponds with the one the medium saw in her
!|| vision, and my usual place for enjoying the summer breezes was
j (I beside the door in the yard, in company with my wife, among her
| | flowers.
m But the most remarkable feature in this unaccountable occurrence
!(' was her allusion to my lung difficulty, and her description of the
|f| particulars in the case. She stated the facts as they occurred mors
78
August 17, 1877.
than half a century ago, and of which my daughter knew nothing, and
I had myself long ago forgotten. In the winter of 1824—25, 1 slept by
a broken window in wet clothes, caught cold, and lost my speech for a
period of two weeks, when I coughed up coagulated mucus, or false
tubes from my lungs, in sections of several inches in length, nearly
suffocating me in the effort. For many years afterward—even to the
present time, on making violent exertions, I experienced a distressing
suffocating sensation in my left lung.
Another remarkable incident in this narrative, is that of the medium
suddenly grasping my daughter’s hands in hers, and whispering the
name “Maggie! Maggie! Maggie!” My, daughter was named
“Margaret Ella” in childhood, but has not been called by her first
name since she arrived at womanhood, except by myself and wife. We
have always, and do still call her “Maggie.” Is it not remarkable that
this strange lady-medium, who had never heard her called by that
name, should, in connection with her clairvoyant vision of our persons
and our home, exclaim “ Maggie ! Maggie ! Maggie !” Or was it I,
then in rapport with my daughter through the medium, who whispered
the familiar name, seldom, if ever, repeated by any person except
myself and wife ? If this is at all possible, it is rendered probable By
the fact alluded to by the medium : that there is, and always has been
a “ strong mesmeric current ” between myself and that daughter.
Can any of your readers give a philosophical explanation of the fore¬
going occult facts and circumstances ? Did the medium actually visit,
in spirit, my home, three thousand miles distant from where her body
was lying in trance, examine my physical organism, and report its con¬
dition, and describe the house I lived in to my daughter ? That this
was done in some way is certain; now who can .decide the modus
operandi f D. Winder.
Oxford, Ohio.
SPIRITUALISM AND CONJURORS.
BY ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE.
A short time since there was a note in The Spiritualist to
the effect that Dr. Lynn was exhibiting “ burlesques of
spiritual phenomena at the Aquarium.’’ From Dr. Lynn’s
antecedents it seemed probable that this should be so, but
probabilities are not facts. From what a friend informed me
I had my doubts, and I therefore visited the Aquarium a
few days back, and, with four other gentlemen, went on the
stage to take part in the seance. Your readers must be told
that Dr. Lynn is not the performer, but a gentleman who is
introduced as “ a medium—a real mediumand I must
say I believe him to be one. We first sat at a table—a very
common and undoubtedly genuine table, which I turned over
and examined, and after about four minutes’ sitting this
table rose up full two feet from the floor, and floated
horizontally round the stage twice, resisting my efforts to stop
it. All our hands were on the table; it moved about rapidly
but somewhat irregularly ; and no wires or machinery had
anything to do with it. To me the motion was exactly
such as I have experienced, with a genuine medium,
but more powerful. Then followed the cabinet seance, the
u cabinet ” being a baize curtain supported by four poles on
a carpet-covered platform, raised about a foot above the
stage, and having no connection with it. We examined it
thoroughly, and it was absolutely above suspicion. The .
medium was tied, hands and feet, in the usual way in a I
chair, by two gentlemen, and almost all the phenomena j
which characterised the Davenports’ performance were here !
reproduced, but with even greater rapidity. At the very |
same instant that the curtain was drawn, hands appeared 11
over the top, and the moment they descended the curtain j
was drawn back, and we found the medium with feet and j (
hands tied exactly as before. This was repeated in various |j
ways half a dozen times. Then, for an instant, three figures | )|
appeared in the cabinet robed in white from head to foot, J|j
and the next instant they disappeared, the medium being |]
found tied as before, with no possibility of concealing the ||
white robes, to say nothing of the figures which were there. h|
The medium’s coat was also removed and afterwards put on m
again, his hands remaining tied, and one of the spectators who |)!
entered the cabinet had his coat-sleeves turned inside out, and k|
the coat put on him again without his being able to give m
any account of how it was done. • $
Now, it seems to me that a very bad effect will be pro- m
duced by telling the public that this is all imposture; for |)|
they will naturally say, u We see no difference between this m
performance and those which you tell us are real: if this j(j
is imposture, then all your alleged spiritual manifestations jjj
are imposture also.” I trust that you, Mr. Editor, or some of |||
your readers, who have had more experience of mediums
than I have had? will visit the Aquarium theatre and tell us III
your impressions after going on the stage; and if you think
it is all juggling, point out exactly where the difference lies
between it and mediumistic phenomena. I must also add,
that when I was there Dr. Lynn said nothing against Spirit¬
ualists or Spiritualism. Of course, he made his usual fun,
and referred to the risk of prosecution if he said it was all
done by spirits—a remark which his audience took as an
excellent joke, but which might have another meaning.
There have been many cases in which genuine clairvoyance
has been brought before the public as conjuring; and now
that the exhibition of anything claimed to be spiritual mani¬
festations is punished by the strong arm of the law, it is to
be expected that some physical mediums will engage them¬
selves to professors of legerdemain in order to secure peace
and safety. If the phenomena I have described are produced
by conjuring, it is clear that Dr. Lynn, who is a master of
the art, could do it himself and thereby add to his reputation ;
but he does not, and, as I venture to think, cannot do so.,
and until some one up to the tricks of conjurors really shows
# how it is done,” I shall continue to hold the opinion that
we have here a case of genuine mediumship.
London, August lOth, 1877.
Was De Quincey a Spiritualist P—The following is an extract from
Dr. Mackay’s Forty Years' Recollections:—“ The last time I saw him
(De Quincey) was in the streets of Glasgow, when I suddenly came
upon him at a turning. * I knew I should meet you,’ he said. ‘ Three
streets distant 1 was mysteriously aware that you were somewhere in
the neighbourhood, and that our two orbs were approaching each other.
Have you never experienced such a presentiment, or thought of some
one in a sudden and inexplicable manner, whom you had no particular
reason to think about, a person who, for all you knew to the contrary,
might be a thousand miles away, and come across him unexpectedly in
the streets a few minutes afterwards?’ I owned that such a circum¬
stance had happened to me more than once, and that in the present
instance I had been thinking of him in the street some time before I met
him. If I had been in haste to keep an appointment this admission
would have been unlucky, but I was in no particular hurry, and had to
stand and listen at the street corner while he poured forth a full stream
of poetical and philosophic talk in explanation of what he called the
possibility of spirit meeting with spirit before body met body. Like the
Ancient Mariner with the wedding guest, in Coleridge’s poem, the
opium eater ‘ fixed me with his glittering eye,’ while in eloquent
language he expressed his belief that every human being was sur¬
rounded by a spiritual atmosphere ; that the body was but the nucleus
of a comet, and that the soul surrounded it with a light unseen by the
physical eye; that the volume of this luminous atmosphere was in pro¬
portion to the intellect, and that the light thus cast before him into
space, by a man of genius, was vastly greater than that projected by the
dull ordinary man or woman ; and that the atmosphere which enveloped
the fool was so slight as scarcely to be considered an atmosphere at all.
Thus, he said, our atmospheres had met and ‘ mingled ’ that morning
before we knew that we were near each other, and had communicated
to each of us, by means of an apparently spontaneous thought, the in¬
telligence that we were approaching, and should shortly meet.”
Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Fletcher at Dalston.—On Thursday evening
last week, the 9th inst., a reception was given by the Dalston Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, at their Rooms, to Mr. and Mrs. J. W.
Fletcher, of Boston, U.S.A. Among the company present on the
occasion were Mrs. Corner, the Misses Comer, Mr. and Mrs. Henry
Cook, Miss Cook, Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr. Thos. Blyton, Mrs. C. Bradley,
Mr. T. Allsop, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. J. Rouse, Mr. R. A. March, Miss
Emily Thomson, Miss Jennie Pope, Mr. T. Wilks, Mr. J. Dawbarn, Mr.
W. H. Atkins, Mr. C. F. Russell, Mr. Edwin Dottridge, Mrs. Marianne
Nokes, Madame Isabel de Steiger, Mr. A. E. Lovell, Mr. M. Pardo, and
others. The chair was taken by Mr. G. R. Tapp, who, in the course of
his introductory remarks, said that several present had had good proofs
of the value of Mr. Fletcher’s gifts, and the reputation of Mrs.
Fletcher had reached them from the United States. The form of
mediumship cultivated by Mr. Fletcher was a particularly valuable one,
and was comparatively rare, or not fully developed among mediums in
this country. It was needed more than any other in the present con¬
dition of Spiritualistic science, as it afforded demonstration of the fact
of immortality. Therefore they welcomed the presence of such fellow-
workers among them. The large meeting showed incontestably that
notwithstanding recent prosecutions, and the determined attempts of
bigoted or prejudiced persons to stop free inquiry into the most
important subject that could occupy the mind of man, the interest of the
members of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism in
matters psychological was unabated. Spiritualism, with all its compli¬
cations and perplexities, with all its adversities and triumphs, was as
immortal as the souls of those who started its phenomena, and any
attempt to crush it or stop its progress would only end in causing its
real friends to come closer together.—In the course of the evening Mr.
and Mrs. Fletcher and several members addressed the meeting, while
towards the close Mr. Fletcher was controlled by “Winnona,” who
terminated the proceedings after giving some messages to a few members
present. On the motion of Mr. Thomas Blyton, seconded by Mr. R. A.
March, a unanimous vote of thanks was accorded to Mr. and Mrs,
Fletcher for their visit.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 17, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 79
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. | j
RECEPTION OP THE BARON AND BARONESS VON VAT.
Last Friday night, a special conversazione -was held at the Rooms of j j i
the National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, jji
London, to welcome the Baron and Baroness von Vay, of Hungary, who j (!
are so well known to our readers for their outspoken advocacy of jji
the truths of Spiritualism. The esteem in which they were held was |)i
evinced by the circumstance that although many Spiritualists are out !|j
of town at this time of year, the Rooms, as the evening advanced, ijj
became quite full. Among the friends present were Mr. Alexander \\\
Calder, President of the National Association of Spiritualists; Mr. and Ki
Mrs. Alfred Russel Wallace; Captain Rolleston; Mr. C. C. Massey; \)\
Mr. and Mrs. William Tebb; Mr. F. W. Percival; Mr. J. N. T. |) j
Martheze ; Dr. Carter Blake and Mrs. Blake ; Mrs. Ellis; Mrs, and |\|
Miss Cooper; Captain John James; Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Gales jj
Forster, of the United States; Dr. George Wyld; Mr. Benjamin ft j
Coleman ; Miss Deekens; Mr. Thomas Shorter; Miss Shorter; Signor i |
Rondi; the Rev. Thomas Colley, late Chaplain to H.M.S. Malabar; |)|
Mrs. Colley ; Mr. Algernon Joy, M. Inst. C.E.; Mr. Frederick Colling- ju
wood, late secretary to the Anthropological Institute ; Mrs. Lowe, j j j
secretary to the Lunacy Law Reform Association; Mrs. Showers; Mrs. ||.
Hallock ; Herr Christian Reimers ; Miss Kislingbury; Mr. G. R. Tapp ; jji
Mrs. Fitz-Gerald; Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald; Miss Fitz- |j|
Gerald; Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Blyton ; Mrs, Henry Cook; the Misses j j i
Cook; the Misses Corner; Mr. Cornelius Pearson; Miss Houghton; Mrs. j j j
Nokes; Mr. Greene; Mr. J. W. Fletcher; Mr. C. E. Williams; Mr. |)|
Peele,R.A.; the Misses Burke; Mr. R. Linton; the Misses Rogers ; Miss k j
Withall; Mr. A. Glendinning; Mr. W. H. Harrison; and many others, jji
At the soirees of the National Association of Spiritualists most of the \) i
time is spent in social conversation, and but a brief portion of the jjj
evening to speeches. At eight o’clock Mr. Calder, the President, rose ij i
and said:— j/j
Ladies and gentlemen,—From time to time there appear in our midst j j |
individuals more or less noted, who, far from being ashamed of j |
Spiritualism, glory in it. And why should they not ? They feel and jH
know it to be true ; there is a manifest superiority in spiritual life ; j |
and they believe that such life, if properly cultivated, is eminently fitted j j |
to check and control selfishness and other forms of materialism, jlj
Struck by the potent influence of a great reality, conscious of its j j
strength, purity, and goodness, and in no way surprised at its un- | |
popularity, they have the courage to record their testimony in its j j
favour. On the present occasion we are fortunate in having among us 1|
several valued friends—worthy representatives of our cause. The j j
Baron and Baroness von Way have long sustained a prominent position j i
in the field of Spiritualism. As the foundress and principal supporter j i
of the Spiritualist Society in Hungary, as a medium, as a writer, and !
as a healer, the Baroness von Yay has done much good work ; and her j |
efforts (ever loyally seconded by the Baron) merit our strongest j!
sympathy and consideration. (Applause.) They differ from us as to j |
reincarnation ; although their idaes of development may not resemble j!
ours, yet they are true Spiritualists, doing battle—perhaps under a j I
separate banner—but yet doing battle against our common foe, ma- j!
terialism. From America we have our distinguished friends Mr. and j i
Mrs. Thomas Gales Forster. Mr. Gales Forster is well known for his ij I
valuable contributions to our current literature. It is not improbable i j
that some of these friends may be induced to favour us with a few re- i I
marks on the position and prospects of Spiritualism in their respective j j |
countries. And now, on behalf of our Association, I greet these I j j
friends most cordially, and commend them severally to your kindest | j i
attention. (Applause.) (il
Mr. Benjamin Coleman said : I desire to endorse the expressions of |ji
welcome which our respected President has offered to the Baron and I j |
Baroness von Yay. This excellent couple have been known to me by jji
correspondence for several years past, and though differing from them j j j
on the theory of reincarnation—because, perhaps, I am incapable of j j j
understanding the depths of the philosophy which that belief inculcates jjj
—I nevertheless appreciate their high moral worth, and the active zeal ij j
which they have shown in spreading the great truth of spirit inter- Ijj
course. (Applause.) I admire and respect their philanthropic disin- jjj
terested labours on behalf of suffering humanity, by the exercise of jjj
their curative power, which I believe they possess in an eminent jjj
degree, and of which they make the most unselfish use. I am indeed [ j j
very happy to welcome the Baron and Baroness to England, and regret j j j
that they should have been obliged to visit us at a period of the year I j j
when so many sympathisers are absent from London. I also offer to j j
our American visitors a hearty welcome. Mr. Gales Forster has been ! j j
long known to me by his eloquent expositions of spiritual subjects. jjj
The Baroness von Yay, who rose amid loud and continued applause, jj j
said : Ladies and gentlemen,—I feel very much touched by the kindly jjj
welcome you have given to us, and as my husband is not versed in the j j
English language I return thanks to you on behalf of both of us, jji
although it is not the custom in Austria for ladies to speak in public, jj j
Here, however, we are not in public, but have met as friends who have i j j
long assembled beneath the banner of Spiritualism. I have much j j j
pleasure in presenting this Association with an account of a vision of jjj
mine just published; I was not in trance, but wide awake when I saw j j
what is herein described, and my spirits afterwards explained all j j |
that I beheld. They have sometimes told me beforehand about jjj
political events, and of circumstances relating to my sick friends, and j j i
their statements have afterwards proved to be wonderfully true. I )•
am not skilled in the English language, so thank you, Mr. President, j j
and all the friends here to-night. (Applause.) j j
MR. GALES FORSTER ON SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. Thomas Gales Forster, who was warmly received by the meet- Ij j
jng, said ;— UI
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen—Did you ever observe
in this beautiful land of yours, as the clouds of a summer’s
day are passing over, sweeping forest and field, village and stream, with
their blue shadows as they fly, one bright particular spot; some church
spire or cottage window, on which the sun’s rays seem to settle more
frequently, and linger longer, than on any other point in the entire land¬
scape ? Such a spot, in the moral and intellectual world, has Spiritualism
been to me, during the lapse of nearly twenty-seven years of earnest and
honest advocacy and investigation—a brilliant spot, reflecting continually
the glories of the inner life, and shedding a benign and healthful influence
over all things else in this otherwise dark and weary world. And to¬
night, after this long experience, Spiritualism, in comparison with all
antecedent and surrounding faiths, stands before my mind’s eye, like
unto a majestic column in a desert plain, rich in beauty, and in the
splendour of an indescribably grand architecture, immovable as ocean’s
rock, breasting successfully the wrath of every billow, and the storm of
every sky. In America, the fact that spirits can, and under proper con¬
ditions do, commune with mortals, has been unprecedented in its recep¬
tion. Faith in this glorious truth originated with us in the affections.
True, we now feel and know that philosophy teaches this great truth,
that science demonstrates it, that reason sanctions it, and that true
religion embraces it; but it was the longing of the soul after that which
had enlisted its sympathies and affections, and which we had been so
long told was silent for ever, at least in this world, that primarily esta¬
blished this faith. So that it has been truly said, that through the
longings of the heart Spiritualism has made such rapid strides, that
to-day, only twenty-nine years since its phenomenal inception, it is a
theme of general thought, subject alike to the ridicule of the thoughtless
and the reverence of the judicious. That it has called forth the former,
mainly, however, from a misconception of its facts, and a misapplication
of its tenets, need not be denied. But it likewise calls for reverence
from all earnest men and women, believers in the facts or not, who are
able to perceive that the human heart still clings to it, despite all
obloquy, as an incentive to virtue, and as a means of development.
Through its instrumentality the evidences of immortal life are in a
million of American homes to-night, and through its glorious inculca¬
tions, millions of American hearts are rejoicing with a most holy joy
And neither materialism on the one hand, nor sectarian bigotry on the
other, can mar what is to these hearts a divine revelation. Its
vitalising effect, as repeatedly declared and demonstrated in our midst,
has not been merely an external action, it has taken hold of man’s
highest nature, and what was enkindled in the heart has become the
life of the whole man. Therefore, if martyrs should be called for, I
believe that my country would be full of them, for that which is born
of the affections will live as long as the affections themselves shall live,
and we Spiritualists know, thank God, that human love is immortal.
But Spiritualism is not merely a theme appealing to the affections ; men
and women, reputed to be wise, judicious, and far-seeing, stand ready
with a reason for the faith that is in them. More of this class mark the
progress of the cause in America at the present time than any other.
The appeal to the heart has satisfied the judgment, and Spiritualism
claims to be able to satisfy the intellect of the scholar, the statesman,
and the jurist. Both science and philosophy are measuring it; and
what is more, it is growing broader and deeper, more exalted, and
more prolific of thought, the farther investigation is pursued from the
point of original inception. I sincerely believe that, when Jesus of
Nazareth said His disciples possessed that which the world could neither
give, nor take away, He but adverted to the principles which underlie the
faith of the Spiritualist of to-day—a faith, or rather demonstration,
which renders a man certain of his attainments, and conscious of his
possessions. In America, according to present and past theological
teachings, man is deemed a mere worm—religiously fit for nothing;
naturally fit only to be damned ! Spiritualism, however, looking upon
man as a creature of most important uses, and as a being of immortal
destinies, has assigned him a far more important niche in the grand
temple of existence. It teaches that man is the last of a long series of
steps in the material creation, that in his being are the latent elements
of all that he can attain to, either in the flesh or spirit; that he is
indeed the ultimate in the sphere of material conformation; and that in
his spiritual nature he is the prophecy of all that is to succeed the
experiences of time; that he stands, as it were, midway in a
j* Vast chain of being, which from God began—
Nature’s etherial, human, angel, man.”
Spiritualism with us, therefore, inculcates the rejection of all ecclesias¬
tical authority as plenary, either past or present; it enjoins the cherish¬
ing of a keen scepticism, and the ignoring of mere blind faith in regard
to all assumptions which appertain to the soul and its destinies, as long
as declaration is not accompanied by demonstration. Reasoning from
analogy, and from its facts, it declares that inspiration is universal, that
God is no respecter of persons, and, indeed, that the canon of revelation
is as fully open to-day as ever it was. It teaches that the individual
soul is normally and for ever the highest revelator of truth unto itself,
and that truth is seen by any man only through his own convictions.
In contradistinction to the doctrine of total depravity, it teaches
that all men and women are divine, from the nature of their
origin; united in one great family by being participants in
the same divine spirit; that just as surely as chemical
affinities unite and bind material particles, so, under proper develop¬
ment, moral affinities will eventually unite mankind in a universal
brotherhood; the establishment of which is the legitimate aspiration of
all true reform, since, in the widespread scope of its embrace, such a
brotherhood shall comprehend the loftiest and the lowliest, seraphs and
mortals, the denizens of earth and the dwellers in the summer land.
Spiritualism, therefore, we deem to be, in its fullest acceptation, suffi¬
ciently broad in its conceptions, and wide enough in the grasp of its
investigations, to comprehend, more or less distinctly, any principle of
80
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 17, 1877.
reform, in this or any other age, that is legitimately based upon the
fatherhood of G-od, the motherhood of nature, and the brotherhood of
the race. For myself, I believe Spiritualism to be—1. A science, upon
the authority, as declared by one of our ablest writers, of observed facts,
demonstrated truths, and inevitable deductions. 2. I believe Spirit¬
ualism to be a philosophy, in that it reasons from fundamental truths,
or first principles, to their legitimate and necessary sequences, upon
purely rational grounds. 3. I believe Spiritualism to be a religion, in
that it asserts the immortality and divinity of the race, and inculcates
love to God through love to man; whilst it aims at the salvation of man
from his sins, through his own aspirations and effort, rather than in his
sins, through the merits of another. There are certain propositions of
Spiritualism which in America are more or less generally deemed funda¬
mental:— 1. An Infinite Principle of Good in the universe, which, in
the exercise of Infinite Will, is unceasingly adding to all that has been
by perpetually transforming all that is. This power we gratefully and
reverently term God; and know no more. 2. The perpetuity of indi¬
vidual consciousness beyond the grave. 3. An ever-present conscious
intercourse with the angel world. 4. Eternal progress, not death, the
destiny of the race. In connection with these propositions, Spiritualism
further teaches that man, as I have said, is the result of all that has
gone before him; that he is a wonderful microcosm of the vast macro¬
cosm by which he is surrounded; that his physical body is but an
outside shell or covering, outwrought for and adapted to the uses and
pleasures of the earth-life alone—which, having been elaborated from
the rocks, will, after dissolution, decompose into its original elements;
but that the spirit, or soul, the divine principle within, which makes
the conscious man of thought, of feeling, and of angel-aspiration, will
live on in an endless pathway of wisdom, and in a boundless succession
of altitudes in love and happiness—his identity unchanged, his conscious
individuality preserved for ever, amid the infinite conditions of the land
of the beautiful, where—
“^Sceptred angels hold their residence.”
Thus, our glorious religion, through the law of eternal progress, is
“ weaving its woof of joy around the heart of despair, and winding its
warp in the storied temple of Immortality.” Born into the inner life
by an immediate resurrection from the body, through the process termed
Death, the disenthralled children of humanity, proportioned to indi¬
vidual effort and desire, soar around the concentric spheres of love and
wisdom, whilst their choral melodies reverberate amid the arches of the
sky, heart beats in unison with heart, and soul unites joyously with
soul, as the universe of mind is echoing with the symphonies of human
love, engendered through the fruition of human hope, and all those
broad plains
“ Where angels walk and seraphs are the wardens,”
bespeak continuously the grandeur and the glory of progressive and
still progressive thought. And thus Spiritualism has given to many an
earnest soul, indeed—
“ The golden key
Which opes the Palace of Eternity.”
Such, in brief, is Spiritualism, generally deemed to be, in my
country. But we have not been without our shadows likewise.
Hidden away in Oriental tradition, is an instructive fable of the
Amreeta Cup. This cup of divine wine, it is alleged, gave life
and immortality, excellence and bliss, beyond belief, to the pure
in heart; but to the evil-disposed who partook of it, it brought desola¬
tion, despair, and death. The allegory is truly applicable to the ex¬
periences of investigators in America. The divine beauties of Spirit¬
ualism have, indeed, penetrated deeply and healthfully into the hearts j!
of those who have honestly and earnestly sought for Truth; but decep- i)
tion and fraud only have been found by those who have entered into the j (
investigation, wickedly determined to see nothing but what their own i)
prejudices have already declared to have an existence. We have also j)
had our fanatics. But, is there any principle of deep, vitalising force, j j
that has not, at some time, and in some manner, engendered fanaticism ? j j
We have, therefore, consoled ourselves with the reflection that the cause U
which is not clothed with sufficient brilliancy and beauty to arouse some j j
natures into fanaticism, need scarcely be expected to have intrinsic j)
merit enough to justify martyrdom in others. We have felt, too, in ij
America, and still feel—as doubtless Spiritualists everywhere have felt, \\
that never since the dawning of that beautiful star that is said to have I)
led the Magi of the East upon an unknown journey to the stables of Beth- j (
lehem, has there existed a cause that has been so sadly misunderstood, j (
or so grossly misrepresented, as have been the facts and the philosophy ; >
of Spiritualism. Nevertheless, as I have said, its reception has been |
unprecedented; and through the aid of this glorious system very many j {
thoughtful minds are beginning to realise that the present age has more j)
of Spiritual Light than has ever before been vouchsafed to man—and, j
too, that mankind have larger needs and greater spiritual capacities, i
wherein to absorb this light. On every hand are to be seen the evi- j)
dences of intellectual and spiritual expansion and elevation, declaring, !
trumpet-tongued, that man can never stand in the future where he has j
stood in the past. The angels, to-day, are our ministers, from whom we
are learning that God is as near to the soul as matter to the sense; and (
Nature has become the grand cathedral of our devotions—a Cathedral,
“ Boundless as our wonder— <
Whose quenchless lamps the sun and moon supply—
Its choir the wind and waves, its organ thunder; j j
Its dome the sky.” ! (
And too, even the opponents of our cause are rapidly recognising the j j [
fact that Spiritualism has charms which cannot be ignored. In vain in
does Atheism on the one hand, and sectarian fanaticism on the other, cry j j j
out that our facts are a delusion, and that our theories are unintelligible j j j
nonsense. Mankind will look and listen, despite themselves. As the | |
ancien t mariner is said to have forced the bridal guests to listen to his wild j (j
mysterious song, so Spiritualism, as it were, seems to have commanded u.l
; 11 the universe to stand still, and give attention to its phenomena and the
f|| deductions drawn therefrom, which charm, in spite of their allege*^
||i obscurity. The spirit of inquiry, and the bold, free school of thought
m engendered by Spiritualism, are spreading like one of our wild prairie
I / i fires ; and it is beginning to be perceived that neither municipal enact-
i(| ments, legislative statutes, ecclesiastical decrees, nor judicial decisions,
I) | can stay the progress of human thought, or check the aspirations of the
j (i human soul. May we all more fully appreciate the age in which we
m live, together with the glorious work evidently assigned us, of co-
! /1 operating with the angels, in lifting the light of Divine Truth above the
| (| mere plain of dogmatism, and in inaugurating it upon the altar of the
U\ human heart. This is the mission, it seems to me, my friends, that is
j)| before us all, of whatever land—not as bigots, not as sectarians, but as
Kj earnest humanitarians, demonstrating by our lives, the grandeur, the
j j j beauty, and the beatifying results of the precious truths we profess. And
|) j may we all prove worthy of the privilege of being accounted co-workers
! (| with the white-winged messengers of our Father’s love. I thank you for
iji your courteous attention. (Applause.)
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
|) | The Rev. Thomas Colley: In passing through London on my way
(i from Naples I could not resist the temptation of staying here to have
| j: the pleasure of seeing the Baron and Baroness von Vay, Mr. Gales
I Forster, and other friends at this meeting. I hope that in due time I
] may be more permanently settled in London, and work more heartily in
the cause than I do in distant parts. Although my position as a clergy¬
man is somewhat against the more prominent part I should like to take
in Spiritualism, as I do not wish to compromise those among whom I
labour, still, I think I can justify my position in the Church, as a
| clergyman who possesses what he believes to be a certain amount of
| light, which he does not altogther give out. I think I am justified in
i withholding that excessive amount of light which might be more
i injurious than beneficial. Still, heart and soul I am with the movement
| (applause), and I hope that more liberal days will yet dawn, when
| judicial enactments and legal prosecutions will be things of the past,
and when everybody will feel ashamed that in the nineteenth century
| persecution was possible for such views as Spiritualists hold. All
j should wish Spiritualism to be true as a matter of poetry, but, better
iti still, it is actually true as a matter of fact. (Applause.)
I i Mr. T. Shorter stated that Mr. Gales Forster had had remarkable ex-
)! periences in relation to physical manifestations.
i j Mr. Gales Forster said that Mr. Colley’s utterances formed a strong
| j j contrast to those he had heard from ministers in America; with the
) | exception of a few Episcopalians in the United States, the clergy there
(j overwhelmed Spiritualism with abuse.
The business proceedings of the evening then closed.
I The photographs sent by the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan from Paris were
on view, and attracted much critical attention; they resemble pictures
of sculptured heads or busts; the evidence is strong that the more or
| less solid surface on which they were formed was withdrawn in a few
seconds from the interior by spirit power.
SPIRITUALISM IN EDINBURGH.
Mr. J. T. Rhodes writes:—
Spiritualism in Edinburgh has as yet made but little progress, whether
on account of the prevalent hard Calvinistic theology, or the want of
pioneers in the movement, or the want of that independence which places
men above all consideration of what their neighbours will say, is hard
to determine. Yet looking at the past history of Scotland, and the
general assertion that its inhabitants are a “ superstitious ” people,
supposed to be more or less gifted with second sight and other psycho¬
logical powers, one would naturally suppose that it would afford a fair
field for the development of the more modern phenomena. A few
individuals in Edinburgh are investigating, and Miss Fairlamb has
lately given a series of more or less successful seances; Mr. Brown, of
Howden-le-Weir, has also been giving a number of seances, most of
which have been for development; but I know of no medium who has
yet been developed here, or through whom physical manifestations are
likely to occur so as to give the movement an impetus in the modern
Athens. On looking over the Traditions of Edinburgh, by Robert
Chambers, I find many stories of a Spiritualistic character. It is there
related how “ Grace, Countess of Aboyne and Moray, in her early youth
consulted a celebrated fortune-teller inhabiting an obscure close in
Edinburgh. The sybil predicted that she would become the wife of two
earls, and how many children she was to bear, but withal assured her
that when she should see a new coach of a certain colour driven up to
the door as belonging to herself, her hearse must speedily follow. Many
years afterwards Lord Moray, who was not aware of this prediction,
resolved to surprise his wife with the present of a new equipage; but
when Lady Moray beheld from a window a carriage of the ominous
colour arrive at the door of Tarnaway, and heard that it was her
own property, she sank down, exclaiming she was a dead woman, and
actually expired a short time after, November 17th, 1738.” Another
story is that of the Countess of Stair. In a short alley leading from the
Lawnmarket, and called Lady Stair’s Close, is a substantial old mansion,
and in a sculptured stone over the doorway a small coat armorial, with
the initials W. G. and G. S., the date 1622, and the legend, “ Fear the
Lord, and depart from evil.” This was the last residence of a lady con¬
spicuous in Scottish society in the early part of the last century, the
widow of the celebrated commander and diplomatist, John, Earl of Stair.
Her ladyship’s first adventure in matrimony led to a series of cir¬
cumstances of a marvellous nature, and the cruelty of Lord Primrose
was too much for her; she eventually left him, and sought protection in
the house of Lord Primrose’s mother, which being extended reconciliation
was sought in vain, and Lord Primrose went abroad. During his
absence a foreign conjuror came to Edinburgh, professing, among other
August 17, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
wonderful accomplishments, to be able to inform any person of the
present condition or situation of any other person, at whatever distance, i
in whom the applicant might be interested. Lady Primrose, with a |
female friend, disguised, one night visited the wise man in Canongate i
for the purpose of inquiring regarding the movements of her husband, of j
whom she had not heard of for a considerable time. It is related that
the conjuror led her to a large mirror, in which she distinctly perceived ]
the interior of a church, with a marriage arranged near the altar; to
her astonishment she recognised her husband as the shadowy bride¬
groom. The magical scene was not exactly like a picture; it admitted
of addition and progress of action. As the lady gazed the ceremony j
seemed to proceed, and another personage appears on the scene whom |
she recognises as her brother, who draws his sword, rushes up to the I
bridegroom, who prepares to defend himself. The whole scene became j
tumultous, indistinct, and soon after vanished away.
When Lady Primrose reached home she wrote a minute narrative of
the whole transaction, to which she appended the day of the month on
which she had seen the mysterious vision. This she sealed up in the
presence of a witness. Soon afterwards her brother returned from his
travels and came to visit her, and on closely questioning him concerning
his wanderings, and if he had happened to see or hear anything of Lord
Primrose, it was found that his statements corroborated her vision. This
caused her to faint, and having been informed of the date of the cir¬
cumstance related by her brother, she took a key out of her pocket,
requested her brother to go to her chamber and fetch a sealed packet,
which on being opened showed that the shadowy representation of her
husband’s abortive nuptials took place on the very evening they were
transacted in reality.
One of the houses near the head of the Canongate tradition points
to in connection with a wild story related in the notes to Rokeby, which
sets forth how a divine of singular sanctity was called up at midnight to
pray with a person at the point of death. He was put into a sedan
chair, blindfolded, and compliance with the request was enforced with a
cocked pistol. He was conveyed into a remote portion of the town, and
introduced into a bedroom, where he found a lady newly delivered of an
infant; he was commanded to say such prayers as were fitting for a
person not expected to survive a mortal disorder. The task over, as he
was conducted down stairs he heard the report of a pistol, and he was
warned that the least allusion to the affair would cost him his life. He
was awakened in the morning by his servant informing him that a fire
of uncommon fury had broken out near the head of the Canongate,
with the shocking addition that the daughter of the proprietor, a young
lady eminent for her beauty and accomplishments, had perished in the
flames. The clergyman had his suspicions, but as the deed was done,
to have made the particulars public would have availed nothing. Time
wore away, however, and with it its terrors. He became unhappy at
being the solitary depositary of this fearful mystery, and mentioned it
to some of his brethren, so the anecdote acquired a sort of publicity.
The divine, however, had been long dead, when a fire broke out again
on the very same spot upon which the house had formerly stood; when
the flames" were at their height, the tumult which usually attends such
a scene was suddenly suspended by an unexpected apparition. A
beautiful figure in a night-dress, extremely rich, but at least half a
century old, appeared in the very midst of the fire, and uttered these
tremendous words in her vernacular idiom, “ Anes burned, twice burned,
and the third time I’ll scare you all! ”
The belief in this story was so strong that on a fire breaking out, and
seeming to approach the fatal spot, much anxiety was testified lest the
apparition should make good her denunciation.
Other similar stories are related in the work quoted from, notably one
of “ Major Weir,” too long to insert here. But apart from extraordinary
apparitions of him after death, and the haunted house stories, this
Major Weir had a magic staff, and old crones will seriously tell you how
it could run on a message to a shop for any article its proprietor wanted,
how it could answer the door when any one called upon its master, and
how it used to be seen running before him as he walked down the Lawn-
market. Putting aside all these statements as greatly exaggerated, it is
possible that a few good physical manifestations in the light, will show
that all old stories are not necessarily “ old wives’ fables,’’ and I see no
reason why Edinburgh itself should not try to evolve a few physical
phenomena as Glasgow has done.
Miss Kislingbury requests that all letters on the business of the
National Association of Spiritualists may be addressed during the next
two months to “ The Secretary, National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, London,” and not to her by name, because she
will be absent in the United States.
Mr. Robert Dale Owen’s Children.—His children are Julian Dale
Owen, a merchant in New Harmony; Ernest Dale Owen, lawyer in
Marquette, Mich., and his daughter, Miss Rosalind Dale Owen. His
eldest daughter married Dr. Cooper, of Posey County, and died in 1869,
or thereabouts. Another child died when an infant. He left but one
brother living, Professor Richard Owen, of the Chair of Natural Science
in the State University of Indiana. Like his father, Mr. Owen named
all his children Dale, in memory of an ancestor.
Scientific Priestcraft.—In English cities and towns the minister of
religion has been tamed; so many weapons are turned against him
when he obtrudes his office in a dictatory manner that, as a rule, there
is no more quiet and modest member of society than the urbane clergy¬
man. But the overbearing minister of nature, who snaps you with
“ unphilosophical, unscientific,” as the clergyman once frightened you
with “ infidel,” is still a recognised member of society, wants taming,
and will get it. He wears the priest’s cast-off clothes to escape detec¬
tion. The better sort of philosophers would gladly set him to square
the circle.—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
81
“ WE ARE WISER THAN WE KNOW.”
Thou who in the noontime brightness
See’st a shadow undefined,
Hear’st a voice that, indistinctly,
Whispers caution to my mind;
Thou who hast a vague foreboding
That a peril may be near,
Even when Nature smiles around thee,
And thy conscience holds thee clear ;
Trust the warning, look before thee,
Angels may the mirror show,
Dimly still, but sent to guide thee ;
We are wiser than we know !
Countless chords of heavenly music,
Struck ere earthly time began,
Vibrate in immortal concord
To the answering soul of man ;
Countless rays of heavenly glory
Shine through spirit pent in clay—
On the wise men at their labours,
On the children at their play.
Man has gazed on heavenly secrets,
Sunned himself in heavenly glow,
Seen the glory, heard the music,
We are wiser than we know !
From Charles Mackay's Poems.
(Eotresponnence.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes expressopinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned
copies should be keptby thewriters.']
SPIRITUALISM IN OXFORD.
Sir,—Your readers may be interested to learn that Mr. 'Williams
paid us a visit in Oxford some time ago. A party of eight assembled
in my rooms in the evening to meet him. The manifestations, though
not of the most powerful kind, were very striking to those who were
fresh to the subject. The seance is very likely to create some interest
in Oxford. Mr. Williams good-naturedly submitted to being searched
to the skin by my brother and myself before we commenced sitting.
And as he afterwards slept in a room opening into that occupied by
ourselves we had ample opportunities for detecting his electrical
apparatus, which we nevertheless failed to do.
St. George Stock.
ASTROLOGY : DESTINY versus PRAYER.
Sir,—It is a question that has often puzzled me, whether it be possible
by means of astrology to predict the future of a man, and if so, what is
the relationship of such facts with prayer and Divine mercy ? It seemed
to me that, supposing astrology to predict for a man an unhappy or
unlucky life, and that there be truth in astrology, then prayer can be of
no avail, and Divine mercy is not comprehensible to man. If a good
man, who believes in and relies upon prayer, is nevertheless doomed by
the Divine will—as revealed by the astrologer—to a life of undeserved
unhappiness, then all motive for prayer ceases, and nothing remains but
blind submission to fate.
I submitted a question on this subject to the guides of a well-known
writing medium, Mrs. Woodforde, who sent a reply which may interest
your readers:—
“ There is no such thing possible. Astrology is a false science—a
most ingeniously constructed device of men to discover how their lives
are to be passed. It is higher wisdom for a man to believe that which
is &fact—that he is the maker of his own destiny. Swayed by such a
belief, a man is stimulated to the highest and noblest endeavours.
Having achieved the best he can, he may remain in blessed igaorance
of star-ruling, or if he knows of it, may laugh at it. A man makes his
own destiny as he goes.
“ The very fact of a man knowing all that is to befall him would
prevent his praying at all: he would suppose it impossible to alter
destiny. If an evil destiny, he would sink under it in despair. If happy,
he would rush forward to obtain it, thanking no one.”
In the little work I published some time ago, I had obtained similar
thoughts to the above, but circumstances having made me rather
sceptical ou the subject, I have been induced to seek an explanation
from another hand. If any of your readers have any facts which throw
light on the question of Prayer versus Destiny, it would be interesting
to have them published. “ Life Beyond the Grave.”
August 10th, 1877.
MATERIALISATION OF SPIRIT HEADS.—NO. VIII.
Sir,—Aug. 7.—Have only received to-day photographs of the bust of
Glaucus. They are beautiful, but yet do not produce all the peculiar
effect and charm of the original. Photography works through lights and
shadows, cast on a flat surface, and often hardens the faces of which the
eye sees all the soft contours in a different way. When you look at
them, bear in mind that all that copious wealth of short Roman curls,
surmounting that youthful, while mature face, is always shown to us in
the materialisations of Glaucus entirely white. I presume it must be
for the purpose of symbolising the old age, which to the eye is contra¬
dicted by the face. When seen in the cabinet Glaucus looks old, when
by John King’s light sometimes old, sometimes youthful, as in this bust,
but always with white hair. The eyes present a circle, with a point in
the middle, to indicate the iris and pupil, as ancient busts sometimes do.
82
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 17, 1877.
The Count at first supposed that this might have been added, by the
plasterer, to the cast. But he denied it, and the corresponding fragment
of the mould showed that it existed in relief there too. John King told
us the next day that Glaucus had put it there in materialising, for the
dipping, “ to make it look more natural''1 In the photograph of the
cast of the mould you will observe an indentation at the end of the nose.
This represents a blow or collision of the soft hot stuff with the edge
of the cold-water pan when the Count let the mould down into it. The
right shoulder certainly seems to be abnormally raised and swelled. It
looks as though the materialisation (a hasty process, as we are told),
must have been carelessly made at that unimportant outlying part.
We have not yet received from Russia the photographs of the bust of
Alexandrine.
Aug. 12.—No fourth mould yet to report. The “ weather ” has not
yet been favourable, according to J. K. That is to say, the electrical
condition of the atmosphere. He says there must be neither too much
nor too little electricity in the air; and that there must be a quantity in
proper relation to the season, that is, to the temperature, and that the
quantity which would afford the favourable condition at one tempera¬
ture would not be the suitable quantity at another. I think we must
get up a tabulated system of meteorological observations to see if any
sort of law can be found between the state of the atmosphere and the
degree of “ the power.” But this will not be easy, inasmuch as the
physical and psychical condition of the medium also constitute
factors in the case.
We were to have tried for the bust of our pretty little “ Carmita ?
yesterday (sister of the Countess), but on the day before John King said
there was no use in going to the trouble of heating the paraffin. To¬
day he thinks we can try on Tuesday evening (14th), but will be able
to speak more confidently to-morrow. “Angela” has promised a
mould of her hand and arm.
By the way, the proportion of wax employed is ten (10) per cent., not 2.
No news yet from Russia about the bust of “ Alexandrine,” of which
M. Levoff, her brother, took the mould with him, securing its safety by
having it filled in with alabaster.
J. K. made yesterday a photographic experiment, which did not suc¬
ceed any better than that which he twice tried when photographs were
taken of moulds, on which occasions he directed that the medium should
go and sit under the mould. He had told us not to be disappointed if
such should be the case, as it was his first attempt, but that he would
persevere, and sooner or later accomplish it. The Count (in pursuance
of his directions) brought some collodionised and sensitised glass plates,
and laid two of them on the table in a shallow frame, with a sliding top.
John came forth, and took out one of them (opening the frame by pull¬
ing off the slide) and handed it to the Count, directing him to
hold it up “ So," suiting the action to the word, that is, the
bottom edge resting on the table, and the side edges supported
by the Count’s hands. He then came out and presented his face to
it, at the distance of less than a couple of inches, holding
his luminous stone just over his face, first on one side, then
on the other. The light was not at its best. The plate was
scarcely more than two-thirds of the size of the face thus applied close
to it, for about thirty or forty seconds. He said—“ There, that will do,
and if the plate was well sensitised I think you will find an impression."
But, when taken to a photographer to be developed, it did not exhibit
the slightest. When asked to-day whether he would try another, he
said—“ No, not to-day." We shall see what may come of this. First
failure in an attempt is a fact to be noted as well as success would be.
He alluded again to-day to a proof of force to be exerted, which he
has promised, and of which he has more than once spoken as a thing he
intended to do for the Count’s satisfaction, namely, the shattering of a
solid iron cannon-ball into pieces. He renewed the promise. I suppose
it is to be done by a sudden blow of a wave of some sort of electric force.
We have seen the Hercules of fairs shatter paving-stones with their
fists, well-bound round with a handkerchief. But a solid and flawless
cannon-ball is “made of sterner stuff.” He has told the Count to get the
ball, and to have it ready for him when he shall be.
He seems to be a little impatient over my slowness in putting
together “ his book," as he calls it, that is to say, a volume which I
have consented to prepare under the title of Experiences in Spiritualism
in Paris in 1875-6 and-7, to be mainly a collection of 5 the series of
letters in which I have recorded our observations over here. It will be
illustrated with photographs of some of our busts, &c. He says it will
do a great deal of good. He every day asks how it is getting oh.
Unfortunately, my time is greatly absorbed with important affairs of a
very different order, to say nothing of between two and three hours
sliced out of the very heart of every day by these seances.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
2, Rue Solferino, Paris.
THE THEORY OF REINCARNATION.
Sir,—The Rev. Mr. Colley, in your journal of the 3rd inst., gives a
very interesting account of the seances he attended in Naples, at the
residence of Signor Damiani, with the gifted trance medium, the
Baroness Cerrapica.
Mr. Colley says that “the doctrine of reincarnation is upheld and
taught here by spirits, both in and out of the flesh, and one of the
controls was sorely puzzled to see in one of our company the spirit of
Aristides the Just, still tangled up in parcels of fibrine, albumen, and
phosphates, that have conspired to build up the body of our living
friend, and when the question was put as to the need of one so just to
be reincarnated, the answer was that though well-nigh morally perfect,
it was to his benefit to return to earth once more.”
It would have been very satisfactory to English Spiritualists if Mr.
Colley had had the opportunity of minutely inquiring into the moral
status and real character of the living Aristides reincarnated, of whom
history tells of the original that “ he was a man of great temperance
j|j and virtue, which secured for him the surname of the Just, and whose
isi example as a great leader made the Athenians more virtuous.”
|) i Mr. Colley, if he had even thought of the point involved, would not
!|l as a stranger have the opportunity probably of satisfying himself, but
! i i my friend Signor Damiani, who since his residence in England has
I; | adopted Kardec’s views, will no doubt be able to tell us whether his
|| friend, Signor Blank, now in the flesh, is esteemed as a man “ well-nigh
h i morally perfect.”
| If he be not, it is an additional reason, to many others, why I cannot
] (| yet embrace the Kardecian philosophy, which is so universally accepted
n! on the Continent by many most excellent men and women who are
I )| ardent Spiritualists, and with whom I entirely agree in other respects.
Iji B. Coleman.
j|j August 10th, 1877.  
i ji THE TRUSTWORTHINESS OF CERTAIN SPIRIT MESSAGES.
|) j Sir,—In The Spiritualist of 22nd June I read Mr. J. H. Gledstanes’
iji letter upon “ Life Beyond the Grave,” which he says is an interesting
I j i account of spiritual existence on what the communicating spirit desig-
i j: nates the earth plane ; which would be very much so if we were certain
] j j of its truth, but such communications are so conflicting and contradictory,
| j] that I have no confidence in them. Is it not notorious that many spirits
I who have left the body delight in hoaxing the credulous, just as many
i j j do who are still in the flesh, and that both are unchanged when they
j j j have passed beyond the grave ? It would be interesting to know Mr.
! j; Gledstanes’ grounds for believing in the communications to which he
j| refers. It is a very great comfort to be assured that there is a future
j | state, but I believe we shall know little or nothing more until we have
j j passed into it. Spiritualist.
(! MESMERISM AND PHRENOLOGY.
I f Sir,—The matter contained in my letter of the 23rd July was in-
| j I tended rather to draw attention to some apparent anomalies which
I j | strike our attention in reading the contributions which have emanated
j) i from the minds of those who have dealt with the subject of mesmerism,
Ijf than to deal with the subject fully. The letter I then sent had the
| j i disadvantage generally of short communications, of not being sufficiently
j) i explicit,
jjj Memory, as Captain James cogently remarks, is not one distinct
j j jj faculty, but rather the harmonious or healthy action of each special
|) | organ. No one now, I think, who lays claim to any knowledge of the
H subject of phrenology, would venture to assert otherwise. If he did,
| I am very much afraid the facts would not warrant any such con-
i j elusion.
i ( It might have been better, and more satisfactory, if I had added to
j)| the paragraph, “subjects who are able to give names, dates, and
j j | events, with accuracy at one time, were also able at all times to do so,
i j ] and those who were not able to give names always manifested that
|)j peculiarity” the words, “ all things else being equal—that is, health,
| j | harmonious influence, and so on.”
I (j Concerning mesmerism, I am not influenced by any special theory,
j) I but simply content myself with patiently observing phenomena as they
| j | occur in my practice, and so far they have pointed to the conclusions
I (| stated in my former communication of your issue of the 27th July.
|) i Subjects who are dull, stupid, deficient in their perceptive and semi-
]ji perceptive faculties in their normal condition, never display any re-
1 j I markable powers in the state of trance, whether that trance be mes-
| | meric, mediumistic, or self-induced. On the other hand, we may look
i j i for large intuition and fair eventuality, all things else being equal, in
| j | sensitives possessed of large perceptives.
]|j There are at present in London many well-known test mediums who
| | are themselves conclusive evidence of the fact.
iji Before dealing more comprehensively with the subject from my
;) j standpoint, I should like to see eliminated in your valuable paper the
| j j experience of others. J. Coates.
jjj 12, Lime-street, Liverpool.
jjl WAS IT BLOMBERG?
j j 1 Sir,—In the Diary and Letters of Madame D'Arblay, as Miss Fanny
jj| Burney, the authoress, of Evelina, and, as such, the friend of Dr.
jj! Johnson, and afterwards an attendant on Queen Charlotte, among the
j 1 j stated inconveniences of a place at court, a principal one is mentioned,
ijli that of being subject to constant intercourse with persons who are
j j j disagreeable and unsympathetic. None more so, in the case of Miss
jit Burney — with the exception of the cruel old tyrant, Madame
j(j Schwellenberg—than a certain gentleman whom she designates as
i j “ Mr. Turbulent; ” and there seems reason to suppose that he was
i j the person who was introduced to the Royal Family, as a child,
j j through the means of a ghost story. Madame D’Arblay, speaking of
j I j him in her sometimes somewhat quaint language, says And thus,
jj during the whole journey, in another new character, appeared Mr.
j j j Turbulent! For nothing did he seem, more or less, than a mere mis-
j j j chievous polisson, from its beginning to end.” Again she says :—
“How strange and how wild a character! I again acquainted my
iji beloved old friend, Mrs. Delany, with all this affair (one of his
j j j especial worryings), and she counselled me to keep upon manifest good
I j | terms invariably, and to avoid complaints that led to scenes of such
j ji violence and impropriety.”
||| Mr. Turbulent’s liberties were not confined to members of the
jji retinue; they extended to Royalty itself. “The Princess Augusta
jjj came, during coffee, for a netting shuttle of the Queen’s. While she
|Ij was speaking to me, he, Mr. Turbulent, stood behind, and exclaimed,
iji d demi voix, as if to himself, 1 Comme elle est jolie ce soir, son Altesse
|jl Royale!' And then, seeing her blush extremely, he clasped his
jjl hands in high pretended confusion, and, hiding his head, he called,
' ' out, I Que ferai-je f The Princess has heard me! ’
August 17, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 83
“1 Pray, Mr. Turbulent,’ cried sbe, hastily, ‘ what play are you to
read to-night ? ’
“ ‘ You shall choose, ma’am; either La Coquette Corrigee, or—* (he
named another I have forgotten).
“ I Oh, no ! ’ cried she, $ that last is shocking ! Don’t let me hear
that.’
“‘I understand you, ma’am. You fix, then, upon La Coquette?
La Coquette is your Royal Highness’s taste ? ’ ”
The dialogue continued for some time, and it need not be repeated
here ; but Mr. Turbulent finished with a vulgar personality. ‘‘Fixing
her with the most provoking eyes, (Est-ce la Danemarc ? ’ he cried.
“She coloured violently, and, quite angry with him, called out,
‘ Mr. Turbulent, how can you be such a fool! ’ ” Scrutator.
CASE OF CLAIRVOYANCE RECORDED BY HARRIET
MARTINEAU.
The following instance of clairvoyance is extracted from
the Autobiography of Harriet Martineau. (Smith, Elder,
and Co. London : 1877) :—
Early in 1849 I stayed a few days at Mr. S. Dukinfield Darbishire’s,
at Manchester. One night, after a party, Mrs. Darbishire told me that
she had to go, the next morning, to Bolton, and she hoped I would go
with her. She had a question to ask of the girl Emma, whose strange
powers as a somnambule had just become known through an accident.
Mrs. D ’s question related to some missing property (not, I think,
her own, but a friend’s). Emma’s information had recently led to the
discovery of some mislaid bank-notes, and the saving of the character
of a clerk; and this induced Mrs. D ’s experiment. I shall say
nothing about that business, however, but shall relate only incidents
within my own experience and observation. At first I refused to go,
being unwilling to countenance the practice of exposing invalids (as
somnambules very commonly are), to be mesmerised for money, and
urged beyond the natural exercise of the faculty, whatever it be. At
bed-time, however, Mrs. D said, “ I think, if you consider that
your going will make no difference to the girl, that it will be merely two
ladies being in the room instead of one, you will see that you may
as well use the opportunity.” I was very willing, of course; and
I went.
It was a bitter cold winter’s morning; and when we left the station
at Bolton Mrs. D  said she hoped we might meet brother Charles
presently, and not have to waitl ong in the street. She had sent him a
request to meet her at Mr. Haddock’s (where Emma lived), but it had
now occurred to her that we had better meet him in the street, that she
might caution him against mentioning either of our names in Mr. Had¬
dock’s house. We did meet him, a few yards beyond Mr. Haddock’s
shop; he was introduced to me, and we agreed to mention no name
during the interview. Mr. Charles Darbishire (I believe a bachelor),
lived eight miles from Bolton, and I think he and I had met once
before ; but we were quite strangers to each other. Of me and my ways
he knew nothing but that I lived at Ambleside, and that I had been
much interested in the facts of mesmerism. For his part, what he knew
of Emma was the recovery of the bank-notes, by her information, he
being one of the witnesses of the transaction.
We entered the shop—an apothecary’s shop. Emma was the maid-
of-all-work to Mr. Haddock. As we were not expected, we had to wait
in the shop while the fire was lighted in the sitting-room, and while,
doubtless, Emma dressed. I will say nothing of Mrs. Darbishire’s
business, but merely remark that she and I were the only persons
present, after Mr. C. Darbishire went away, except that Mr. Haddock
went out and came in two or three times as business called him. He
had nothing to do with Emma while she was under my hands.
She was a vulgar girl, anything but handsome, and extremely igno¬
rant. It does not matter to my story, but it is the fact that she could
not read. What I saw disposed me to try what I could make of her
when Mrs. D ’s business was done. I mesmerised her, and soon
saw she was fast. She exclaimed at once that “ the lady had warmed
her.”
After a good deal of very striking disclosure on her part, it suddenly
struck me that I might try her power of seeing about places and persons.
So I took a handful—a large handful—of letters from my pocket, Mrs.
D asking me what I was doing. I told her she would soon see, and
so she did; and so did Mr. C. D , who returned in the middle of my
experiment;
I was aware that the girl could not read, but to make all sure, I
chose a letter which was not in an envelope, and was altogether blank
outside. There was not a scratch of ink on it, and it was close folded.
I asked Emma who that letter was from. She clapped it on her head,
close folded, and said a gentleman wrote it who was then walking up
and down his parlour, with a silk handkerchief in his hand. Her
account of his appearance, ways, and habit of mind was as accurate as
possible.
“ Who is it ? ” asked Mrs. D . “ Who is she talking about ? ”
| “ I will tell you all about it by and by,’’ I said; “surely not now.”
Emma described the room, but I need not, unless I mention one
particular. It was a London dining-room, one of hundreds which any
One might venture on describing. One article, however, Emma
mentioned as “ a long-down picture,” hanging, in fact, where she said
it did. The gentleman was Mr. Atkinson, in his own dining-room; and
the “ long-down picture ” was a part plan, part bird’s-eye view of Rome,
two or three times longer than it was broad.
“Now,” said I, “ go into the next room, and tell me what you see
there.”
“ The next room ?” said she. “ There is a room, but I can’t get into
it'; there is no door.” And, moving in a troubled way, “ How can I get
into it when there is no door ? ” *
|! “Isuppose somebody gets into it to clean it,” said I.
H “ Oh, yes; they go in by the hall.”
l\ “ Well, do you go in by the hall.”
|| “ Yes ; I can do that. Ah! this is a smaller room. There are some
li cut stones stuck up—one, two, three.”
I “ Cut stones ! ” said Mrs. Darbishire; and I begged her to wait.
“ And there are some book-shelves—not many books; there are boxes.
}j Some are gray, some are green ; and they have large white marks upon
(j them—letters, I think. They are in rows, a lot of them, one on top of
)| another between the shelves.”
II “Any books?”
(! “Yes, some; only one shelf of them."
[ | “ Anything else ?”
)! She writhed in her chair, and shuddered, and spoke unwillingly and
| hesitatingly.
j “Ye—s; there are some things on the top shelf. I don’t like them,”
i shuddering much.
(i p Tell me about them.”
I “ Well, there are six on ’em; and one is very well; but the other ——”
i And she shuddered.
j “Goon.”
| “ Well, there is one below in the shop—one of the sort.”
(j This was true; I had seen it when we entered.
II Mrs. D could wait no longer. “What is she talking about ?”
(i she exclaimed. “ She talks of ‘ things ’ and ‘ things;’—what things are
j they?’’
j| I said to Emma, “You talk of ‘things.’ What sort of things are
| they?”
U “Well, I can’t tell you what they are.”
I “Are they apples and oranges, or what?”
j “ O no, no! nothing of that sort, I should say ”—and she shuddered
(| out her words, and spoke doubtfully—“ They are a sort of heads. But
11 one goes this way ”—putting up her hands, and describing a wide arch
j from side to side of her head—“and one goes that way,” describing a
(| great arch from the nape of her neck to the root of her nose. This was
II enough; and I relieved her from her painful state of disgust by turning
rj to other objects.
| This may end my first story ; for I could have nothing more re-
| markable to tell. As soon as we were out of the house I explained it
| all to my companions.
j The second room was the place of deposit of some curious property
j of Mr. Atkinson’s deceased father, as well as some odd things of his
1| own. The old Lord Elgin gave Mr. Atkinson, Sr., some of the most
j fragmentary of the Elgin marbles; and these “cut stones” were on
| pedestals in various parts of the room.
( Mr, Atkinson, Sr., was an architect of eminence, and the plans, &c.,
( of mansions and grounds of many noblemen and gentlemen were kept
| by him, as deeds are by lawyers, in tin boxes—in this case gray and
green, with the names of the owners and estates painted outside in large
i white letters—the boxes being shelved as described.
| Above them was a shelf of books, and above them, on the top shelf,
n six “ things B which, as it happened, I had forgotten, till the girl’s horrors
(| brought them back to mind.
! They were six casts of heads—one, as she said, nothing remarkable,
(! or “ very well.” The other five were casts of the heads of a family of
| idiots in Norfolk, hideous beyond expression, and two of them enormous,
i as Emma described—one in length, the other in breadth.
(i Of course I told Mr. C. Darbishire that I should be ready to bear
j j witness to the reality of Emma’s powers at that date—so far, at least, as
/ j (what is called) “ thought-reading ” is concerned—in case of her meeting
(i with the too common treatment—the insult and imputation of imposture,
)| which are the weapons of the prejudiced, the ignorant, and people who
) ] are too indolent to ascertain facts for themselves. I implored him, how-
(j ever, to do all he could to prevent the girl being over-worked or over-
) | urged, and thus to save her from the danger of filling up her failing
) | power by material from the imagination, and at last resorting to tricks,
(| deceiving herself and others rather than give up.
(j Mr. W. H. Harrison is at the British Association at Plymouth.
j j I The Baron and Baroness von Yay proceeded to Ireland last Saturday
: jj on a visit to private friends.
| Mr. C. E. Williams has left London for the Continent, and will
jsj reside for a time with M. Gustave de Yeh, at Interlakken, Switzer-
i)! land. In England he bears a very good name as a medium, and he
| j obtains powerful physical manifestations in the dark, off his own pre-
i (i mises, while he is held hand and foot, heavy articles being frequently
|) i moved about the room, or placed on the table, when he is thus
III secured. The room must be in total darkness, otherwise nothing, as
j |i a rule, takes place.
i (I Spiritualism in Dalston.—At the ordinary monthly meeting of the
! 11 Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, held
|/| at the Association’s Rooms, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, London, on
I (I Thursday evening last week, under the vice-presidency of Mrs. Corner,
|)| the other members present were Messrs. J. Tozeland and T. Blyton.
!) I The minutes of last session were read and confirmed1. Letters were read
j from Dr. W. B. Carpenter, F.R.S., the Countess of Caithness, and Mrs.
|| J Georgina Weldon. Presentations, received since the last meeting of the
|?| Council, were laid upon the table and accepted with a cordial vote of
|(| thanks to the respective donors, viz.: Mr. Wm. Crookes, F.R.S., the
|) i Countess of Caithness, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and Mr. W. J. Colville,
m The hon. treasurer submitted cash accounts, which were passed. Miss
j 11 J ennie Pope was elected an ordinary member. Letters were read from
|)i Messrs. J. W. Fletcher, J. J. Morse, and W. J. Colville, proffering their
I f | services, and the hon. secretary submitted circular of special announce-
! (; ments in connection therewith, which were confirmed,' with thanks to
Messrs, Fletcher, Morse, and Colville.
84
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 17, 1877.
SPIRITUAL IMPRESSIONS BETWEEN WAKING AND
SLEEPING.
In The Spiritualist for July 27th you ask for examples of j
spiritual impressions received between the moments of sleep¬
ing and waking. The following personal experiences may
serve as illustration, though in the two first instances they j
are dependent upon the rapport of my spirit with that of !
living people in the body. They are not the less spiritual,
however, because I was unconsciously affected by these
persons at the moment of influence.
The first occasion was some years ago, when I was a young I
inquirer into the truth of spirit existence. I was thinking
much of the growth and progress of the soul, and being in
delicate health, I retired one evening early to rest. I had
been asleep about an hour when two people coming into my
room talking, awoke me, just at the moment I was spiritually jjj
asking and receiving answers to questions from my friend j ]
and instructor who was alone in another room. The mental | i
questions were on the subject of the manifold changes and j J
growths of the human spirit; and if there were any deaths {jf
and births to the soul-body similar to the decay of the body j |
at the one change of mortal death. 11
I was receiving answers to these questions, but at the j
same moment the disturbance caused by the talkers so j
aroused me that I became unconscious of what had just passed I
within my mind, and forgot all about the subject.
The next day, at dinner, I met my friend and instructor, j
and said to him, u There was a question in my mind last j
evening which I have now forgotten, for I was interrupted j
in sleep at the time I was finding it out.” My friend replied, j
“ Stay a minute, I will tell you what it is, for you came in j
spirit to ask me;” and there and then he repeated to me j
in clear terms the very subject in my mind, saying, “ You j
wanted to know if the soul passed through many changes |
of condition in a body after the mortal change of death.” j
“ Yes,” I replied, “ and you answered me, I now remember, I
at the moment I was disturbed, and you told me there j
were many changes through which the soul passes, as it I
dies to one state of feeling, and rises into a higher percep- j
tion of life and spirit.” j
This and the following experiences are instances of being | !
in communication with souls in the mortal body, with this ! |
difference, that in the next case, the impression was made I I
on my external senses, not on my mind, though caused by Ijl
the joined minds of two others. I ]
It was on a spring morning, when my sister and I, both jjj
sleeping in the same room, were disturbed by the sound of j j
gentle raps on my iron bedstead. On asking my sister if I j
she heard the raps, “ Yes,” she replied, “ they are on the iron I j
bars of your bed.” Presently they ceased, as I heard foot- I i
steps sounding on the hall door-step. They rested there, j j
and at the same moment we heard the village clock strike j j
six. Then there was talking heard beneath my window, and j j
soon the steps went slowly away. In the course of the day j j
I went to see two poor respectable people, an intelligent j i
woman and her husband, whom I knew well. She then j ]
told me her husband had been ill and restless all night, and j j
she could not keep him indoors. So she took him a walk | j
early in the morning, and they wandered about, saying, j!
“We will go to Miss ’s house, and pass by her door. I j
We did so, and stood on your door-step just as the clock j j
struck six; and we talked of you, wondering whether you I I
would be awake, and my husband said to me, 4 Bless the l|
dear lady, she little knows that we two poor creatures are I j
standing here talking of her, maybe beneath her window; [ ]
and little she knows what a restless weary being I am, or j j
that it does me good to even come to her house and talk of jjl
her.”’ i tj 1 |g|» j j
But often have I heard voices, both just on going to sleep, I
and before waking, and seen figures and representations of I !
scenes which have warned me what event was coming. A j j
year ago, I was anxiously waiting the news of a dear j j
relation’s health, who was dangerously ill; one morning, jjj
on being called, just before I awoke, I was in the act of m
dressing her in some clean white garments, and I was so m
delighted to see her stand to be dressed, and to find her look j; j
so much better, that I told my dream or vision of her to my j j
sister, saying, “We were dressing her in new white gar- jjj
ments.” As I said so, it occurred to me she must have ifi
I passed away; for I knew that to dream of dressing in clean
j white garments meant a new condition of existence.
That very day a telegram came, saying that our dear rela¬
tion had left her body, and passed away to the new life at
three o’clock that morning. These were merely visions that
were fulfilled by external events; but I have experienced
other more symbolic visions of spiritual realities. Last
Good Friday eve, after meditating on the various views and
manners with which the Christian churches keep the Fast of
the Crucifixion, and considering the Once Crucified One as
now reigning over heaven and earth, I was refreshed in the
early morning by a vision presented to me of a vast church,
larger than any building of the kind in England; and from
j above the congregation! was made to behold the vast assembly
kneeling in worship of the Crucified One. A great spiritual
guide took me to the height of the expansive dome, and
bade me look at the crowd who were commemorating the
mortal death of their Christ, and then he revealed to me a
glimpse of the hosts of spiritual beings who were worship¬
ping their risen and ascended Lord. I was lifted up in heart
and mind at thus being allowed to see what my angels
pointed out, as they made me understand the Risen Life,
bidding me worship that rather than the “ Shadow of
Death,” which was the object of the people’s worship.
There was a fulness of angelic presence in this dome, where
I was taken to behold the earth-worshippers; and a jubilant
sense of rejoicing and gratitude amongst them, to Him who
said, “ I am He that liveth, and was dead, and behold I am
alive for evermore.”
This vision, though transitory, supported me the next day
through the sadness of the Church services that dwell so
much on the mortal sufferings on the Cross, rather than on
the life of self-abnegation, which the Master lived, and
taught. These instances are enough to show what spiritual
impressions are made on the passive mind just before waking.
I am not a strong physical medium—indeed, all the little
power I ever had for drawing, or circle-manifestations, is
very feeble; but with the departure of that, these intuitions
are my chief source of refreshment. T. G.
SPIRITUALISM IN SALT™LAKE CITY.
Mr. T. C. Armstrong, Sr., writes : It is -with pleasure that, iu
accordance with a resolution of the Society of Spiritualists in this city,
I give you an account of the reorganisation of a Spiritualist association
here. For some considerable time past the Spiritualists here have
been without any organisation; holding a few seances in private
houses and occasionally giving lectures, mediums, and exposers an
opportunity of coming before the public in the Liberal Institute;
among the former, honourable mention may be made of Mr. Thomas
Walker and Hon. Warren Chase, who both did good service here last
winter; while the operations of the so-called medium exposers, although
proving nothing but their love of the untruthful, yet gave our enemies
additional excuse for exultation, and also tended to weaken the ardour
of some of our friends, as well as to stop the inquirer for a time
from furthur investigation. This state of things continued for a time,
until a few of the working Spiritualists, urged and backed by our
loving friends of the better shore, determined to do something to bring
about a union amongst the believers in the spiritual philosophy, and to
make an effort to place before the general public such evidences of a
life beyond the tomb as would be irrefutable. To this end we took a
large room and held a few seances and consultations upon the question
of organisation, and the 31st of March approaching, and our room
becoming, on account of the increase of visitors, too small for us, we
concluded to hold a public anniversary of Modern Spiritualism, and for
this purpose took Cisler’s Hall, situated on Main street, in this city,
where we had very good and satisfactory meetings on Sunday, April
1st. We continued to meet in the same place, and on Sunday, April 15th,
at a special meeting, we organised a society (First society of Spirit¬
ualists of Salt Lake), with a constitution and bye-laws, using as a basis
the articles suggested in the Religio-Philosophical Journal of Dec. 23rd,
1876, No. 15, making changes to suit our own peculiar circumstances.
The following are the officers of the Society: Trustees—John Hep-
worth, T. C. Armstrong, Sr., and John P. Lloyd. Treasurer, T. C.
Armstrong, Sr., ; Secretary, Alfred Ward; Corresponding Secretary,
W. H. Holmes, since replaced by T. C. Armstrong, Sr.; with the
following ladies and gentlemen to fill the Executive Committee : W.
Pimrock, John Gunn, James Ashman, Mrs. Fanny Ashman, Mrs. M.
S. Hunt, Mrs. Y. Hep worth, Mrs. Mary Ward, Mrs. Mary A. Lloyd,
T. C. Armstrong, Jr., James Peterson, James Fisher, Mr. and Mrs.
Hance Ahlquist, and Mr. Hy. Cottle. Meetings have been held
regularly in Cisler’s Hall, since the organisation, on Sunday afternoons
and evenings, and latterly also a seance on Wednesday evenings in the
same place. It is gratifying to observe that love and harmony are on
the increase in our midst, and that several of our brothers and sisters
are developing in varied phases of mediumship; we appeal to all lovers
of the good and true to come forward and help us to stem the torrent
of bigotry, superstition, priestcraft, and wrong which flows throughout
Utah.—MeligiO’Philosophical Journal,
August 17, 1877.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Eepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of 'W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the sendees of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.'
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern. Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., I6s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supornaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The. Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. Od.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of attrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe. is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, XOs, cd.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d. .
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of heautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 560 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. Cd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P, Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. ed.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.  
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . • • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spibitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 A.n.j. Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10 fi
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Eaith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople , . . . . . 12 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 0
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—Nowfft Wales Daily
Hews
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W, H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists."—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III, „ ,. , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. ..V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis . . ..76
i. Stellar Key to the Summer Land . % .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . , .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. « . . .30
Morning Lectures .... . .76
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KHINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIEIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all oiher mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
aiThe1above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for tl e Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emoUient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloaae-square, S.W.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
August 17, 1877,
THE GREA.3XQUESTI0N OF THE DAY.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of IhfBetious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and Careless? The Times states that 100,000
Cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down Us preventable. Upwards of 600,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PBINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quietly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
Valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the. body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
| In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUftK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED PROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping ihe system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Saif, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
, “Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commeuced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years."
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
new what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
d for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
' Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Ayent for Paris—PH A.RMAGIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.
BY “ M.A. (OXON.).”
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION ga
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten's Historj/ of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and Modem Spiritualism. Howitt’s
History cf the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, Judge
Edmond's Tracts.
SECTION II.
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana of Spiritualism,
(reviewed), Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke’s Researches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Procf Palpable of
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism.
SECTION IV.
Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modem
Spiritualism (reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debateable Land, S. C. Hall's Use of Spiritualism.
SECTION V.
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exempliBed in simple dear-
sight or psychometrically in Denton’s Soul cf Things, and
I Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
Arcana de la vie future.
SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Sealing further with certain occult powers of
the human spirit, and with phenomeoa attributable to them,
as shown in-Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
THE TRANS-CORPOREAL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Deaih: and under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can be ascertained.]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books on the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not be substan¬
tially changed.
The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, "W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present, f Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found*in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind, sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come- to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order , to get the best manifestations ?”. Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask ‘“Who is the medium?’’ When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings othumanity. .
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR j
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in tlis country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensatiohs
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid's Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:— Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, VVitchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Blinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyllc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
. CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—^Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-^Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phrepo-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
-^Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s'Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XVTrance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiriludlis
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d. ^\ ’
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address O.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton-of Messrs. B?al, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.. .George’s-
road. -    •
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained-speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
respectfully announce that they execute AJLL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bbykbidgh & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. ALLEN, Aye
Maria-lano, London, E.O.
