RiCGISTKIULD AS A NKW8PAPHE.
<Dlb*st Uttospaptr toii^r Spiritualism in 6nat Britain,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 946. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 3, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Paris!, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florin:ont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Tournal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 335, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. xoio. Seventh-street.
No. 291. (VOL.XII.—No. 12.) LONDON I FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
A Persistent Apparition. By William H. Harrison   138
Remarkable Form Manifestations in America. By E. G.
Brown      134
T»ia Unveiled and the Todas ... ... ...    ... ... 186
The Materialisation of a Spirit. ,By Hensleigh Wedg¬
wood, J.P  ... ... ■ ...     ... ... ... 137
An Indian Legend... ... ... ...     137
An Inspirational Lecture at Ulverstone    137
Private Seances:—A Medium Carried Out of a Closed
Room  ...   ... 188
A War Office Ghost.   188
Slate Writing 188
Indian Mysticisms     ...     139
Correspondence:—Madame Blavatsky on Indian Meta¬
physics—Jesus and the Records of His Time—
Spiritualism in Hull—The National Association of
Spiritualists—Isis Unveiled—A Materialised Spirit ... 140
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. By Emily Kislmgbnry 144
Answers to Correspondents 144
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Hull, 133; Bulwer Lytton
and Spiritualism, 133; Goethe's Psychological Sensi¬
tiveness, 136 ; “ Passed to Spirit Life,” 186 ; Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 136;
Spiritualism in Manchester, 138; Mesmerism, 189;
Alleged Clairvoyance in a Dog, 143; Soiree of the
National Association of Spiritualists...     ... 144
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHES IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
Jl oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual-
Isu In all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe i it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to Its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, Including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names In connection with their communica¬
tions in Its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S.. Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Scienoe” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (18701: Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wlttgensteln (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Lcuchtonberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.Q.8.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Conrt
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Qerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Coart of Portugal; Mr. 0. 0. Massey,
Bsirrister-at-Law: Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkaa, F.Q.8.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain: Mr. Alexander Gaidar, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.): Sir Charles
ishani. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougnll Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre AksoKof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelina Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister
at Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M l). (Rain.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. John E Pardon, M.B. (Inula);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author oi
the *' Life of Swedenborg"); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies. D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London"; Mr. 8. 0.
Hall, F.S.A; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F-R.G.S.;
Mr. II. D. Jencken, M HI. Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E : Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy: Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisllng-
miry; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Marthexe; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Llndesoy
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia): and many other ladles and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10a lOd.;
In the Dili tod States and Australia, 13s., post Dree,
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Marta-lane, St. Paul's-ohurohyord, E.O.
Paris; Klosque, 946, Boulevard dos Capacities, and 7, Rue de
Ltllo. Leipzig: 3, Lindenstrasse. Florence; Signor G. Parisl,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 367, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josofstaadt Erzherzog, 28, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-seoond-etreet and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomory-plaoo, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Rtligio-Philosophical Journal Offioe.
Memphis, TJ.S.: 92S, union-street. San Franolsoo: 819,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010Seventh-street
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
ASTROLOGY. “ Worth its weight in gold.”
. Every adult person living should purchase at once
“ YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 up., cloth, only
3b. fid. London: Rkrgkr, NoworsMo-stroot, anti J. Burns; or
post-free of E. Oasahl, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT BUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for March, 1878.
Friday, 32nd.—Seance Committee, at 6 pan.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.80 p.m.
„ „ Committee's Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 25£7z.—Fortnightly _ Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
„ „ “ The Spirit-World as seen through Crys¬
tals, Mirrors, and Vessels of Water,” by
Dr. Kenneth Mackenzie, F.S.A.
Tuesday, 2Gth.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
Wednesday, 27th.—Inquirers’ Seance at 8 pan., Mr. Eglinton,
medium.
Friday, 99f A.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.80 p.m.
LIBRARY.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mb. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND H ELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Just published, price 5s., richly gilt.
The Library Committee has a complete set of the Revue
Spi rite for sole for the year 1875, Including several spirit
photographs by Buguet, of Paris. Also second-hand copies of
the Ranner of Light for the greater part of the year 1877, and of
Psychic Studies, more or less incomplete, since the year 1864.
The Committee would be glad to exchange some of these for
complete sets of the Christian Spiritualist.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, Ac.. Ac., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
R E C I T A T I O N S
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
Every Thursday in February and March, at 8.15 p.m.
Changes will be made in each Programme.
Tickets may be had at Mite hell's library, 33, Old Bond- street;
Hayes's box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall: or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of eight recitations, one guinea each. Single tickets—Stalls,
8a; chairs, 9». ; balcony, la. 
Price five shillings. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON.)” ON
PSYCHOGRAPHY
Will be published next Tuesday afternoon. Subscribers
supplied post free, in the rotation in which their orders and
remittances are received.
London: W. H. HARRISON, 33, Great Russell-street.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER’S PAM¬
PHLET on Clairvoyance, price 4d. Also on Curative
Mesmerism, prise 6d. To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-
gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
. CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediums hip of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. Y. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treheme)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta ”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Lift of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
or Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the-
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vav (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of R&inham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbnry from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies. D.D.
—“ My Saint." By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon."
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfailen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kisllngbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. CaUler—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F.B.G.S.—A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pore, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (In the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nioeet and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Fears, 9), Great Russell-street, London. 
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
Yon will find it a great source of Interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Frets, including Type and all accessories, from £6.
O. G. 8QUINTANI A CO
Show Rooms :—18o, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, "HOW TO PRINT,’’
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ac., Ac.;
post free, seven stamps, A
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 3 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1873,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes. C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes's
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage'paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, Al 10s.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
BMRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 A 80, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.OJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 3. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS BAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 22, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION Off
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Colderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, tipper Norwood.
FItz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood,'Mrs., 52, Warwick-Square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.It.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C. - •>. ,
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London.E.C.
Bogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Bpeer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, NVW.
. Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumbeyland-place, IJyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Ashton. E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Bafkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Blnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester;
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W..
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malapar,” Portsmouth.
Crosl'and, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southem-hill, Reading.
. Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fltton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamerc-cresoent, Westbonrne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W..Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
.Nosworthy, Mrs,, 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould. Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W, 11, Mitre-court, Teinple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N ,
Str'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardeus, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawhridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Rfedcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock. St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C,
Theohaid, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-squaye, W.
M bite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, XL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hercford-squ'aro, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. E. Andre, Esq, H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Apmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei 1’otschach, Styrla,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris. -
' Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folgitera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-TTohnfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mine, de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C, Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowelt, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
At. F. Clavahoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. Li Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
u.s.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes; Esq., 33, Orsett-terraoe, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery,Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomeny-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre. Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Arithelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A,
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1'Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Mpritgomery-place; Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S'. Godbe, Esd., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A. <
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W,. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigrave-road. S- W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. BE. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna,.
M. Cochet, Rne Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Whannby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth; Hungary.
DalStort Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyion, Esq. j53h, Sigdon-road, Dais ton-lane,
Dalston, London, E. " 1 - 6 ■ —
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Viscohde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BEITISR NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
TROLOGY, a Popular Sketch of
Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Book, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OF ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
mHE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
JL CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
ef'e., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
mHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
JL UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s, 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
"POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
JL LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trauce medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The hook is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SlMPKIN, MARSHALL & OO.
T EAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
AJ Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Oolby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-flusssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
fil, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday jovenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Afldress as above.
MR, J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
  . S.W.   
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN
Healer'arid Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
corneas communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor. are. treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes, 
MRS. C. E. BASSETT,
9, CHOBHAM TERRACE, OHOBHAM ROAD, STRATFORD,
■ .   LONDON, E. 
MR. j. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttcxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
a engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefield-road, Kings-
land, N.
CURATIYE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty arenotunfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes SakGent. This boob, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 6s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
J£ uf nub. Jil^ tft <ppiijHunH$m>
VojLUjvie Twelve.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
A PERSISTENT APPARITION. !
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON. 'it
Last Saturday Mr. James Cain, of 8, Bloomfield-road, | )
Burdett-road, Bow, London, wrote to me that he had received j (
information of the frequent appearance of a il dead ” woman i
to her sister and other persons, during several years. As |
Mr. Cain was the writer of several sensible occasional letters !
to The Spiritualist^ about the progress of Spiritualism in j(
East London, I went to see him on Monday evening last to | ?
inquire into the matter. He informed me that the witness, n
Mrs. Bentley, had never heard of Spiritualism till he men- j
tioned the subject to her a few days ago, when she at once |
said that she fully believed in it because she and others had i
once been unable, for several years, to keep the spirit of her j l
deceased sister out of the house, which in truth was a j
substantial basis for belief. I
Mr. Cain accordingly took me to see Mrs. Bentley, of 6, j
Tibbatts-road, Bromley-by-Bow, E., who gave me the follow- j
ing particulars, which I recorded in shorthand as the details j \
were given by her. There was some cross-questioning by <
me to get the narrative in a connected form so far as regards i
order of sequence, but I put no question of a leading cha- j J
racter. Consequently, the whole statement is spontaneous, j |
She said:—
“ Thirty-five years ago I lived in the village of Mepal,
near Ely, Cambridgeshire, about which time my married S
sister, Maria—Mrs. Sammons—the wife of a labouring man,
died. I took her two little children to my house, and a
week afterwards, while they were sleeping in my room, I j
heard a patting noise round the bed, which afterwards came
over me; I saw nothing, but felt something pulling one of !
the children away from me. A candle was burning in the j
room.
“ The second night I heard footsteps on the stairs, and by |
the light of the candle I saw my departed sister standing in I
the doorway ; she upraised her two hands to the level of her
head, with the fingers pointing upwards, and said—s Ann ! |
How’s Harry ?’ I was astonished, yet not afraid, and j
replied*, c He’s very poorly.’ Then she walked into the next j
room, where the eldest child was ; I went in after her, and }
found the child out of bed, near the window. I could see
him going along the floor, as if some one were pulling him ]
over the boards; I could not then see the spirit, but heard j
her muttering { Harry ! Harry ! Harry ! ’ I seized hold of |
the boy, and put him back in his bed. After this I could j
not sleep. An hour later I went into the child’s room, and
found him by the window. I again put him back in bed.
“ When I saw my sister that evening in the doorway, she
appeared exactly the same as in life, and wore her usual
cotton dress, likewise her ordinary cap. Her face was not j
white, but of the same colour as usual;
“ For two or tlfree nights I saw nothing more of her, but j
afterwards she came patting round the bed again. I saw |
her, but did not speak to her, nor did she speak to me; i
indeed, after this we rarely spoke to each other; but when j
she said anything, she said she wanted her children. She |
always came after her children. During the first fortnight j
I saw her only twice, but heard her nearly every night.
c< Although I was never afraid of her, I was uneasy, so at j
the end of a fortnight I called in the minister; his name was j
Dorman, or something like it; I do not know how to spell
it; I cannot read or write; he belonged to the Church of
England. He does not live in Mepal now; he left to go j
abroad somewhere to preach to the heathen. My father was
parish clerk ; his name was Mr. Dan.
“ The minister came about eight o’clock at night; it was
a winter’s evening, and we had the candle burning. Soon
we heard the spirit walking up the stairs, and the I
minister, who was very nervous, began to read. I do not '
Number Twelve.
MARCH 22nd, 1878.
j know what he read, but think that it was something from the
Bible. Then She came in ; there was no door for her to
| pass through in the bedroom of our cottage ; my father, m y
mother, the minister, our next-door neighbour, and myself,
| all saw her by the light of the candle in the room. She was
just exactly the same as in life; had on the same boots and
everything. The minister, who was very white, said to her—
‘ What is your trouble ?’ My sister replied—‘ I will*come as
long as I ean come.’ The minister, who was fearfully
nervous, said—(I never saw anything like this in my life
before.’ My sister then walked out into the next room, and
the minister remarked—c I could never have believed this if
I had not seen it.’ From that time the spirit came to my
house regularly every night for rather less than two-years-
and-a-half, but she never did any more talking.
“ About a year after my sister’s death, her husband, who
had always treated her badly, came to sleep in my house.
The spirit dragged him half out of bed during the night.
Early in the morning I saw her following him to the street
door, and when he opened it she gave him a push, which
j sent him sprawling into the road.
(( She always appeared on or about the premises where her
children were, and was constantly pulling little Harry out
of bed, and dragging him to the window. I suppose she
wanted to take him away with her, I do not know where. I
had to dress him in thick flannel to prevent his catching
cold, because my sister so often pulled him out of bed during
the night.
ff Rather more than two years after my sister’s death, her
husband, John Sammons, married again, and took the two
children from me to his house. That night he was pulled
out of bed by the spirit, and there were great noises in the
house. These disturbances were powerful during the whole
of the next month; afterwards they moderated, but lasted
i for two years—for the time he had the children with him.
I My sister had been his second wife. The third looked pale
| and miserable; she told me that there was no peace for him,
or the children, or herself. She died fifteen or sixteen years
| ago and so did he. He died suddenly. He used to be
afraid to go after dark to the stables to look after his horses,
I without some of(the boys’ with him, for she often appeared
I to him there.
“The child my sister’s spirit most followed was Harry
j Sammons; he is now somewhere abroad—in New Zealand,
I think. I do not know whether his mother’s spirit followed
him, or whether she followed or left the other brother, whose
j name was Joe Sammons. Joe is now at Haddenham, near
Eiy.
“ Once, when I was nursing one of the children by candle
| light, my sister’s spirit entered the room, and kissed it three
1 times.”
Such is the narrative given me on Monday by Mrs. Bentley,
| without hesitation or prevarication, and as given previously
I to Mr. Cain. I saw no reason, nor did he, to question its
| truthfulness, and the publication of the particulars will, no
| doubt, result in the account being well sifted by residents
j in the locality. The facts are half-way between those so
I common in haunted houses and those prevalent at spirit-
i circles. The phenomena were not restricted to the house, but
| followed the children, who were manifestly strong mediums,
I and the “ patting” noises were evidently ordinary spirit raps.
| The apparition differed from an ordinary materialisation in
I the circumstance that the personal identity of the spirit was
| so clearly proved. Mrs. Bentley seemed pleased to find her
! narrative accepted with appreciation, instead of received with
| that ridicule with which the ignorant greet that which they
| do not understand, thereby causing the loss of much inte-
1 resting knowledge to the world.
' 38, Great Russell-street, London, March 19th, 1878,
134
THE SPIRITUALIST. March 22, 1878.
REMARKABLE FORM MANIFESTATIONS IN AMERICA.*
• BY E. Gr. BROWN.
• ' I left Boston in company with my wife on Tuesday,
February 6th, at 12.30, arriving in Great Falls, N. H., about
3.30. There are direct routes to Rochester, but I desired to j
hear what the citizens of that city, six miles distant, might | (
say of Mrs. Pickering. The testimony was universally in I j
her'favour, none alleging fraud, though many declared “it I
wasn’t spirits.” A pleasant sleigh ride brought us into j
Rochester. A developing circle was held on Tuesday even- j j
ing, in which Mrs. Pickering and her husband wished that |
we might sit; as I observed one member to be adverse to |
the proposition, I declined. I was promised an interview i
the next morning, and the possibility of a private seance on
that evening. I represented myself simply as a Spiritualist, j
not mentioning that I came in any other capacity. The |
welcome was cordial. j
The next morning I had an interview with Mrs. Pickering, j
A member of the developing circle was also present. Mr. j
Pickering was away to his business as usual. From the i
questions asked by myself and wife, I learned that Mrs. |
Pickering is about thirty-two years of age. She was born j
in Laconia, N. H., and has resided in Rochester many years.
She has been a medium twenty years, or since her memory j
can serve her accurately. She is a lady of prepossessing j
appearance. Any one who was a careful observer of medium- !
istic traits would select her as a medium. She is a little I j
less than five feet in height, and of a slender physique. j j
The face, which is quite large, is exceedingly pale, and ] j
perhaps rendered more prominently so by reason of the hair, j j
which is black and short. j j I
A circle having been arranged for the evening we were j 11
present early, and had every facility for investigation. The 111
house where the circle was held is on Charles-street, a short I j j
distance from the village centre. It is a two story and a I
half structure, built after a plan quite common in that j
section, and designed for two families. A gable-roof end j
faces the street. As it fronts, on the extreme left is one j
entrance, while the other is on the right,, at the end of a If j
piazza, thus giving an entrance to the rear of the house. It m
was erected five years ago, and is owned by Mrs. Pickering, j |
who occupies the last-mentioned apartment. The circle j j
room is on the lower floor, on a level with and bounded on j j
one side by the wall of the piazza before mentioned, on the j j
end, and on the second side by the partitions separating it j
from the other tenement. A pair of folding doors open in j
the second end to the reception room of the house, which j
is entered by a door from the piazza, at a height of seven j
feet from the floor in the corner of the room, made by three | j j
feet of the piazza side, and three feet of the first-mentioned ; ]
end, is fastened a slightly curved hoop, from this hangs j \
curtains of black velvet, and the top is covered by a single j I
thickness of the same material. Thus it will be seen that | j
on two sides of the space enclosed are blank walls, on the j j
third, the single velvet curtains; above the velvet covering, j j
beneath a carpeted floor. The base board was six inches j |
high, mortised with a clear sharp joint. It continued whole | j
on either side from the corner to the casement of a door, j
where also it was joined flush. The walls were covered with j
clear light paper, having a small figure. It would show \
quickly any cut or fingering. There was not a trace of a I
concealed closet. To more effectually guard against the j
possibility of there being anything of this nature, an eight j
foot shawl was tacked to the top of the cabinet above and j
to the floor beneath, at either end and in the corner. This j
showed one foot of the shawl projecting beyond the point !
where the curtain of the cabinet joined the wall, and would j
have quickly indicated any movement of the wall or base- 11
board. The room was nine feet high. Therefore two feet j j
of the walls showed between the top of the cabinet and ceil- j |
ing of the room. | j
In the corner of the room opposite to the cabinet, in an j||
alcove made by the projection of chimney, stood Mr. Picker- j j |
ing with a common oil lamp, ready to increase or diminish ! 11
its rays, as might be dictated. The sitters were formed in j j
two rows. The first line of chairs were distant seven feet j j
from the curtains, eight feet from the medium. The sitters j j
in the second row could by leaning forward bring their faces
on a line with those in the first row. My face was distant
from seven to seven and a half feet from the curtains during
the evening.
There were fourteen persons in the circle. The develop¬
ing circle were present, also several sceptics from the town,
and two mediums. The latter, with three others, were
visitors who had come from a distance. A young lady pre¬
sided at the piano, occasionally singing, and assisted by
another when a duet would be rendered. The circle did not
sing once during the evening, nor were they requested to.
The piano at times was silent, and seldom played much
louder than a music box.
At 7.50 the light was lowered and the circle seated. The
light was at all times bright enough for me to see the time
by my watch, which I held in my hand. On my knee lay
a note book, and with pencil in hand I recorded the time
that each form appeared. Often the light would be suffi¬
ciently bright to enable me to distinguish the figure in the
carpet, and the outlines of the subjects of the pictures that
hung on the opposite wall, ten feet distant. The lamp, it
will be remembered, was in the corner on the same end, and
opposite the cabinet, so that the intervening space between
myself and the cabinet was even lighter than where I sat.
7.55, the piano having ceased playing, there was a slight
rustling in the cabinet, and the deep, heavy breathing of
the medium could be plainly heard. Rappings came, and a
duet was sung quietly. 8, a bright, phosphorescent mass
appeared at the opening of the curtains, retiring immedi¬
ately, and again presenting itself several times. The room
was too warm, so the raps said, and a door was opened,
giving ventilation, and lowering the temperature.
8.10, the first form appeared, parting the curtain and
standing in full view. It was six feet in height, and raising
its arm it touched the top of the cabinet easily and naturally.
It retired, and as the light increased appeared again. The
face was thio, cheeks sunken, moustache and chin whiskers
black, pantaloons dark, shirt white. It took a chair in its
hand, lifted it easily, and retired. 8.15, the chair with the
medium in it moved slightly; the deep breathing still
audible. 8.20, a form robed in white stepped forth strongly
and pointed with the hand, retiring in 15 seconds. 8.21,
another form advanced rapidly to the centre of the room. Its
head was covered in white, and the flowing white dress had
some lace covering upon it. Recognised as a daughter by a
gentleman and lady of the developing circle. She had been
before, they said. She remained 40 seconds.
8.30, a slight rustling in the cabinet and a tall, stout
figure stepped out and pointed to a sitter. As it was not
recognised, it asked for more light, and retiring again,
appeared at 8.35. The face was round and full, wearing a
light brown moustache. Features fixed. It was very perfect.
One of the clairvoyants obtained the name, “ George Henry,”
to which it nodded assent, again raised its arm and pointed
to a gentleman who said “ George Henry Downs, it is you.”
It makes one step forward and retires.
8.40, a bright light, a bluish white, shot out from the side
of the curtain, apparently coming through it, describing a
curve and falling to the ground, becoming invisible in the
fall.
8.45, a little, old woman form, somewhat imperfect, but
growing stronger, selected me as its object of interest; asking
for more light it retired and again appeared, coming towards
me. A dress of white, with a mantle on the shoulders, a
cap of white on the head and face were seen. I could not
trace any familiar features, however. A medium said it was
my mother’s mother, to which the form nodded assent. As
I had never seen that lad in the earth form I could not
recognise it. My description is said to tally with her
appearance.
Immediately another form motioned my attention. It was
now 8.50. This was that of a young lady—long, black hair.
It continued to ask for light, by a wave of the hand, until I
protested that it might be dangerous. Its features were
correct, and its actions and motions were unmistakably those
of a relative closely studied in this life. As I remarked
“ your features are correct, but your hair is a little too dark,”
it moved with a glad step to the cabinet, stooped deliberately
and lifted the curtains, revealing the medium and itself at
■s From the Spiritual Scientist (Boston, U,S,A.), March 1st.
Maech 22, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST^
135
one and the same time. For twenty-five seconds the tableau
lasted. I asked the question “ do all here see the medium
and form V\ One said that the form was in his line of vision,
and then it moved, affording him an opportunity to see the
medium’s face.
Here we had the form in white, with a girdle round its
waist, and long hair reaching to the girdle, while the face of
the medium with its short hair, as well as her form, were
plainly seen.
8.55, another lady form with a face something like the last
mentioned and wearing brown hair, was claimed by a gentle¬
man present. It remained 20 seconds.
9, a short, stout form, stepped out with considerable force,
remained a few seconds, and retired.
9.5, a much taller form, full six feet, came out in a bright
light. The silence was remarkable. He bowed, stooped to
the curtains, lifted them over his head, and again the
medium with a form bending over her was seen by all present.
I say “ all,” because I obtained and have in my note book
the signatures of thirteen persons to this effect. Two minutes
were consumed. It was 9.7 when it retired.
Eight minutes had now elapsed, and rappings asked for a
slate. It was passed in and returned with the writing,
u You took the medium’s strength last night.” ‘It transpired
that several sceptics in the town desired to place the
medium in a locked box and the developing circle, the
previous evening, had experimented in this direction.
9.15, the curtain parted, and a fairy-like form stepped out.
It was said that it had been often. It asked for more light,
and, having obtained it, appeared three different times, re¬
maining 53, 56 and 76 seconds respectively. It was clothed
in thin drapery, revealing the outlines of the figure perfectly.
The hands and arms were covered with this gossamer,
delicate drapery, yet showing a profusion of it. An end
streamed from either hand about a yard in length. Little
feet wore white slippers, and golden spangles added to the
effect. The remembrance of the perfectness of this figure is
surprising. When it last appeared it asked for music, and
gracefully danced the seconds it remained. 9.23 it retired.
The medium could be heard breathing heavily, and it was
unmistakably too warm in the room.
The temperature having been lowered at 9.25, the form of
a tall Indian came into view. “We want to see you ; come
out good,” urged one of the circle. It came out walking
with the toe-in step, peculiar to an Indian. . Feathers, coal-
black hair, copper coloured face, a red blouse confined with a
belt, and dark, muddy-red pantaloons, completed the costume
so far as my eye could discover. tC Have you the medium’s
slippers on,” said one, and it jumped up and down evidencing
Weight and the presence of a hard substance under its feet as
it came in contact with the floor. It was, measuring the
feathers, seven feet and a few inches in height.
9.30, several members of the circle spoke of the criticisms
being made in the town, and fifteen minutes were consumed
in this way. It was painful to the medium, or at least,
suffering moans from the cabinet would warrant the inference.
9.47, the curtains parted, and with a quick rapid step the
form of an Indian girl bounded to within a foot of my face,
coming to the medium on my right side, a lady from Port¬
land. “ Winona, is it you ? ” She nodded assent. It had a red
skirt, copper coloured face, dark hair, a light waist, and dark
brown stockings on its feet. It went to the cabinet, pushed
the curtains one side, and appeared to be magnetising the
mediums. It soon lifted the curtains and for the third time
that evening medium and form were visible. The medium
moaned deeply.
9.55, a large man form seen distinctly. 10, the slate was
taken under the curtains and it was written that absolute
quiet and a change of conditions only would save the medium.
Questions in this connection were answered and directions
given concerning the medium. Reference will be made to
{his in the future.
10.5, a young lady form, described at 9.15 again appeared.
More light and music having been obtained, it commenced
to dance, coming out four different times. The first it re¬
mained 57 seconds, second 80 seconds, and the third 55
seconds ; the fourth 114, on which occasion it took a chair,
and seating itself, acted as naturally as one of the circle
could have done.
This ended the appearances for the evening. Time, 10.15.
The circle remained unbroken ten minutes.
The medium was exhausted, and did not become herself ■ '
for half an hour after this time. Aside from the fact of
seeing both medium and form, the former wore nothing
about her that could be made to do service for the various
costumes. My wife was satisfied of this. Furthermore,
Mrs. Pickering wore a little gold pin upon her dress that
fastened a ruffling at her neck. It was arranged in a
peculiar manner when she entered the cabinet; it had nob
been disturbed when she came out. The exact position was
noted, and by no possibility could it have been replaced had
it been removed in the dark.
One other important observation may here be noted. The
faces were all of them inflexible. As the features appeared
so they remained. There was no play of the emotions. The
one form noticed as moving with a glad step did convey this
idea in her movements, but not in the face. So with the
others; the movements of the body were natural. The face
was wax-like. In one instance a phosphorescent emanation
was apparent.
Requesting permission to examine the premises, it was
quickly and willingly granted. “ We desire every one to do
so,” said Mr. Pickering, “when they come here.” I took up
the carpet to a point three feet outside where the curtain
touched the floor. Under it lay the straw. This was re¬
moved, and floor-boards shown to be whole. Requesting
one of the company to stand where the medium had been
placed in the cabinet and strike his feet on the floor, I went
into the cellar underneath. The noise of the feet above
quickly showed where that portion of the floor was located..
I sounded, and knew that I was under the spot enclosed by
the cabinet curtains. Measurement showed the same. There
was no double floor. The timbers were whole, and rested on
the foundation sill. There was no trap-door or concealed
closet. Confederates, masks, lay figures were out of the
question. My senses and reasoning powers were convinced
beyond a doubt, and I had obtained what I have earnestly
sought for some years—the conviction that I had witnessed
genuine form manifestations. .
Mb. and Mrs. Fletcher, the American mediums, inform us that
they have removed into their new apartments, 4, Bloomsbury-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, and are ready to attend professionally to
callers, as usual.
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism has brought
out a new prospectus, with rules and seance regulations appended, the
whole forming a neat little book. Similar local societies will do well to
examine it, since it is a model in its way, and the regulations are the
result of the long experience of a well-managed society.
Spiritualism in Hull.—The attempt to revive Spiritualistic Sunday
services in Hull has answered well. Last Sunday the Foresters’ Hall
was crowded, to hear a lecture by Mr. James Coates on u Spiritualism :
What we know about it.” Several questions were asked by the listeners
at the close of the discourse, and a collection covered all the expenses.
Next Sunday, at seven p.m., Mr. Coates will lecture again in the same
hall. All communications in relation to Spiritualism in Hull should be
addressed to Mr. Bland, 2, Caroline-street, in that town.
Bulwer Lytton and Spiritualism.—The Banner of Light (Boston,
U.S.) of March 2nd, contains the following, in an article about Charles
Foster, the medium:—“ While Mr. Foster was in England he was intro¬
duced to Bulwer, then Sir Edward only,Sn London, by Mrs. Frederick
Barnes, an intimate friend and warm admirer of the distinguished
author. ! Bulwer at that time was undertaking a new novel, and was
likewise investigating Spiritualism, and thus meeting Foster at such a
period, his mind was still more strongly directed to this subject. He
invited Mr. Foster to call and see him at Knebworth, an invitation of
which Mr. Foster availed himself on several occasions, and for several
days at a time. During Foster’s visits to Bulwer, the latter was engaged
in constructing that wonderful novel called A Strange Story} in which
certain spiritual phenomena are discussed and illustrated in a manner
as yet unsurpassed for originality and interest. Certain points in the
hero of this novel were taken from the personnel and history of Foster,
and Bulwer often alluded to the fact that Foster was the model upon
which he had based his Margrave. On several occasions Bulwer, who
evidently regarded A Strange Story as his greatest book, would read
passages from it to Foster. After the reading, the author would become
a disciple, and Foster would hold a seance. Here arose another case of
Mr. Foster’s refusal to surrender his character as a spiritual instrument
for the mere purpose of attaining a flattering popularity: on one occasion
Bulwer advised Foster confidentially not to call himself a ‘ Spiritualist,’
so that the name should not excite popular prejudice against him, but to
give his * exhibitions ’ merely as ‘ scientific phenomena; ’ but this
advice was refused by the faithful medium, and Bulwer, being piqued
that his counsel was not adopted, a dividing coolness arose between
them.”
13(5
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 22, 1878.
“ISIS UNVEILED ” AND THE TODAS.
To the Editor of 11 The Spiritualist.” |
Sir,—Having resided on the Neilgherries for more than I
seven years, during four of which, from 1830 to 1835, 1 held j
the appointment of principal medical officer, which brought j
me into constant contact and communication with the Todas j
(or Todaows), I consider myself bound, in the cause of |
truth, to testify to the accuracy of the strictures on Madame j
Blavatsky’s statements regarding them contained in the I
letters of “H. M.,” and u Late Madras C. S.,” in your last |
and preceding numbers. Hot having seen Madame Bla- j
vatsky’s book, I can only refer to the passages quoted in I
a H. M.’s” letter, every one of which is wholly inaccurate, j
The Todas were in the habit of coming almost daily to me j
to consult me as to their own health or that of their children, j
whom I saw frequently, and many of whom I vaccinated j
with my own hands. I have, on many occasions, especially j
at their funeral ceremonies, which take place once a year, I
seen from fifty to eighty adult men present at one time.
I may add that I generally received special invitations to be j
present on these occasions; that I have been often inside j
their huts, and that I discovered one of their temples in a |
remote corner of the hills, and carefully examined it, but j
saw nothing of the splendour alleged by Madame Blavatsky, j
it being little more than a small hut, with a high, conical i
roof. In fact, I can fully confirm all “ H. M.’s ” counter- |
statements. I am well acquainted with Colonel Marshall’s j
book, which is in general very accurate, though neither it j
nor any of the publications referred to by Dr. Carter Blake j
add much to the knowledge of this remarkable tribe, con- j
veyed by Captain Harkness’s book, published in 1832.
Such being the case, I am utterly at a loss to understand j
how Dr. C. Blake can quote Colonel Marshall’s book as j
supporting Madame Blavatsky’s statements : to me it con- I j
veys exactly the opposite impression. I can only account I
for the singular misapprehensions in Madame Blavatsky’s j
book by supposing that they rest on hearsay, and not on her j
own observation. A good deal of what she says applies j
to the Peiki-Tarali—a kind of priest, who is seldom seen j
or heard of, except at the funeral ceremonies before alluded I
to, but of whom I was told there were only one or two for j
the whole tribe, and who hold their office for a term of years. !
Any further discussion on this subject would be fitter for j
the columns of an anthropological journal than for yours.
Edinburgh. R. Baikie, M.D., late H.E.I.C.S.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.” j j
Sir,-—Allow me to say a few more words on the above j
subject, after which I shall trouble you no further about I
the matter. I
Madame Blavatsky asserts :—
1st. That the children seen with the Todas, and mistaken |
for Toda children, are those of the Badegas.
2ndly. That the Todas are white as Europeans, and differ j
entirely in colour from the Badegas. |
I have merely to remark that it would be hardly possible
for any one to mistake brown, copper-coloured children for
the children of a race white as Europeans.
Dr. Carter Blake is mistaken in supposing that I intend j
to assert absolutely that there are no poisonous snakes on j
the hills. I merely gave my own experience to show that
any immunity from snake-bites, on the highest parts of the j
hills, might be accounted for without the supposition of j j
occult powers possessed by the Todas. As you descend
lower and lower down, no doubt poisonous snakes gradually
become; more and more plentiful. Neither did I cite the j
Cornhill Magazine as an authority, for that speaks of the j
Thibetans, not of the Todas. I referred to it merely as ! |
illustrating the nature of the polyandry attributed to the i !
Todas, not as proving that the latter practised it. Among | |
Hindoos of every caste, all shades of colour, from a light | |
bamboo to a jet black may be met with. The fairest speci- j j
mens are to be found among Brahmins (presumably the caste j
least mixed with aboriginal blood); but even among these ! !
I have never seen any who could really be said to be fair | |
as Europeans. Among Mussulmans, especially those from j j
Upper India, I have seen those to whom the term might be j !
applied; they had red whiskers and beards, and complexions j
no darker than those of Italians and Spaniards. Grey eyes d'
(cats’-eyes, as the natives call them in Southern India) I
have seen among both Hindoos and Mussulmans, even when
the skin has been of a copper colour.
I note that while “ Late Madras C. S.” cites Marshall’s
A Phrenologist among the Todas against Madame Blavatsky,
Dr. Carter Blake would cite the work in her favour. I only
contradict those statements which my own eyes tell me are
wrong, and account for other alleged facts in the ordinary
way. H. M.
Bath, March 15th, 1878.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist”
Sir,—Captain Burton’s work entitled Goa; and the Blue
Mountains has been referred to in your last issue by an
anonymous writer. I, as one of Captain Burton’s old
European friends and colleagues, deeply regret that his
name should have been imported into the controversy. As
he is now in the desert of Midian, and unable to reply for
himself, I shall not comment on the method which enables
veiled writers to suggest the authority in their favour of a
I man who is in Arabia against the good faith of a woman
! who is in America. As regards the statement that Goa;
and the Blue Mountains was <£ published more than thirty
years since,” I may say that there was only one edition
published, and that the copy in my hands, published by Mr.
Richard Bentley, of which the press mark in the British
Museum is 10055 c bears date 1851. We thus see that
“ rough unveiling” may not require the presence of a Burton
or a Blavatsky. C. Carter Blake.
We think that those who have taken part anonymously
in this controversy, in an attack upon a known writer, ought
to have given the public their names and addresses. The
writers are known to us, therefore their testimony has been
published.
Goethe’s Psychological Sensitiveness.—With what wonderful pro¬
perties are we not born; what vague aspirations rise within us 1 How
rarely do imagination and our bodily powers work in opposition ! Pecu¬
liarities of my early boyhood again recur. While I am walking, and
have a long road before me, my arms go dangling by my side; I often
make a grasp, as if I would seize a javelin and hurl it at I know not
whom or what, and then I fancy an arrow shot at me which pierces me
to the heart; I strike my hand upon my breast and feel an inexpressible
sensitiveness; and then, after this, I soon revert to my natural state.—
Goethe.
“ Passed to Spirit Life.”—On the 14th of March last, the Baron
Michele Guitera de Bozzi, for three years president of the Psycho¬
logical Academy of Florence, passed to the higher life. He was a man
of noble mind and elevated sentiments, and a true friend. The leading
seances in Florence for the investigation of Spiritual phenomena were
held in the house of Baron Bozzi, where various learned Italians made
a study of the facts. He was a member and correspondent of various
learned societies, and the founder of the Florentine Psychological
Society, of which he continued to be president until the time of his
death. The service over his remains took place last Friday, at the
Church of St. Felice. Baron Bozzi held liberal principles, and by his
writings did much to promote freedom in Italy.
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.—At the
meeting of the Council of this Association, held on Thursday evening,
March 14th, the members present were—Mrs. Corner, president, in the
chair; Mr. R. Pomeroy-Tredwen, Mr. John Rouse, Mr. R. A. March,
Mr. Jonathan Toseland, and Mr. Thomas Blyton, hon. secretary. The
minutes of the last meeting of the Council were read and confirmed.
Letters of general interest were read from Mr. John Rouse ; Mr. A. I.
Smart, hon. sec. to the Cardiff Spiritual Society; Mr. G. R. Tapp ; Mr.
Leo. Tucker ; Mr. Samuel H. Quarmfiy; Rev. G. T. Driffield, M.A. ;
and Mr. E. W. Wallis. Presentations were accepted, with a cordial vote
of thanks, from the Rev. John Charles Earle, B.A., and Mr. Samuel
H. Quarmby. Mrs. Charlotte Rice, and Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Weeks,
were elected ordinary members of the Association. Resignations of
membership were accepted from Mr. Henry Cook and Mr. W. Langham
Millard. A copy of the March agenda was submitted, and a letter read
from Herr Christian Reimers, with arrangements to read a paper, which
were confirmed. A letter was read from Mr. W. Eglinton respecting
his terms for an engagement, and the hon. secretary was authorised to
make the necessary arrangements for a special subscription seance with
him, on a date to be agreed upon. The secretary reported the accept¬
ance of an invitation by Mr. T. L. Nichols, M.D., to narrate a “Ghost
Story,” on Monday evening, April 15th next, which was confirmed. It
was also resolved to invite Mr. Morell Theobald to read a paper on
“ Christianity and Spiritualism—their Relationship to each other,” on
Monday evening, the 1st of April. The hon. secretary was further
instructed to make suitable arrangements for the closing of the present
winter’s series of fortnightly Monday evening discussion meetings, on
Monday, April 29th; It was resolved to engage the services of Mr. J. J.
Morse for an inspirational trance discourse, on Thursday evening, April
4th next. The Council then adjourned.
March 22, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST.
137
THE MATERIALISATION OF A SPIRIT.
BY HEN SLEIGH WEDGWOOD, J.P.
I. had on Thursday last an excellent opportunity of
observing the astonishing phenomenon of a living form built
up before my eyes in my own study. Mr. Haxby sat as
medium in the cabinet, consisting of a corner of the room
curtained off; and just in front of the opening of the curtains,
at a distance of about two feet, Mrs. Guppy Volckman stood
with her back to the cabinet. I was directly in front of her
at a distance of three or four feet, with two other sitters on my
right and two on my left. My attention was first caught by
an indistinct cloudy object of rounded form between me and
the lower part of Mrs. Yolckman’s dress, apparently floating
a little above the floor. Presently, the form began to grow
upwards, becoming more distinct and solid as it rose, and
soon displayed the unmistakeable form of Abdullah, whom
we had repeatedly seen in the course of the sitting. He did
not seem to rise through the floor, as the bottom of his
drapery lay unmoved upon the carpet when he had not risen
to above half the height of Mrs. Yolckman, and so it con¬
tinued while he seemed to grow up from within, until he
stood up close to Mrs. Yolckman on her left hand as distinct
and apparently as solid as herself. While standing there
we compared the height of the two, and considered Abdullah
as the taller by perhaps an inch, while on a similar com¬
parison subsequently made with Mr. Haxby, we considered
him to be shorter than Mrs. Yolckman by about the same
amount. When this little discussion was over, Abdullah
began to sink, and gradually disappeared, much in the same
way that he had risen up. The medium on this occasion
was not confined in any way, but the whole process of the
building up of the materialised figure took place so distinctly
before my eyes, that it was physically impossible that it
could have been accomplished by an escape of Mr. Haxby
from the cabinet. The light was a low jet of gas just over
my head. The greatly increased power of the medium on
this occasion was evidently owing to the presence of Mrs.
Yolckman. All the materialised figures (of which there
were four of different heights) were much freer in their move¬
ments than usual. Abdullah unbolted the door and went
out alone into the daylight of the hall, from whence he
brought something that was lying on the table there. The
dwarfish form known as “ Cissy,” who generally appears
only at the opening of the curtains, came out and climbed up
on Mrs. Volckman’s lap, where she lay kicking out her feet
against the curtains. Finally, the curtains were drawn
aside, and Mr. Haxby shown with a shadowy white figure
standing by his side. ,
Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London, March 16th, 1878.
AN INDIAN LEGEND.
It seems that Moon Mountain, in the south-western part of the
town of Monson, has a veritable Indian legend attached to it, fantastic
and romantic enough to suit the most fanciful. Of course, its date is
ages and ages ago, and a most beautiful maiden is concerned, with an
unpronounceable name, but called, for short, Ke-wa-goosh-tunk-kum-
can-ge-wock, which means something about the top of a mountain and
the bottom of a river, for she was born on the top of Moon Mountain,
and her mother, who died at the time, prophesied that in death her
daughter should rest among the rocks at the bottom of Chicopee
River. She grew to young womanhood, and became her father’s
darling and solace, to give him a parting caress when he went to the
chase or to war, and to welcome him on his return.
One day, when her father was gone, there came a terrible thunder¬
storm, and at its height there appeared at the door of the wigwam a
young Indian brave, who asked, and was granted shelter. The rain
continued to pour and lightning to flash, when suddenly a white horse
descended from the skies in a flash of lightning, and the thunder that
followed brought a coal-black steed. Just then a heavy gust of wind
blew away the wigwam, and the couple were left exposed to the
elements. Then the white steed opened his mouth, and said :—
“ Maiden, your father is dying, and sent me to carry you to him ; ”
and the black steed said, “ Young brave, this maiden’s father sent me
to carry you as company for this maiden.”
So they mounted the horses and rode away with the speed, of light¬
ning toward the west. When they came to the place where her father
had been, he had been taken away, and they told her a spirit-horse
had taken him to his home.
So they turned their faces toward the east again, and when they
came to where their wigwam had stood they found an old man there,
who said that her father had returned, but, not finding her, he had
driven his horse down to the river; so, toward the Chicopee this
Indian maiden and the brave made their way, and, as they arrived on
the bank, they saw her father in an airy boat on the dark waters,
being forced by some invisible power up the stream. He saw her,
and said :—
w Come not to me, oh my daughter; I am going to the happy
hunting-grounds. The Great Spirit has sent you a protector in the
brave at your side ! Farewell, I will see you no more 1 ”
Then the airy boat disappeared, and her father with it. Frantic
with grief, the maiden urged her steed into the waters, and the brave
followed. When they arrived at the spot where her father went down
the horses vanished from under them, and they were left struggling
in the waters.
Then her father again appeared, and said, “ My children, receive my
blessing,” and they all went down together, and were never seen
again.—Springfield Republican.
AN INSPIRATIONAL LECTURE AT ULYERSTONE.
On Friday evening last the library room of the Ulverstone Temper¬
ance Hall was filled by an audience composed ©f the leading Spiritualists
of that town, Dalton, Barrow, and Millom, with other friends, the
Occasion of the concourse being to listen to an “ inspirational” lecture
by Mr. Colville, the well-known^ Spiritualist trance speaker.
Mr. James Hamer took the chair, and stated that Mr. Colville had
been sent by the Lancashire Association of Spiritualists. He defined
the nature of Mr. Colville’s mediumship, which was that of an “ in¬
spirational speaker.” He then called upon the audience to send up in
writing any subject on which they desired Mr. Colville to address them.
About a dozen topics were handed in, and each having been put to the
show of hands, the vote of the majority was found to be in favour of one
“ On the Best Spiritual Gifts, and How to Attain them.”
Mr. Colville then rose and spoke for nearly an hour. His flow of
language was remarkable. With scarcely a pause, he dilated upon the
various spiritual gifts, such as those of prophecy, healing the sick, and
the gift of tongues. The best gifts could only be attained by attending
closely to the cultivation of the human body, otherwise the intelligences
from the spirit world could not successfully influence the medium.
Abstinence from alcoholic drinks, and smoking, with a careful attention
to diet, so that nothing coarse or unclean be taken into the system, was
recommended, and the daily eating of fruit when in season was
desirable.
At the close of the lecture questions were put by the audience.
In reply to one minister the speaker said that, in order to become
open to inspiration, it was desirable for a young would-be speaker
to go to the summit of a hill or mountain occasionally with a few
friends, and then, keeping his mind perfectly passive, just speak out the
thoughts as they entered. The purity of the atmosphere in elevated
positions was such as to render it much easier for other-world intelli¬
gences to influence the speaker, and render his task one of inspiration
rather than of mental labour. He added that it would be very difficult,
if not impossible, for a person over forty years of age to become an in¬
spired orator. The sooner in life inspirational speaking was commenced
the better and easier it would be. It had to be understood, however,
that the controlling intelligences required a finely-organised brain for
high efforts; just as it would be impossible for the grandest musician to
give forth harmony from a defective instrument, so would it be for them
to speak with eloquence through a brain of a low order.
Another reverend gentleman asked in what way Spiritualists regarded
the atonement of Christ? In answer, Mr. Colville’s guides said that in
the ranks of Spiritualism there were men of all creeds and beliefs, but if
they wanted to know the view of the particular intelligence then con¬
trolling, he would say at once that Christ came on earth to reconcile
man to God, but certainly not to reconcile God to man.
A hymn was sung, and the chairman then stated that Mr.
Colville’s guides would be prepared to deliver an impromptu poem
on any subject they might choose to name. Several were
handed in, such as “Sympathy of the Two Worlds,” “The
Crescent and the Cross,” “On the Borderland," “ Death,” “ Total
Abstinence,” “The Communion of Angels,” and “In Memory of
Sir John Barrow.” The latter, being of local interest, was chosen
almost unanimously. Mr. Colville then asked, who was Sir John
Barrow ? One of the audience contended that spirits ought to know;
to which Mr. Colville replied that it was a great mistake to suppose
that each spirit knew every other spirit who had passed away. They,
themselves, did not know every one on this earth, and was it to be
expected that they, who were chiefly deceased Americans, were able to
know anything of Sir John Barrow ? If they had this knowledge, then
spirits would, indeed, be omniscient, and equal to the Omnipotent Him¬
self. If any one would be good enough to tell them a few facts about
Sir John, they would be quite prepared to proceed with the poem.
Mr. Robert Casson then briefly sketched the life of Sir John, men¬
tioning that he had risen from a cottage home in Uiverstone to become
the Secretary to the Admiralty and a master of many little-known
languages. To his memory a monument had been erected on a hill
adjacent to the town. Mr. Colville, without hesitation, delivered a
poem of several verses anent the subject, full of kindly sentiment,
praising the laudable ambition of the deceased, who had, without—
Title, rank, or earthly fame,
Nobly earned a knightly name;
And in a very creditable manner Mr. Colville convinced many that
inspiration was, indeed, a veritable fact, whether it came, aS alleged,
from the spirit-world, or from the depths of his inner consciousness.
The general opinion was that Mr. Colville had accomplished a literary
feat which very few men living would dare to undertake.
The proceedings closed in the usual manner with the singing of the
doxology.
138
TH 33 SiPiUlTUAList.
Maech 22, 1878.
A REMARKABLE PRIVATE SEANCE.
A MEDIUM CARRIED OUT OP A CLOSED ROOM, j ( i
Last Saturday night, at a skance held at the house of Mrs. | I
Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, j i
London, Mr. Eglinton was the medium. The seance was held ! I
in the drawing-room on the first floor, therefore high above | I
the street; the shutters of all the windows of the room were ' m
closed and barred; they could not have been opened without | I
admitting light from the street. The door was locked on ! j j
the inside, and the key left in the lock. The table around ! j j
which all the sitters sat, was about two yards from the lock, i j
and accidentally in the most favourable position for enabling j j
all the sitters to gaze into the passage if the door had been | j
opened either to a large or small extent. | j
The members of the circle were seated around the table in i j
the following order, in the dark, and with their hands | |
interlinked :—Mr. Eglinton ; Mrs. Eletcher; Mr. W. H. j j
Harrison (of 38, Great Russell-street) ; Mrs. Makdougall j
Gregory; Mrs. Wiseman (of 1, Orme-square, Bayswater) ; j j
Mr. George Sutherland (of 117, Sloane-street) ; Mr. J. W. i j j
Eletcher ; and Mr. Arthur Colman. After some ordinary j | j
manifestations had taken place, Mr. George Sutherland was j j
raised, chair and all, and placed on the centre of the table, \ (j
where he was seen when a light was struck. Another sitter ! j
and his chair were raised about two feet. Mr. Harrison, j
half seriously, asked if the spirits could take Mr. Colman j
through the ceiling, by way of giving variety to the manifest- j
ations; this remark was spontaneous, no medium present j
having said anything to lead the conversation in that direc- j 1
tion. Mrs. Fletcher and Mr. Colman then called out simul- i
taneously that Mr. Eglinton had broken the circle and left j j
them, and Mrs. Gregory told them to join hands. At about j
the same moment a chair, probably Mr. Eglinton’s, was ( j
heard to fall lightly on its feet, apparently some yards from |
the circle, and a violent “ bump” caused by the falling of a j
heavy body on the floor of the room above, caused everybody j j
to think that Mr. Eglinton had been carried through the | j
ceiling, so a light was struck. From the time the remark j
was made about Mr. Colman, to the time the light was struck, j
was about a minute. From the time Mr. Eglinton disjoined !
hands, to the time the fall in the room above was heard, wa.s |
probably less than ten seconds; some of the sitters a few j
minutes after the event occurred, estimated it at five seconds. j
When the light was struck, Mr. Eglinton was not in the j
room. Mr. George Sutherland unlocked the door, by turn- j
ing the key which was in the lock, and it was then noticed I
that the passage outside was feebly illuminated by reflected j j
light, from the gas in the hall below. Mrs. Gregory and j
several sitters proceeded upstairs, and found Mr. Eglinton j
lying in a deep trance on the floor, with his arms extended. j
This was about two minutes after he disjoined hands in the j
room below. In two or three minutes he revived, and com- j
plained of the back of his head being hurt, as if by a blow; i
beyond this there was nothing the matter with him, and he j
was as well as ever in a few minutes.
The sitters were all satisfied that the phenomenon was
genuine, and that the door could not have been opened, j
closed, and locked on the inside by any of the mortals j
present without their knowing it. j
This case is paralleled by others in the history of modern j
Spiritualism, as well as by ancient church legends. Mr. i
Eglinton tells us that he has had the same manifestation j
twice before—once at the house of his friend Mr. Davis, j
where he states that it was given under test] conditions, j
some of those present having their backs against^the door at |
the time. The production of manifestations in response to j
the sudden suggestion of somebody present is not uncommon. j||
The late Mr. Guppy used to speak of it as a [remarkable u
thing that when Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of Upper Norwood, j
was present at Mrs. Guppy’s seances, the spirits were almost I j
sure to do whatever he asked. The facts herein recorded j
cannot in any degree be paralleled by any experiments known | |
to physicists, and are at present foreign both in degree and j j
in kind to their experience and their theories, j j
We desire to receive no more communications at present about U
Theosophy, except the reply which Madame Blavatsky will doubtless j j j
desire to give when she sees what has been published. The occasional j |
examination of various hypotheses like those of the Theosophists, will I (j
bring up many ideas about the spiritual nature of man for con- j 1]
(^deration,
A WAR OFFICE GHOST.
A few days ago the War Office received a notification of
the death of one of its military pensioners, who is stated in
the documents to have been “killed by a ghost.” A man
named Clement Dixon (otherwise Ixion), a pensioner of the
Third West India Regiment, died on January 2nd last at
Rio Pongas, about ninety miles north of Sierra Leone. At
the time of his death he was a watchman at the Sangha
Factory, and his employer, Mr. F. J. Morfa, wrote the report
of the decease of Clement Dixon, to the military authorities.
The statement is, that on the morning of January 2nd, when
Clement Dixon had to take a canoe down the river, he
suddenly fell sick, and after a time became senseless and
unable to speak. All means were tried for his recovery, but
he died at three p.m. Mr. Morfa added that it was supposed
that * ‘ he saw one of the evil ghosts of this place, and took
a loan of something from the said ghosthe did not tell
the ghost that he intended leaving the place in the canoe, so
the ghost upon discovering the fact was “ desperately vexed”
with the watchman, and took away his life “ as a forfeit for
his ill conduct.” Mr. Morfa further stated that an old man
who attended the dying watchman, was able to give further
particulars about the matter, and we shall be thankful if he
will send us those particulars for publication, together with
other information about the ghosts of Rio Pongas. The name
of the deceased is entered on the War Office books as Clement
Ixion, who was admitted to pension August 14, 1860;
stationed at Sierra Leone,
SLATE WRITING.
To the Editor of the uEeligio-Philosojphical Journal" (Chicago, March 2).
Sir,—As it is necessary to bring all facts that bear on Spiritualism
before the overwise people who will believe only in facts, 1 will write
you a few lines, for the truth of which I stake my honour and reputa¬
tion as a public journalist. In the vicinity of Cleveland resides one of
the most respectable, highly educated and wealthy families, who,
although liberal in all things, had until a few months ago paid no
attention to Spiritualism. A friend of the family from the city,
knowing the desire of this family for investigation and truth, invited
several members of it to attend a seance given by Mr. Chas. E.
Watkins, in Cleveland, who claimed to receive communications written
on a slate from departed relatives or friends of the sitter. The old
country gentleman, as we will call him (and who will some day be
heard from over his own signature), bought before going to the seance
two new slates at a book store ; these he tied together, and they never
left his hands even for a second ; they were not even opened, only for
a moment to allow the medium, Mr. Watkins, to throw a piece of
slate pencil between the slates. The writing was at once heard, and
in a few seconds the medium said, “ Open your slates,” and untying
them, there was found written upon one side a message from a sister,
signing her name (a German one) ; the whole being a very fair, honest
and satisfactory test. The family now took an interest in Spiritualism,
and decided to investigate it at their leisure at their own home. They
had not long to wait for developments ; after sitting around the table
the first evening, a young lady (a prospective daughter-in-law) was at
once thrown into a trance and gave some wonderful tests of spirit
power and existence. Shortly after, a daughter was controlled by a
Dr. Field, of London, and a musician ; both controls are exciting
astonishment, the doctor (in spirit) being able to examine any person
and locate the disease immediately. The musician controlling his
medium, plays the most difficult compositions on the piano (the daughter
never played before). A few weeks more and a son-in-law and a
cousin were put under control, also the old gentleman himself—all
three being developed as writing mediums, writing on the most
beautiful and instructive subjects. There are now developed in this
one family, five persons who represent nearly all phases of mediumship.
Hundreds can testify to the truthfulness of the above remarks, and as
I have witnessed the development and manifestations personally, I
know whereof I speak. Hugo Preyer,
Editor of the Ohio Staats Zeitung, Canton, O.
The new book by “ M.A. (Oxon),” on P&ychograpliy tfAoxivsoxi: 1878),
will be published next Tuesday afternoon.
On Monday evening next, at the usual fortnightly meeting of the
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
a paper will be read by Dr. Kenneth Mackenzie, F.S.A,, on “ The
Spirit World, as seen through Crystals, Mirrors, and Vessels of Water.”
Dr. Mackenzie, who was long one of the most active members of the
Anthropological Society, has collected much out-of-the-way information
about the interesting subject of visions in crystals.
Spiritualism in Manchester.—Mr. W. J. Colville will deliver an
inspirational address and poem, on subjects selected by the audience, in
Hulme Town Hall, Manchester, on Sunday next, at seven p.m.
Admission, free ; a collection to defray expenses. On Sunday, March
3lst, he will deliver an address in the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-
street, at 2.30 p.m.; and in the Hulme Town Hall, at seven p.ra. He
will return to London for about a fortnight at Easter, and will lecture
at the Langham Hall on Good Friday.
March 22, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 139
INDIAN MYSTICISMS.
During the last twelve or eighteen months, owing chiefly
to the publication of such works as Art Magic and Isis j
Unveiled, the attention of Spiritualists has been called j
to certain wonderful phenomena occurring in various parts
of the world, and more particularly in the regions of j
Hindustan, where, we are told, such manifestations as j
we are in the habit of witnessing are thrown into the |
shade. It is my good fortune to he on very friendly I
terms with two persons who have frequently visited India, !
one as quartermaster of a merchant vessel trading to j
Calcutta; my other acquaintance served in the naval brigade !
during the Sepoy mutiny. Both of these have had many j
opportunities of seeing the performances of Indian jugglers,
and both confess their entire inability to explain il How it j
is done.” The narrative I now append is taken from the j
Oriental Annual, being portion of a description of various
sports which took place in the presence of a native Rajah.
Both of my friends certify the truth of the narrative, as they
declare themselves to have personally seen what is described
on more than one occasion, excepting the extraordinary
matter of the animals under the wicker basket, which has
not come within their notice. One of my friends says he
has reason to believe that in all cases where the Hindoos
“conjure” with snakes, the reptiles are first well drugged
with opium. They can offer no suggestion explanatory of j
these marvels, and state that generally the performer wears
no raiment excepting a small cloth round the loins; they |
add that the plant-growing “ trick” is very common, and j
can be seen almost any day in the streets of Calcutta, j
being no more uncommon than a Punch and Judy show in j
this country. I append the record from the Annual already j
spoken of, and which is quoted by Dr. Douglas, of Edin¬
burgh :—
“ To me the most interesting part of the sports was the j
performance of the Indian jugglers, a party of them now |
being introduced. One of the men took a large earthen
vessel, with a capacious mouth, filled it with water, and j
turned it upside down, when all the water flowed out, but
the moment it was placed with the mouth upward it always I
became full. He then emptied it, allowing any one who j
chose to inspect it. This being done, he desired that one
of the party would fill it. His request was obeyed; still, |
when he reversed the jar not a drop of water flowed, and
upon looking into it, to our astonishment, it was empty. I
was allowed to fill it myself; still, upon taking it up, after
turning it over, all was void within ; yet the ground around
was perfectly dry, so that how the water disappeared, and
where it had been conveyed, were problems which none of us j
were able to explain. The vessel employed was one of the
common rough earthenware of the country, and, in order to
convince us it had not been specially constructed for the
purpose of aiding his clever deceptions, he permitted it to be j
broken in our presence. The fragments were then handed j
round for the inspection of his highness and the party pre- j
sent with him.
“ The next thing done was still more extraordinary. A j
large basket was produced, under which was put a lean,
hungry female dog; after the lapse of about a minute, the i
basket was removed, and she appeared with a litter of seven j
puppies. These were again covered, and upon raising the magic
basket a goat was presented to our view. This was succeeded
by a pig, in the full vigour of existence, but which, after
being covered for the usual time appeared with its throat
cut. It was, however, mystically restored to life under the j
shadow of the wicker covering. What rendered these
sudden changes so extraordinary was that no one stood near
the basket but the juggler, who raised and covered the animals
with it. When he raised the basket there was nothing to
be seen under it; and what became of the different animals
which had figured in this singular deception was a question
that puzzled us all.
“ A man now took a small bag full of brass balls which
he threw into the air one by one. None of them appeared
to return. When he had discharged the last, there was a
pause of a full minute. He then made a variety of motions
with his hands, at the same time grunting forth a kind of j
barbarous chant. In a few seconds the balls were seen to j
fall one by one until the whole were replaced in the bag.
This was repeated half-a-dozen times. No one was allowed
to come near him while this was performed.
“ A gaunt-looking Hindoo next stepped forward, and,
opening a box, produced a cobra-di-capello, not less than
five feet long, and as big as an infant’s wrist. He stood
apart,MkQ his predecessor, at some distance. He then, as
it appeared to us, took the snake, and putting its tail into
his mouth, gradually lowered it into his stomach until
nothing but the head appeared to project from his lips*
when, with a sudden gulp, he seemed to complete the
disgusting process of deglutition, and to secure the odious
reptile within his body. After the expiration of a few
seconds he opened his mouth and gradually drew forth the
j snake, which he replaced in the box, making a salaam to
! the rajah.
“The next performer spread upon the ground a cloth
about the size of a sheet; after a while it seemed to be
! gradually raised: upon taking it up there appeared three
| pine apples growing under it, which were cut and presented
| to the spectators. This is considered a common juggle, and
j yet it is perfectly inexplicable.”
If this account be true, then, how very far do these
itinerant Hindoos exceed and excel the Maskelynes, Cookes,
| Boscos, Lynns, et hoc genus omne? Of all the travellers
| who have witnessed these surprising feats, I know of none
i who venture an exposition, whereas there are but few of the
| tricks of the European conjurer but can be quickly dis-
I covered. Granted that these things do take place, then it
| seems to be there are but three explanations : (1.) It is
| conjuring pure and simple—dependent for its success on the
| well-known fact that the hand is quicker than the eye.
Here, however, is the difficulty, that there are no con-
j federates concealed behind curtains at the rear of public
I platforms with shaded lights and oblique tables, the surface
! placed just above the range of vision. (2.) If not jugglery,
| then does it all come within the domain of Spiritual mani-
i festations ? If so, how immeasurably are these people in
| advance] of us. No dark seances and cabinets, but every¬
thing in the open field or public street, with a thousand
watchful eyes upon them. (3.) A final suggestion is some¬
times offered that the spectators are in a mesmeric condition,
and fancy that they see what the juggler describes, when in
reality there is nothing of the kind. This seems the most
difficult solution of any, and one I would refuse to accept
until I know either more or less of mesmerism than I do
| already. Here, however, are certain facts to grapple with,
j They are not mere theories like some of those of the Theoso-
I phists, and should be accounted for on one basis or another.
! Not a few of your readers have travelled, and perhaps have
| seen these things for themselves. Can they enlighten us?
| Perhaps your Bath correspondent, “ H. M.” (who has put
j such a different complexion on the coffee-coloured “ Todas,”
| to that depicted by the author of Isis Unveiled), having
] sojourned in Hindoostan, may be inclined to vouchsafe some
; I explanation of these Asiatic marvels. T. J.
1 | Among those who contributed to the fund to secure Dr. Slade’s
I ! presence in St. Petersburg, were Mr. Aksakof, Professor Boutlerof,
i ] General Solovzdf, General Melnikof, Prince Paskewitch, Mr. Balashfiif,
[ | and Mr. Bashmakof.
II Mesmerism,—The Lake District journals contain several lengthy
[ i biographical notices of the late Miss Aglionby, the eldest daughter of
] | Major Aglionby, M.P. for East Cumberland, and chairman of Quarter
) i Sessions for the county. It is stated “ the deceased lady was remark-
[ ! able for the vigour and originality of her character. For many years
, | she was a devoted member of the Homan Catholic Church, but she had
> ! been, we imagine, very much under the influence of Miss Martineau.
[ i We have seen a number of letters, dated from Wigton, Allonby,
i ! Scarborough, and the Nunnery, in the summer of 1848, in which she
i ] records the results of ‘ mesmeric phenomena ’ on herself. She was
[ j induced to try mesmerism in consequence of weakness remaining from a
) | feverish attack in the previous winter, and the experiments were made
1 i by Mr. Nixon, of Wigton, her medical adviser. She boasts in one of
[ I her letters that she had converted Mr. Nixon to that system of
i i treatment. He mesmerised her every day for a fortnight, and during
1 I those days she notes that before he reached the house she could tell
i | sympathetically that he was on his way. She records that she derived
i ] very great benefit from mesmerism, and she was able to confer even
1 | greater benefit upon a girl named Jane Bitson, whom she says she
i | cured of neuralgic pains and palpitation of the heart. Miss Aglionby
i | was widely famous for her splendid breed of mastiffs and St. Bernards,
[ I the finest in the country, for which she carried off the chief prizes at the
great dog shows. Her family was one of the oldest in Cumberland.”
140
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 22; 1878
(grorresponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; i
copies should be kept by the writers.]
MADAME BLAVATSKY ON INDIAN METAPHYSICS.
Sib,—Two peas in the same pod are the traditional symbol of
mutual resemblance, and the time-honoured simile forced itself upon
me when I read the twin letters of our two masked assailants in your
paper of February 22nd. In substance they are so identical that one
would suppose the same person had written them simultaneously with
his two hands, as Paul Morphy will play you two games of chess, or j
Kossuth dictate two letters at once. The only difference between
these two letters—lying beside each other on the same page, like two
babes in one crib—is, that “ M.A. (Cantab’s) ” is brief and courteous,
while “ Scrutator’s” is prolix and uncivil.
By a strange coincidence both these sharpshooters fire, from behind
their secure ramparts, a shot at a certain “ learned occultist ” over the
head of Mr. C. C. Massey, who quoted some of that personage’s views,
in a letter published May 10th, 1876. "Whether in irony or otherwise, I
they hurl the views of this f* learned occultist” at the heads of Colonel j
Olcott and myself, as though they were missiles that would floor us j
completely. Now, the “ learned occultist ” in question is not a whit j (
more or less learned than your humble servant, for the very simple ]
reason that we are identical. The extracts published by Mr. Massey, !
by permission, were contained in a letter from myself to him. More- j
over, it is now before me, and, save one misprint of no consequence, I
do not find in it a word that I would wish changed. What is said
there I repeat now over my own signature; the theories of 1876 do not |
contradict those of 1878 in any respect, as I shall endeavour to prove, j
after pointing out to the impartial reader the quaking ground upon
which our two critics stand. Their arguments against Theosophy— !
certainly “ Scrutator’s ”—are Uke a verdant moss, which displays a
velvety carpet of green, without roots, and with a deep bog below.
When a person enters a controversy over a fictitious signature, he j
should be doubly cautious, if he would avoid the accusation of abusing
the opportunity of the mask to insult his opponents with impunity.
Who, or what, isScrutator ” ? A clergyman, a medium, a lawyer, a
philosopher, a physician (certainly not a metaphysician), or what? |
Quien sale ? He seems to partake of the flavour of all, and yet to j
grace neither. Though his arguments are all interwoven with sentences I
quoted from our letters, yet in no case does he criticise merely what is IB
written by us, but what he thinks we may have meant, or what the I >
sentences might imply. Drawing his deductions, then, from what I
existed only in the depths of his own consciousness, he invents phrases
and forces constructions upon which he proceeds to pour out his wrath, j
Without meaning to be in the least personal—for, though propagating j
“ absurdities ” with “ utmost effrontery,” I would feel sorry and
ashamed to be as impertinent with “ Scrutator” as he is with us— j
yet, hereafter, when I see a dog chasing the shadow of his own tail, I j
will think of his letter.
In my doubts as to what this assailant might be, I invoked j
the help of Webster to give me a possible clue in the pseudonym.
“ Scrutator,” says the great lexicographer, ?* is one who scru¬
tinises, and “ scrutiny ” he derives from the Latin scrutari, ** to
search even to the rags;” which scrutari itself he traces back j
to a Greek root, meaning “ trash, trumpery.” In this ultimate
analysis, therefore, we must regard the nom de plume, while very
applicable to his letter of Feb. 22nd, very unfortunate for himself; I
for, at best, it makes him a sort of literary chiffonnier, probing in the
dust-heap of the language for bits of hard adjective to fling at us. I I
repeat that, when an anonymous critic accuses two persons of “ slan- I
derous imputations ” (the mere reflex of his own imagination), and of I
“ unfathomable absurdities,” he ought, at least, to make sure (1) that he
has thoroughly grasped what he is pleased to call the “ teachings ” of i
his adversaries; and (2) that his own philosophy is infallible. I may !
add, furthermore, that when that critic permits himself to call the j
views of other people—not yet half digested by himself—“ unfathomable
absurdities,” he ought to be mighty careful about introducing as argu- j
ments into the dissension sectarian absurdities far more ‘ ‘ unfathomable,’ ’ j
and which have nothing to do with either science or philosophy. “ I
suppose,” gravely argues “ Scrutator,” “ a babe’s brain is soft, and a
quite unfit tool for intelligence, otherwise Jesus could not have lost His I
intelligence when He took upon Himself the body and the brain of a
babe.” (! ! ?) The very opposite of Oliver Johnson evidently, this
Jesus-babe of “ Scrutator’s.”
Such an argument might come with a certain force in a discussion
between two conflicting dogmatic sects, but if picked “ even to rags,” it j
seems but “utmost effronteryto use “Scrutator’s” own compli- j
mentary expression—to employ it in a philosophical debate, as if it j
were either a scientific or historically proved fact! If I refused, at the
very start, to argue with our friend “M.A. (Oxon.),” a man whom I
esteem and respect as I do few in this world, only because he put j
forward a “ cardinal dogma,” I shall certainly lose no time in debating
Theosophy with a tattering Christian, whose “ scrutinising ” faculties j
have not helped him beyond the acceptance of the latest of the world’s
Avatars in all its unphilosophical dead-letter meaning, without even
suspecting its symbolical significance. To parade in a would-be philo¬
sophical debate the exploded dogmas of any church, is most ineffectual, j
and shows, at best, a great poverty of resource. Why does not
“ Scrutator ” address his refined abuse, ex cathedra, to the Royal Society,
whose Fellows doom to annihilation every human being, Theosophist or
Spiritualist, pure or impure ?
With crushing irony he speaks of us as “ our teachers.” Now, I
remember having distinctly stated in a previous letter that we have not
offered ourselves as teachers, but, on the contrary, decline any such |
cffice—whatever may be the superlative panegyric of my esteemed I
friend, Mr. O’Sullivan, who not only sees in me “ a Buddhist priestess ” (!)
but, without a shadow of warrant of fact credits me with the foundation
of the Theosophical Society and its branches! Had Colonel Olcott been
half as “ psyehologised ” by me as a certain American Spiritualist
paper will have it, he would have followed my advice and refused to
make public our “ views,” even though so much and so often importuned
in different quarters. With characteristic stubbornness, however, he
had his own way, and now reaps the consequence of having thrown his
bomb into a hornet’s nest. Instead of being afforded opportunity for a
calm debate, we get but abuse, pure and simple—the only weapon of
partisans. Well, let us make the best of it, and join our opponents in
picking the question “ to rags.” Mr. C. C. Massey comes in for his
share, too, and, though fit to be a leader himself, is given by “ Scru¬
tator ” a chief!
Neither of our critics seems to understand our views (or his own) so
little as “ Scrutator.” He misapprehends the meaning of elementary,
and makes a sad mess of spirit and matter. Hear him say that
elementary “ is a new-fangled and ill defined term . . . not yet two
years old 1” This sentence alone proves that he forces him¬
self into the discussion, without any comprehension of the
subject at issue. Evidently, he has neither read the mediaeval,
nor modern, Kabalists. Henry Kunrath is as unfamiliar to him
as the Abbe Constant. Let him go to the British Museum, and
ask for the Amphithealrum Sapientice JEternce of Kunrath. He will
find in it illustrated engravings of the four great classes of elementary
spirits, as seen during an evocation of ceremonial magic, by the Magus
who lifts the Veil of Isis. The author explains that these are dis¬
embodied vicious men, who have parted with their divine spirits, and
become as beasts. After reading this volume “ Scrutator ” may profit¬
ably consult Eliphas Levi, whom he will find using the words “Ele¬
mentary Spirits ’’ throughout his Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie, in
both senses in which we have employed it. This is especially the case
where (vol. 1 p. 262, seq.) he speaks of the evocation of Apollonius of
Tyana by himself. Quoting from the greatest Kabalistic authorities, he
says“ When a man has lived well, the astral cadaver evaporates like
a pure incense as it mounts towards the higher regions; but if a man
has lived in crime, his astral cadaver, which holds him prisoner, seeks
again the objects of his passions, and desires to resume its earthly life.
It torments the dreams of young girls, bathes in the vapour of spilt blood,
and wallows about the places where the pleasures of his life flitted by;
it watches without ceasing over treasures which it possessed and buried;
it wastes itself in painful efforts to make for itself material organs
(materialise itself) and live again. But the astral elements attract and
absorb it; its memory is gradually lost, its intelligence weakens, all its
being dissolves. . . . The unhappy wretch loses thus in succession all
the organs which served its sinful appetites. Then it (this astral body,
this “ soul,” this all that is left of the once living man) dies a second
time and for ever, for it then loses its personality and its memory..
Souls which are destined to live, but which are not yet entirely purified,
remain for a longer or shorter time captive in the astral cadaver, where
they are refined by the odic light, which seeks to assimilate them to
itself and dissolve. It is to rid themselves of this cadaver, that suf¬
fering souls sometimes enter the bodies of living persons, and remain
there for a time in a state which the Kabalists call embryonic
{embryonnat'). These are the aerial phantoms evoked by necromancy ;
(and, I may add, the “ materialised spirits,” evoked by the unconscious
necromancy of incautious mediums, in cases where the forms are not
transformations of their own doubles); these are larvae, substances dead
or dying, with which one places himself in rapport.” Further, Levi
says {Op. sit. p. 164) “ the astral light is saturated with elementary
souls. . . . Yes, yes, these spirits of the elements do exist. Some wan¬
dering in their spheres, others trying to incarnate themselves, others,
again, already incarnated and living on earth: these are vicious and
imperfect men.”
And in the face of this testimony (which he can find in the British
Museum, two steps from the office of The Spiritualist!) that since the
middle ages the Kabalists have been writing about elementaries,
and their potential annihilation, Scrutator permits himself to arraign
Theosophists for their “effrontery” in foisting upon Spiritualists a
“ new-fangled and ill-defined term” which is “ not yet two years old" !!
In truth, we may say that the idea is older than Christianity, for it is
found in the ancient Kabalistic books of the Jews. In the olden time
they defined three kinds of “ souls ”; the daughters of Adam, the
daughters of the angels, and those of sin; and in the book of The
Revolution of the Souls three kinds of “ spirits ” (as distinct from
material bodies) are shown—the captive, the wandering, and the free
spirits. If Scrutator were acquainted with the literature of Kabalism,
he would know that the term elementary applies not only to one
principle, or constituent part, to an elementary primary substance,
but also embodies the idea which we express by the term elemental
—that which pertains to the four elements of the material world, the
first principles or primary ingredients. The word “ elemental,” as
defined by Webster, was not current at the time of Kunrath, but the
idea was perfectly understood. The distinction has been made, and
the term adopted by Theosophists for the sake of avoiding confusion.
The thanks we get are that we are charged with propounding, in
1878, a different theory of the “elementaries” from that of 18761
Does anything herein stated, either as from ourselves, or Kunrath, or
Levi, contradict the statement of the “learned occultist” that “each
atom, no matter where found, is imbued with that vital principle called
spirit:” or that each grain of sand, equally with eachminutest atom of
the human body, has its inherent latent spark of the divine light”?
Not in the least. “ M.A., Cantab.,” asks, “ How, then, can a man lose
this divine light, in part or in whole, as a rule, before death, if each
minutest atom of the human body has its inherent latent spark of the
divine light ? ” Italicising some words, as above, but omitting to
emphasize the one important word of the sentence, i,e.f “ latent,” which
March 22, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
141
contains the key to the whole mystery. In the grain of sand, and each
atom of the human material body, the spirit is latent, not active; hence,
being but a correlation of the highest light, something concrete as com¬
pared with the purely abstract, the atom is vitalised and energised by
spirit, without being endowed with distinct consciousness. A grain of
sand, as every minutest atom, is certainly “imbued with that vital
principle called spirit.” So is every atom of the human body, whether
physical or astral, and thus every atom of both, following the law of
evolution, whether of objective or semi-concrete astral matter, will have
to remain eternal throughout the endless cycles, indestructible in their
primary, elementary constituents. But will “ M.A., Cantab.,” for all
that, call a grain of sand, or a human nail-paring, consciously immortal 1
Does he mean us to understand him as believing that a fractional part,
as a fraction, has the same attributes, capabilities, and limitations as
the whole ? Does he say that because the atoms in a nail-paring are
indestructible as atoms, therefore the body, of which the nail formed
a part, is of necessity, as a conscious whole, indestructible and
immortal ?
Our opponents repeat the words Trinity, Body, Soul, Spirit, as they
might say the cat, the house, *and the Irishman inhabiting it—three
perfectly dissimilar things. They do not see that, dissimilar as the
three parts of the human trinity may seem, they are in truth but corre¬
lations of the one eternal essence—which is no essence, but unfor¬
tunately the English language is barren of adequate expression—and,
though they do not see it, the house, the physical Irishman, and the cat
are, in their last analysis, one. I verily begin to suspect that they
imagine that spirit and matter are two, instead of one! Truly, says
Vishnu Barva Brahmachari, in one of his essays in Marathi (1869),
that “ the opinion of the Europeans that matter is ‘ Pad&rtha ’—(an
equivalent for the ‘ pada,’ or word ‘ Abhava,’ l.e., Ahey, composed of
two letters, * Ahe,’ meaning is, and ‘ nahin,’ not)—whereas ‘ Abhava ’ is
no * Pad&rtha,” is foolishly erroneous 1 Kant, Schopenhauer, and Hart¬
mann seem to have written to little effect, and Kapila will be soon
pronounced an antiquated ignoramus. Without at all ranging myself
under Schopenhauer’s banner, who maintains that in reality there is
neither spirit nor matter, yet I must say that if ever he were studied,
Theosophy would be better understood.
But can one really discuss metaphysical ideas in an European
language ? I doubt it. We say “ spirit,” and behold, what confusion
it leads to ? Europeans give the name spirit to that something which
they conceive as apart from physical organisation, independent of
corporeal, objective existence; and they call spirit also the airy,
vaporous essence, alcohol. Therefore, the New York reporter who
defined a] materialised spirit as “ frozen whisky,” was right, in his way.
A copious vocabulary, indeed, that has but one term for God and for
alcohol! With all their libraries of metaphysics, European nations
have not even 'gone to the trouble of inventing appropriate words to
elucidate metaphysical ideas. If they had, perhaps one book in every
thousand would have sufficed to really instruct the public, instead of
there being the present confusion of words, obscuring intelligence, and
utterly hampering the orientalist, who would expound his philosophy in
English. Whereas, in the latter language, I find but one word to
express, perhaps, twenty different ideas; in the Eastern tongues, espe¬
cially Sanskrit, there are twenty words or more to render one idea in its
various shades of meaning.
We are accused of propagating ideas that would surprise the
“average” Buddhist. Granted, and I. will liberally add that the
average Brahminist might be equally astonished. We never said that
we were either Buddhists or Brahminists in the sense of their popular
exoteric theologies. Buddha, sitting on his lotus, or Brahma, with any
number of teratological arms, appeal to us as little as the Catholic
Madonna, or the Christian personal God, which stare at us from
cathedral walls and ceilings. But neither Buddha nor Brahma repre¬
sent to their respective worshippers the same ideas as these Catholic
icons, which we regard as blasphemous. In this particular, who dares
say that Christendom, with its boasted civilisation, has outgrown the
fetichism of the Fijians ? When we see Christians and Spiritualists
speaking so flippantly and confidently about God and the materiali¬
sation of “ spirit,” we wish they might be made to share a little in the
reverential ideas of the old Aryas.
We do not write for “ average ” Buddhists, or average people of any
sort. But I am quite willing to match any tolerably educated Buddhist
or Brahmin against the best metaphysicians of Europe, to compare views
on God and on man’s immortality.
The ultimate abstract definition of this—call it God, force, principle,
as you will—will ever remain a mystery to humanity, though it attain to
its highest intellectual development. The anthropomorphic ideas of
Spiritualists concerning spirit are a direct consequence of the anthro¬
pomorphic conceptions of Christians as to the Deity. So directly is
the one the outflow of the other, that “ Scrutator’s ” handiest argument
against the duality of a child and potential immortality, is to cite “ Jesus
who increased in wisdom as his brain increased.” Christians call God
an Infinite Being, and then endow Him with every finite attribute, such
as love, anger, benevolence, mercy! They call Him All-Merciful, and
preach eternal damnation for three-fourths of humanity, in every church;
All-Just, and the sins of this brief span of life may not be expiated by
even an eternity of conscious agony. Now, by some miracle of oversight
among thousands of mistranslations in the “ Holy ” Writ, the word
“ destruction,” the synonym of annihilation, was rendered correctly in
the King James’s version, and no dictionary can make it read either
damnation, or eternal torment. Though the Church consistently put
down the “ destructionists,” yet the impartial will scarcely deny that
they come nearer than their persecutors to believing what Jesus taught
and what is consistent with justice, in teaching the final annihilation of
the wicked.
To conclude, then, we believe that there is but one undefinable prin¬
ciple in the whole universe, which, being utterly incomprehensible by
)\ our finite intellects, we prefer rather to leave undebated, than to blas-
pheme its majesty with our anthropomorphic speculations. We believe
s I that all else which has being, whether material or spiritual, and all that
j | may have existence, actually or potentially in our idealism, emanates
(| from this principle. That everything is a correlation in one shape or
Si another, of this Will and Force; and hence, judging of the unseen by
) | the visible, we base our speculations upon the teachings of the genera-
< | tions of sages who preceded Christianity, fortified by our own reason.
SI I have already illustrated the incapacity of some of our critics to
) | separate abstract ideas from complex objects, by instancing the grain of
(| sand and the nail-paring. They refuse to comprehend that a philoso-
S | phical doctrine can teach that an atom imbued with divine light, or a
) I portion of the great Spirit, in its latent stage of correlation, may, not-
(i withstanding its reciprocal or corresponding similarity and relations to
(| the one indivisible whole, be yet utterly deficient in self-consciousness.
)! That it is only when this atom, magnetically drawn to its fellow-atoms,
c which had served in a previous state to form with it some lower complex
j S object, is transformed at last, after endless cycles of evolution, into man
I) —the apex of perfected being, intellectually and physically, on our
| ( planet—in conjunction with them becomes as a whole a living soul, and
j) | reaches the state of intellectual self-consciousness. “ A stone becomes
|) I a plant, a plant an animal, an animal a man, and man a spirit,” say
| < i the Kabalists. And here,"again, is the wretched necessity of translating
n by the word “ spirit” an expression which means a celestial, or rather
|) j ethereal, transparent man—something diametrically opposite to the man
m of matter, yet a man. But if man is the crown of evolution on earth,
| j | what is he in the initiatory stages of the next existences—that man who,
j) at his best, even when he is pretended to have served as a habitation for
| {1 the Christian God, Jesus is said by Paul to have been “ made a little
j j | lower than the angels ” ? But now we have every astral spook trans-
|) | formed into an “ angel ” ! I cannot believe that the scholars who write
v for your paper—and there are some of great intelligence and erudition
|)! who think for themselves; and whom exact science has taught that ex
|) | nihilo nihil jit; who know that every atom of man’s body has been
i \ | evolving by imperceptible gradations, from lower into higher forms,
| j j through the cycles—accept the unscientific and illogical doctrine that
1) the simple unshelling of an astral man transforms him into a celestial
! (i spirit and “ angel ” guide.
! i In Theosophical opinion a spirit is a ray, a fraction of the whole; and
i j | the Whole being Omniscient and Infinite, its fraction must partake, in
| {| degree, of the same abstract attributes. Man’s “ spirit ” must become
|) j the drop of the ocean, called “ Ishwara-Bhava ”—the “ I am one body,
11! together with the universe itself” (I am in my Father, and my Father
|)| is in me), instead of remaining but the “ Jiva-Bhava,” the body only.
iHe must feel himself not only a part of the Creator, Preserver, and
Destroyer, but of the soul of the three, the Parabrahma, who is above
these, and is the vitalising, energising, and ever-presiding Spirit. He
must fully realise the sense of the word “ Sahajanund,” that state of
perfect bliss in Nirv&na, which can only exist for the It, which has
| become co-existent with the “ formless and actionless present time.”
j This is the state called “ Vartamana,” or the “ Ever Still Present,” in
i which there is neither past nor future, but one infinite eternity of
present. Which of the controlling “ spirits,” materialised or invisible,
have shown any signs that they belong to the kind of real spirits known
as the “ Sons of Eternity ” ? Has the highest of them been able to tell
even as much as our own Divine Nous can whisper to us in moments when
there comes the flash of sudden pre-vision? Honest communicating
“intelligences” often answer to many questions, “We do not know;
this has not been revealed to us.” This very admission proves that,
wliile in many cases on their way to knowledge and perfection, yet they
are but embryonic, undeveloped “ spirits ; ” they are inferior even to
| some living Yogis, who, through abstract meditation, have united them¬
selves with their personal individual Brahma, their Atm&n, and hence
I have overcome the “ Adnayana,’’ or lack of that knowledge as to the
| intrinsic value of one’s “ self,” the Ego, or self-being, so recommended
by Socrates and the Delphic commandment.
London has been often visited by highly intellectual, educated Hindus,
j I have not heard of any one professing a belief in “ materialised
spirits ”—as spirits. When not tainted with Materialism, through
demoralising association with Europeans, and when free from super¬
stitious sectarianism, how would one of them, versed in the Vedanta,
regard these apparitions of the circle ? The chances are that, after going
the rounds of the mediums, he would say: “ Some of these may be sur¬
vivals of disembodied men’s intelligences, but they are no more spiritual
than the average man. They lack the knowledge of “ Dryananta,” and
evidently find themselves in a chronic state of “ Maya,” i.e., possessed
of the idea that “ they are that which they are not.” The “ Vartamana ”
has no significance for them, as they are cognizant but of the u Vishama ”
(that which, like the concrete numbers in mixed mathematics, applies
I to that which can be numbered). Like simple, ignorant mortals, they
i regard the shadow of things as the reality, and vice versa, mixing up
j the true light of the “Vyatireka” with the false light or deceitful
| appearance—the “Anvaya.” ... In what respect, then, are they
j higher than the average mortal? No, they are not spirits, not
“Devas,” . . . they are astral “Dasyoos ” . . .
Of course, all this will appear to “ Scrutator ” “ unfathomable ab-
| surdities,” for, unfortunately, few metaphysicians shower down from
| Western skies. Therefore, so long as our English opponents will
remain in their semi-Christian ideas, and not only ignore the old
i philosophy, but the very terms it employs to render abstract ideas; so
| long as we are forced to transmit these ideas in a general way—
| particularly being impracticable without the invention of special words
| —it will be unprofitable to push discussion to any great lengths. We
would only make ourselves obnoxious to the general reader, and receive
j from other anonymous writers such unconvincing compliments as
“ Scrutator ” has favoured us with. H. P. Blavatsky.
| Now York, March 7tb, 1877.
142
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 22, 1873.
JESUS, AND THE RECORDS OP HIS TIME.
Sir,—In a pamphlet published by Dr. Peebles, entitled Christ the
Corner Stone of Spiritualism, I find the following reference to myself:—
«. Unlike many uncultured Spiritualists, Gerald Massey, the poet and the |
scholar, said, in his music-hall lecture, Boston, January 18th:—‘ The ques- j
tion of the real personal existence of the man is settled for me by the refer- j
ences to Jesus in the Talmud, where we learn that he was with his teacher, !
Rabbi Joshua, in Egypt; and that he wrote a manuscript there which he ]
brought into Palestine. This manuscript was well known to the rabbis, and I
doubt not it contained the kernel of his teachings, fragments of which have j
floated down to us in the Gospels.’ ”
’Tis true that I made the statement, and now am desirous of with¬
drawing it as publicly as possible.
The truth is, that, like too many others, I took too much for granted.
I could find no extraneous proofs of any other Jesus, and, therefore, j
accepted this one as better than none at all. I found that Epiphanius |
— who was vitally concerned to know the truth, and who wrote i
“ against heresies ” at the end of the fourth century, gave this as the j
genealogy of Jesus:—
Jacob, called Panthera =
Mary = Joseph Cleophas j I
Jesus.* i | j
The pedigree is from Panther, or Panthera, the father of Ben- j (
Perachia’s pupil. Epiphanius then knew of no other person. Since j j
that time I have put the facts together for myself. Very briefly they i (j
are these. The Jesus of the Talmud was the pupil of Jehoshua, son of j !
Perachia, a Hebrew teacher, well known to history, who began to teach j j \
about 3606 (year of the world), or b.c. 154. This Kabbi was one of the j (|
Sanhedrim in the reign of Alexander Jannseus, who was King of the j j j
Jews b.c. 106. About this time there was a religious revolt, and some j j j
50,000 Jews were put to death; others fled. It is known that Ben- i (j
Perachia sought safety with his pupil in Egypt. It is related in the j j
Babylonish Gemara (Tract. Sanhedrim, fol. 107, and Sota, fol. 47) that j i j
during the persecution of the Rabbis by King Alexander Jannseus, | (j
Jehoshua, the son of Perachia, fled into Egypt, taking with him his jlj
pupil, Jesus, who was the son of Panthera, and that they both went j (;
to Alexandria, and were initiated into the Egyptian mysteries, or, as it j j j
was said, they became magicians: that is, magii.
I calculate from the data that Ben-Panthera was bom about 120, and j (i
died about 70 b.c., at the age assigned to Jesus by Irenseus, who affirms j i i
that “those who were conversant with John in Asia/’ to whom John j /!
himself “ conveyed the informationand “ all the Elders ” testified that ] (j
Jesus was teaching from his fortieth to his fiftieth year of age.f
Here again it is Ben-Panthera to nothing, and he lived and died a in
century before the time assigned to the Jesus of the Evangelists, whose j (j
age ranges from thirty to thirty-three years. j j
Jesus, the son of Panthera, was born of Stada, not Mary. He went j | j
into Egypt, and on his return was charged with being a heretic and a j (j
sorcerer. He was tried as a magician and perverter of the Jews, and j j j
condemned to death. On the eve of the Passover he was stoned to | j
death, and the body was hung on the tf accursed tree,” outside the city j (|
of Lud or Lydda.J This was the Jesus known as the “magician ” to i > j
to the Jew of Celsus. The Jews know nothing of any other. jjj
Now the Apologists have of late years come to the conclusion that one | (j
era is wrongly dated by some four years. But if Jesus Ben-Panthera 11
be the Jesus of the Gospels, then we are a whole century out of our | (j
reckoning. The only bridge across this chasm has been made by the i j |
assumption that the Jews, on their side of it, did wilfully fuse the two I;
Jesuses into one, and the Christians did the same thing ignorantly, j j |
Epiphanius certainly identified the one with the other, and I was j (!
misled by the common custom of fusing and confusing the two together, i /1
But no Jewish tradition declares, and some of the most learned | (I
authorities have always denied their identity. Rabbi Jechiels, in his j (I
discussion with the convert Nicolas, says that which is related in the j; i
Talmud of Jesus and the Rabbi Joshua, son of Perachia, contains no n
reference to him whom Christians honour as a God, and he shows how j 11
irreconcilable are the dates, these being in themselves sufficient to prove !) \
that Ben-Pantbera was not the Christian Jesus, of whom the Jews had i (j
no knowledge whatever, except such as in later times they gathered j (!
from the Gospels. This is well witnessed by Origen, who tells the j j j
Jews and taunts them with the fact that they know nothing of Jesus ! 11
of Nazareth except what they learned from the Christians. This is (
the exact echo of what they assert, so that the evidence is doubled. |) j
The Mishna was compiled by the Sea of Galilee, at Tiberias, on the j (j
spot—the very scene of the miracles and teachings ; various Rabbins !) j
lived at the time whose words were written down in the Mishna, yet |) j
there is an absolute and utter silence respecting Jesus of Nazareth, j (|
His works, His words, His personal existence are as unknown to the j > j
Jewish Rabbins of the Mishna as they were to Philo. Therefore, the j (!
“question of the real personal existence of the man” is no longer settled i (!
for me by the references to Jesus in the Talmud. I now know that Jesus j >!
Ben-Panthera can no longer be fused and confused with him “ whom j) j
Christians honour as a God.” jjj
In passing, it would be interesting to ascertain from those mediums !) j
who are so familiar with Jesus, which it is who communicates with j c!
them ? Is it Ben-Panthera, or was he ever known by the, name of j S j
Khunsu-Nefer-Hept ? I am asking this seriously, as I have been j > j
struck with one or two things in the reports of mediumistic doings. ! (|
For example, it was lately announced that some “ Oriental ” (useful j j j
word that) control or materialisation gave the name of “ A hi.” And i) i
this was the special name of the Egyptian Messiah Horus, who was
“Ahi,” the supporter and sustainer of his father—“Ahi” is Egyptian
for “ the supporter ; ” and, from the description, I thought it possible
some spirit (elementary or not) had put in an Egyptian appearance!
The writer spoke of some peculiar figures. In all cases these should
be noted down. This is the resurrection day of Egypt, and, according
to our theories, there is likely to be a response from the other side. I
feared, however, to mention this lest a very thin partition might be
perforated and a deluge let in. We don’t want the Past to be had for
the asking. Another case:—The name given by one of Dr. Monck’s
manifestations is the Mahoudi. This is Egyptian; it may have gone
into Arabic, but is curiously Egyptian under the circumstances. The
Egyptian, however, has no “ d,” but with the “ t ” “ ti ” is the plural
terminal of Mahaut, and the Mahauti mean a clan, a company—as a
group of courtiers or a family clan. Dr. Monck’s “Mahauti ” appears
to include a whole clan. Another instance occurs in the case of David
Duguid’s hieroglyphs. Many of these are real. I don’t think any
Egyptologist would make out a message, but this is the point. He is
said to have formed them as fast as ordinary letters, which I should be
unable to do with a lifetime of practice. So that my question may not
be so remote as it seems.
It is but fair I should intimate to the “ elementaries ” that the
means of proof, however little known and unexpected, are still extant
on our side, how dumb Egypt has recovered its lost voice again.
Lastly. I do not suppose that The Spiritualist, or Spiritualism,
penetrates far amongst the Hebrews. Yet we never know who is
secretly listening, and I want to get at a good Talmudic Hebraist, and
also at a pamphlet written by the Rabbi Salman Zevi, * in which he
went into the subject of the “Two Jesuses,” and furnished “Ten
Reasons” why the Jesus of the Talmud was not the Jesus of the
Gospels, who was claimed by the Christians as their God, and by the
Gnostics as their Horus.f Can any one help me ?
Gerald Massey.
[We do not intend to open these pages to any theological controversy, so
writers on the other side of this interesting question are requested to confine
themselves, as Mr. Massey has done, to alleged historical facts alone.—Ed.]
SPIRITUALISM IN HULL.
Sir,—I arrived here from Glasgow, after a tedious ride. My first
inquiry, as soon as I had a chance of looking around, was naturally,
were there any Spiritualists in Hull 1 and if so, where did they hide
themselves from public gaze ?
The first step in this direction was to go to the principal stationers
in the town, to order The Spiritualist and Medium to be supplied to
me during my stay. From the proprietor I ascertained that he sup¬
plied to order some forty of these papers to persons whom he supposed
were Spiritualists, but he was not aware of any organised movement in
the town.
Several attempts have been made at organisation in Hull, and in
every instance have failed. Public speakers have been invited, but
little or no good resulted from their presence, so far as can be ascer¬
tained. The expenses fell upon private individuals but ill-prepared to
sustain the burthen.
Dr. Seaton was invited to aid the cause with his oratory and pre¬
sence, and he cordially responded. The town was placarded, the
lectures well advertised, but, notwithstanding all these efforts, the
attendance at the lectures was meagre in the extreme, so much so that
the last was delivered to a small audience of ten persons. But now
the good doctor has ceased to lecture to, but occasionally at, Spirit¬
ualists, the result, as far as attendance is concerned, is much more
pleasing. It is just seven weeks ago since that talented orator preached
here in a Primitive Methodist Chapel, and hundreds were turned away
from the door.
There are four circles in Hull. A “ school” is held every Wednes¬
day night, at Mr. Bland’s, 2, Caroline-street. The “ school ” is the
only public form of meeting held here; strangers are invited to be
present; members can bring friends; every member is a “ teacher ”;
the subject of Spiritualism is discussed, and becomes “Christian,”
“ Progressive,” or “ Scientific,” according to the standpoint of each
“ teacher.”
Mr. Bland has also a library of some forty volumes, which will make
a handsome nucleus of a library, in the event of the formation of a
society, which is contemplated. I may mention that Mr. Bland kindly
gives up the use of his parlours for the use of the Spiritualists and
their friends free of charge.
There are, I believe, two seances held weekly at a Mr. Parsons’, on
Tuesdays and Fridays, to which strangers are admitted, when properly
introduced. Every Sunday night a seance is held at Mr. Bland’s.
On Sunday night last there were thirty-two persons present, too large
a number to hold the usual seance, especially as the greater proportion
were strangers. Mr. Bland occupied the evening with a pleasing
lecture on his early experiences connected with Spiritualism ; some of
these experiences were very interesting, dating back some twenty-
six years. He said, in the course of his lecture, that when his attention
was called to “ table-turning,” he thought he would see what could
be done in that way himself, so he invited to his house a number of
friends; some twenty-six people were present to witness the first ex¬
periment. The table used was a round-topped, three-legged, kitchen
table. Six persons sat at the table, and the rest stood around anxiously
watching for something to turn up—and something did—the table
turned up : yes, it moved, and moved with a vengeance. All were
astonished : it was very wonderful.
But table-turning soon lost its attractions, after learned men ex-
* Adv. Hoar. Lib. 3 ; Hoer. 68,7. .
t Irenaw Against Heresies, B. 2, ch. xxii. 5.)
j Bab Gemava to the Mishna of Tract. Sabbath, fol. 67, ib., fol. 104.
* Eisenmenger: Neuentdektes Judenthum. Konigsberg, 1711. Yol. i., 231-7,
t Irenceus Against Heresies,
March 22, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 143
plained how it was done—it was “ animal magnetism ” that did it. Yet j j
such experiments, simple as they appeared, were the thin edge of the i j
wedge of the Spiritualism which was to break through the creedal |{
logs of English theology, and the heavy timbers of materialism, and let j|
the light of spirit penetrate their midst. ] (
About two years subsequent to the “ table-turning ” experiment j (
referred to, he dated his commencement as an investigator of Spirit- i j
ualism. He sat with a friend patiently, for a considerable period, and j)
the result of the investigation might be stated thus.; He found it was i
not necessary to join hands to form an imaginary “circuit”; the
table sometimes moved without contact. The information received was j
superior and beyond the knowledge of the circle, and the “force”
which moved the table also answered questions, and claimed to be
** spirit.” . . . 1
Such was the undoubted evidence obtained in twenty-six years’ 1
patient inquiry ; he knew it was spirit—disembodied human spirit— '
and now he could say he was a Spiritualist in head and heart, in deed j
and in truth, and he would strongly recommend the investigation of j
Spiritualism to their consideration. It would teach them to be patient j
in hope, to have higher conceptions of duty, it would banish the dark
clouds of materialism, unfetter them from creeds, dispel the fear of J
death, aid them to w ork out their own salvation and to worship God |
in spirit and in truth. The lecture was well received.
The Hull Spiritualists inaugurated a series of Sunday services and j
public lectures, commencing on Sunday, the 17th of March, at Foresters’ !
Hall. James Coates.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP SPIRITUALISTS. j)S
Sir,—May I ask you kindly to allow space for a few lines in reference j (I
to two matters in your report of the last Council meeting of the British ] / j
National Association of Spiritualists ? • ! I
First,—In the permission given to Dr. Peebles due regard was paid to j (j
the wish of several members of the Association that their names should 11 j
not in any way become public. This was specially guarded against j I j
when the subject was before the Council. In the absence of any j J j
reference to this in your report, and especially as no mention is made of j / j
the object for which the permission was granted, it might seem as J
though the Association was guilty of what might result in a breach of j j
faith towards the members in question. /1
Second.—As to the Agenda. The ‘ ‘ five or six ” should refer to the i (1
number of extracts from letters which I read. I think I mentioned |)|
that the number of persons, members of the Association and others, \)
who had offered to take copies for distribution was much larger; it was, (j
in fact, over twenty. j J!
I shall be much obliged if you will find room for the above. (|
Edwd, T. Bennett, (
Richmond, March 17th, 1878. (
[Endless petty details at meetings we do not report; they have no interest j r j
to the public, and would fill a dozen journals. The subscribing of about i(|
eighteenpence a head per month, by a few anonymous persons is not of public j \ j
interest. We should imagine that if Mr. Peebles is furnished with the names I > j
of those who do not want their names known, or if he should exhibit to any- | f I
body the larger list given him confidentially, there would be a breach of faith. (!
—Ed.]   I I
“ISIS UNVEILED.” jlj
Sjr,—Mr. Gerald Massey, in the late hysterical effort to rid himself I) |
of some of his apparently indigestible and uncomfortable knowledge of j j j
the subject of Egyptian culture, in the pages of The Spiritualist news- j (j
paper, has fallen into an error which I proceed to point out in the i S j
following brief extract from page 415 of Lempriere’s Bibliotheca i(j
Classica, revised by William Park, M.A., librarian of the University of m
Glasgow. Speaking of the statue of Memnon, Lempriere says : “ It had m
the wonderful property of uttering a melodious sound, like the snapping n
of a harp string, as soon as the first rays of the morning fell on it; (
but at the setting of the sun, and during the night, it uttered very |)l
lugubrious sounds. Cambyses, king of Persia, during the havoc which 111
he made amongst the temples of Egypt, when he invaded the country, i (j
wreaked his vengeance on the person whom this statue represented, by m
causing it to be broken and thrown upon the ground, but its wonderful j j |
power of speech still remained, and the superstition of the people was |(i
more firmly riveted to it than ever, when even in its mutilated state it j)j
did not cease to welcome the first smile of its beautiful mother, nor to | j i
bemoan her absence during the gloomy watches of the night. This j(j
extraordinary phenomenon was witnessed by some of the most exalted j) |
and illustrious men in the world.” “ The upper part of the statue,” he J(|
adds, “ may be seen in the gallery of the British Museum.”
Without pretending to lay claim to any of those “ literary qualifi¬
cations ” which Mr. Massey very properly “ fails to recognise,” but of
which, if the idea were not too preposterous, and he were not writing of
me, I should judge that, almost unconsciously to himself, he felt some¬
what jealous, it may be remarked, that I have even had the inconceiv¬
able presumption to precede Mr. Gerald Massey in that field, where, to
imitate his own questionable style of writing, he appears as yet to be
wandering in “ Egyptian darkness; ” and the History of Religions, of
which I was not the author, but the humble translator, commended itself
for its profundity and impartiality, even to the mind and judgment of
“ Mr. Bradlaugh,’’ in whose presence Colonel Olcott has had the temerity,
according to Mr. Massey, to avow himself “ a Spiritualist of seventeen
years standing.”
Mr. Austin Holyoake, who staid with me for several weeks at Teign-
mouth, and frequently mentioned the attention that I was only too glad
to show him during his illness, in the pages of the National Reformer
for 1872, would have been only too happy were he now living, to
inform Mr. Gerald Massey that I am just about the last person to find
ault with another on the score of his religious proclivities. Had any
antlior, in attacking the Hindoos, been as unjust to them as Madame
Blavatsky has shown herself to be towards the Christians, I would have
defended them equally to the best of my poor ability, whenever per¬
mitted to do so, and it is because of my detestation of fanaticism among
believers of all faiths, that I find such fault with Madame Blavatsky
for endeavouring to awaken and nurse in Spiritualists the feeling that
she is professedly denouncing in Christians. As you tell me you wish
the discussion on Isis brought to an end, I will only add that the
greater part of the second volume teems with abuse of the Christians,
and at p. 9, Yol. I., in the chapter headed, “ Before the Veil ” (of the
Saitic Isis, by the way, it is inscribed “ My veil hath no mortal ever
raised”), we find Madame Blavatsky talking of our “unspiritual,
dogmatic, too often debauched, clergy.” Well, some of those gentlemen
who occasionally use the pages of The Spiritualist newspaper—
A. B. and D. D.,
Doctors and proctors of every degree,
Bishops inpartibus,
Masters in artibus,
best know how far their order merits this sweeping condemnation. They
certainly manage to keep their debaucheries very quiet, so perhaps those
Thibetans, Hindoos, and Egyptians, with whom, to quote Madame
Blavatsky’s own words, Yol. L, p. 42, “ The Theosophical Society has
established relations, in order to furnish authenticated reports of eccle¬
siastical crimes and misdemeanours,” will not derive so much benefit
and satisfaction from the subject, after all. Frederica Showers.
193, Seymour-place, 16th March.
Sir,—Without doubt the Indian Browns, Joneses, and Robinsons were
clever fellows four thousand years ago, but to adopt as a creed for life’s
guidance what sprang from the inner consciousness of those “Browns,”
with a dark age intervening, seems to me throwing brains away. If we
are to have creeds at all, better take to the one accepted in these parts,
which also had a dark age intervening between its origin and its latter
end. G.
A MATERIALISED SPIRIT.
Sir,—I am anxious to add my testimony to the very careful and
correct account given by Mr. Herbst of a seance held in Lamb’s
Conduit-street, in your issue of March 8th, page 116.
John King first proposed to me that he would show himself and
the medium (Mr. Williams) together in the cabinet. However, as he
had given me this test in my own house several times before, he gave
precedence to the stranger so lately arrived in this country. After
returning Mr. Herbst to his seat, John King took me by the hand,
threaded me through the chairs in the pitch darkness, and, leading me
into the cabinet, threw a brilliant light over himself, displaying his
features and bis dress from head to foot. He then threw his light
over the entranced medium, not only giving me a full view of him,
but desired me to pass my hand over him, which I did, from his head
to below his knees, and can bear testimony that Mr. Williams was
himself bodily there.
I have been so often met with the following remark when I have
described, as I have seen in my own house, the entranced medium and
John King standing over him with his light, “Oh, you may have
seen only the clothes of the medium lying on the sofa; your eyes
may have deceived you.”
Now, I have been privileged to add touch to sight, so that in this
case the remark is inadmissible. Charlotte Fite-Gerald.
19, Cambridge-stroet, Hyde Park-square, London.
Dr. Eugene Crowell is in California, but will shortly return to New York.
The article of Dr. Maurice Davies, on Devotional Spiritualism, has been
reprinted from these pages in the Memphis weekly spiritual periodical,
recently established in the Southern Stated of America.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, formerly of Manchester, but latterly one of the most
prominent and faithful advocates of Spiritualism in Australia, is about to visit
the United States.
In engaging professional mediums, it is important to ascertain how many
seances they have had previously the same day. The more they have had, the
weaker are their manifestations, in consequence of the previous exhaustion of
their vital power.
Alleged Clairvoyance in a Dog. — The Religio-Philosophical
Journal (Chicago) of February 2nd, 1878, says : “A small dog of ours
who was a cross of the water-spaniel, beautiful in appearance and
marked with large brown and white spots, and was a great favourite
in the family, had been taught as many tricks as a showman’s monkey.
What we are about to relate of him, is with the view of showing
that he was clairvoyant as well as intelligent and revengeful. Upon
one occasion he, being rather pugnacious, caused a large Newfound¬
land dog to turn upon and chastise him for his rashness. This punish¬
ment he never forgot, and upon every occasion that offered he was
ready to attack his overgrown enemy. We often wondered how he
knew the dog was in the neighbourhood. Upon one occasion, how¬
ever, the reason became very evident, for he was asleep behind the stove
in our back office, when all at once he became uneasy, sprang to his
feet, and barking furiously, ran to the front window (which was low
enough for him to look out), and continued to bark as if he saw the
j \: dog. Upon going to the front door immediately we observed that the
>1 Newfoundland dog had just passed the house, and was trotting up
j/i the pavement some houses above. We were careful at the time to
| j i notice that the wind was averse to his getting any scent of his
|>i antagonist, and as the front door was closed, and he being asleep, it
j(| was impossible for him to scent or see the dog—unless he did so
m clairvoyantly. But the idea of a dog being clairvoyant may seem
|) | ridiculous, yet we are satisfied that it was impossible for him to get
i(i his information in any other way than by the reaching out of his
' ' faculties clairvoyantly while asleep.—Wm. B. Fahnestock.”
144
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 22, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
BY EMILY KISLINGBUKY.
At the close of last year, M. Alexandre Aksakof, after
having borne, single-handed, the cost of bringing out the
German journal, Psychische Studien, during four years, in
addition to the translation and publication of fourteen works
on Spiritualism by the best English and American writers,
signified his intention of withdrawing from the work of
supplying Germany with a journal on a subject which had
found so few supporters. Before the article setting forth
M. Aksakof’s views, and giving a retrospect of his labours,
with a farewell address to his readers, had appeared in print,
the advent of Slade in Berlin, and his subsequent visit to
Leipzig, completely changed the current of affairs, and a
gentleman in Leipzig offered to share the burden of expense
with M. Aksakof, if he would consent to continue the pub¬
lication of Psychische Studien. To this M. Aksakof agreed,
and his article of seventeen pages—“ My Farewell Trans¬
formed into an Exhortatory Greeting”—is a kind of bugle-
call to Germany to aid in the work, of the reality and useful¬
ness of which he gives, here and elsewhere, the history and the
proof. In particular, he insists upon the necessity of personal
experiment by means of private circles, and cites the case of
Herr Gustav Wiese, in Wiesbaden, as an encouraging ex;-
ample, this gentleman having now all the same manifesta¬
tions in his own circle, that he witnessed with Mr. Williams
in London.
In the February number of the journal, some extracts are
given from Professor Zollner’s new work, Wissenschaftliche
Abhandlungen, which contains the account of that gentle¬
man’s sittings with Dr. Slade. Professor Zollner passes in
review the various theories of motion propounded from time
to time by Sir William Thomson, Professor Tait, Maxwell,
and the Edinburgh School, some of which he considers
utterly wild and unprovable, and contrasting very un¬
favourably with the more sober German school of natural
philosophers. He shows, nevertheless, that such men'as
Herschel and Newton, who were less arrogant on the score
of their intellectual achievements than the scientific men of
these days, did not attempt to solve all the mysteries of
Nature’s working by the agency of blind force, and that
those who took refuge in “a fortuitous concourse of atoms”
theory were looked upon as of unsound mind. Professor
Zollner proceeds to argue that impressions of sight are by
no means more to be trusted or taken into account than
the impressions due to other senses, and that all the senses
on which our impressions of space are founded are capable,
as some modern inventions—notably the telephone—go to
prove, of indefinite and almost inconceivable expansion.
The further development of these ideas, and their connection
with certain experiments with Dr. Slade, of which Professor
Zollner has been the first to show the high scjentific im¬
portance, will be given in succeeding numbers of Psychische
Studien.
M. Aksakof also publishes the account of his first stance
with Slade on his arrival in St. Petersburg. Having taken
his own slates and pencil, and the words which he desired
to have written, being actually written in his own hearing,
and on the under side of the slate, M. Asakoff says: “ There¬
fore the sentence was not written beforehand on Mr. Slade’s
knees, nor afterwards on the upper side of the slate with
his fingers.” Also, having himself broken off the crumb
of pencil, and having observed that the point of the same
was resting after the writing was finished on the last letter
written, and that it was worn away in so writing : u There¬
fore the writing was not produced by a pencil applied by
Slade, as Hermann and Co. (conjurors) are pleased to say.
It is enough for me to say, at present, that I consider the
phenomenon of direct writing, as exhibited by Mr. Slade,
to be completely demonstrated—at least for me.”
Reformirende Blatter is the title of a new monthly publi¬
cation issued by the Buda-Pest Society, and which has
taken the place of Reflexionen aus dev Geisterwelt, formerly
published by the same society, and suspended about six
months since. The Blatter consists entirely of commentaries
on the Gospel of St. John, written through the mediumship
of the Baroness Adelma von Yay. The name of this
honoured lady and diligent worker in our cause is of itself
a sufficient recommendation to readers, but the merits and
n| beauty of this work appear to be above the average of her
j] writings. She says: c< Faith is an attracting, unbelief a
| repelling force; therefore, by faith the grace of God and
! | Spiritual gifts are drawn to us, as by unbelief they remain
| far from us. This is a natural law, and not the effect of
i imagination. On this account unbelievers cannot receive
| Spiritual tests and signs, and therefore by virtue of this
| power which resides in faith, believers attract to themselves
| the greater number of Spiritual manifestations. Those full
j j of material learning despise faith, and consider it the first
U step into intellectual darkness; yet it is the first condition
j of knowledge; it is the letter A, where knowledge is B;
! for before we can know positively, we have the impulse to
j believe. Only those can comprehend the power of faith
| who do not live wholly the material life, but who perceive
| the light of God, that is their own spirit, with an unclouded
| understanding; for how can that which is crooked conceive
i of that which is upright ? ”
| It is to be hoped that the agitation produced by the
I German press in Berlin, Leipzig, Vienna, and elsewhere, on
j the subject of Slade’s manifestations, will not subside with-
| out leaving some lasting impression, and will lead to a
| practical investigation and pursuit of Spiritualism in all
j parts of Germany.
The Griterio Espiritista of January and February are
i before us. The January number contains a communication
| which purports to come from the spirit of the late Sefior
| Palet, suggesting various alterations in the social, moral,
| and political customs of Europe. The article, by Don R.
Caruana Berard, contains a popular account of the recent
discoveries in practical telegraphy, such as the telephone
| and phonograph. The February number has for its first
| article one by Viscount Torres-Solanot, entitled “Espiritistas
y Espiriteros ” (Spiritists and Spirit-bringers), in which we
think we recognise a new word in the second term. An
article on <( Spiritualism in Germany and Austria ” is trans¬
lated from Be Rots. The general news of the subject is as
usual, collected with the greatest care.
The Revista Espiritista, of Monteviedo, for January, con¬
tains an article by a lady, Dona Amelia D. y Soler, on the
subject of obsession, but named “Al fin lo conseguimos.”
J. de E. contributes an article, entitled “ Todo por la verdad”
(All for truth). The paper is especially devoted to the
ardent Reincarnationist platform, and indirectly alludes, in
an article extracted from the Buen Sentiolo, of Lerida, to the
Brahmanic conceptions of creation, preservation, and de¬
struction, which the Parsees divide into action, word, and
thought, and which the Spiritists term power, intelligence,
and love. The Aquinatic conception of action to sin in
cogitations, verbo, et opere, is that proved to have existed as
a thinkable reality centuries before Christ. The trimurti of
thought is thus coincident with the trimurti of mythology.
Soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists.—At the
soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists, held at 38, Great
Russell-street, London, on Wednesday evening, last week, Mr. A.
Calder, president of the association, read an address (which we published
last Friday), giving a retrospect of Spiritualism during the past year.
It was listened to with attention, and at the close elicited much applause.
Dr. Peebles then spoke of the marked progress'he had observed on his
return to England in the matter of Spiritualist meetings, and the
numbers who attended them. He felt that the knowledge of Spiritualism
was much more wide-spread than when he gave his first lectures in the
Cavendish Rooms, London, in the year 1869 ; he was glad of the
establishment of such a body as the National Association. The rest of
the evening was passed in music and conversation. Mr. R. Little gave
some performances from Bach on the piano, and Mrs. Ellis sang with
grace and true artistic skill Horace’s Ode to Chloe, set to music by Mr.
R. Little. Miss Maltby played an arrangement of Schumann’s Peasant
with great finish; and Miss Kislingbury sang the favourite song, The
Flower Girl, by Prince Poniatovsky. The soiree was attended, amongst
others, by Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, and Miss
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Miss Eno, Mr. and Miss Glendinning Mr. G. T.
Bennett, Mrs. and Miss Maltby, Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Ellis, Mr. A.
O’Shaughnessy, Mr. R. Little, Miss Houghton, Mr. E. D. Rogers, Dr.
Carter Blake, Mr. G. R. Tapp, the Misses Corner, and Mr. Herbst, of
Cape Town. Some highly-finished crayon drawings by Miss Maltby
were exhibited; her portraits of Dr. Slade and Mr. R. Cogman excited
much interest, and were pronounced to be excellent likenesses.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
F. 0. P.—Evidence of identity is of no use to the public, unless authenticated
by the names and addresses of the testifiers.
“ Scrutator,” otherwise “ M.A. (Cantab),” writes that his use of two signa¬
tures was not for any special purpose, and that any of the controversialists
may privately have his name and address.
Marcs 22, 1878.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,[also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints th* rnly authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition sec.. Yfy one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 15s.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the “early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals twere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the m&diumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation Is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala ” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt. 10s. od.; cheap edition,
7s. dd. •
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Oloott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiratu n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. Od.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE : OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6<L
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
' LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher,
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
?he Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
" ~ ’ II.
HI.
IV. „ .
V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crh
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . •
*. d.
0
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 0
6 0
7 6
7 6
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s di
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . , . 21 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.D. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B. A, Trim Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindj or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
1 planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 6
T3SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
T> EVUE SPIftlTE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JL\l logiques, fonde par Allan Eardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Oustoms.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince's Salon, and the Duke's Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two ontrdes, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London. -
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions oe the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-coneeived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion dow znon-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are go
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing ariy
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”-—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a carefd
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge tha
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—NowfA Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Is., post free, or 500fdr Is. Qd., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring op in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’’
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in 6ne volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-strest; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road. ^  ’
Established in 1869.
.niu^s per muii. rveuuueu icaujo ivi
The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. AH communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. •“ The Spiritualist ” will he posted for one year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
animal subscription of lbs. lOd. ,
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
THE SPIKITTJALIST,
Marcs 22, 1878,
ie
A NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATUBE DEATH BY NATURAL MEAKS. ’
LORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which ail their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each hottie of
EJSO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world-.it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
"C'NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes
J“Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact wen known.”
ENO’S FRUIT SALT. —A Lady writes:—
L “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—.A BOTTLE OF
p\NO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS EORMS OE INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete oT poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise. ■    
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Pbisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease
‘ ‘ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all myffriends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please.—I am,
dear sir, yeurs respectfully, “W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. SO, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/'CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
yj Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole A.Qtntfor Farw—FHarmacie de BERAL. i RUE DE
LA FAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of'the
Market Gardener.—11. ” Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The WobbUjaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some.ofhis poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key .” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
' From The Court Journal.
All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’.
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if-rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable hits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to he sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, hut
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome hook.. .‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to he expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order."
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the hook is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic Uterature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous.....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.. .. The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or E. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
an I i?hich created such a furore at the time.” \NtB. An
ir&j.e member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” 'but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, andproceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, isbound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.’’
Obtainable, price 7s. fld., post free, at the Publishing Offloe, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great RusseU-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 0d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given-in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentiallyl-he same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking fife—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and'Its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s -Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesnterism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — SnaU Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subieet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIIIProduction of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Rnssell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Oo., at the
Holhom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-aljove-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
