Kegieheed as a Newspaper.
SK© joU^>[Si<
0^ ^^YCSo^OG^ldS^
(Dftxesi it^iixrs^api: rxrmu^b- SpiritMalism xn <&xmt §rilam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246. Boule
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzbg, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No'. 10x0, Seventh-street.
No. 261. (YOL. XL—No. 8.) LONDON? FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments.
Elementary Spirits or Cerebral Stimuli ?   ... ... 85
Organisation and Religious Culture. By J. M. Peebles ... 85
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of
the Council        86
Another Case of Clairvoyance Recorded by Miss Mar-
tineau    ... ... ...    87
The Colombian Society of Spiritualists   .... ... ... 87
Poetry:—“ The Workers Win ”—After the Council ... ... 88
Correspondence: —Reincarnation—More Marvels at Mal¬
vern—“ EvOrettism *’—Evil Spirits and Mediums—Mes¬
merism—Myrrh   ...        ... 88
The British Association for the Advancement of Science... 90
Prophetic and Other Dreams. By 0. Gt. Sneath: — The
Materialistic Theory of Dreams—Do We have Unremem¬
bered Dreams ?—Incomplete Sleep—Revelations in One
Class of Dreams—Prophetic Dreams—“ Killpuddings
The Monopoly of Knowledge of the Laws of Nature—A
Life Saved by a Dream Warning—A Warning of Death
—Another Remarkable Dream—Thieves Detected by a
Dream—The Actual Details of a Funeral Seen in a
Dream—An Actual Murder Witnessed in a Dream—A
Death Warning—News of the Death of the Duke of Wel¬
lington Given in America by a Dream—The Material¬
istic and Spiritual Theory of Dreams Contrasted  90
News of Prince Wittgenstein ... ... ... ...  96
Paragraphs:—Mr. Colville’s Appointments, 86 ; Miss Kis-
lingbury’s Visit to America, 86 ; A Haunted House, 87 ;
Good Test Mediumship, 89; The Marylebone. Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 89; Was it Super¬
stition? ... ...     ...   96
fiTHE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
HSTABLISHED IN 1869.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn^Street.
THE HEADING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in tha same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications' should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office. • .  
~BRIXT0N PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
Jl. oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia) ;• Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Gxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr.'J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall; F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.R: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F.A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr.' J. M. Peebles ’(United States); Mr. W. Eindesay
Richardson.'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. 10d.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the follo wing places :—
London: 11, Aye Maria-larie, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and-7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse, Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege : 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-read, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G Sadler, 157, Bute-read, Cardiff;
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-boad-nobth, Brixton.
Thb object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of hooks on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &o., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6<L; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
   E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Caxton celebration), is a. self-inking one
and can easily he worked by a child of ten. I Is work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., &c., post free 13 stamps.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees.
Show Rooms :—18, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Price from £3 to £9 10s.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.O
■ DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours, from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
  FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, ftnd by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London. 4
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—53, Sigdon road, Dalston Lane, Dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances ■with, professional media, lectures, discus^
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have! the privilege of attending, the public seances oi
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .-—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8,30, 3s, 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
Tim favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high*
class Instrumental Music.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EYENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Langham Hall, Great Portiand-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is.- Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may be obtained, and subscriptions,
donations, &c., received by Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House
Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
Mediumship * its nature ajjd
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualis
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
August 24, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Colder ..Esq., l, HerefoM-square.'WestBrompton, s.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Chaises, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, l.Iiernai'd-villas, Upper Norwood.
F'itz-Gerald, Mi'S., 19, Cambtidse-street, Ilyde-park, W.
Eltz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
H my wood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square; S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
liogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13,Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, \Y.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Caims-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newc.astle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Iticliihond Hilt,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Kev. Thos., latcof H.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T'., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, K., 34, Walnut-street, Oheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Lbughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning. A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Kochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westhonrne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, Hi T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park,. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Bev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Bev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Begent's-park, N.W.
Pearce, Bichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Beimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Bichmond.
Bogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Str'awhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Bedcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
. S.W.
Strawbrldge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Bedcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. jsBS 62, Granville-park, Blackheaih, S.E.
Tredwen, B. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Bandolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W,
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
Mhite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. II., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Oalder, Esq„ 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. E, Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Bussia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Bussie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Bassim Pacha, Khan de Bassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Bue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Yisconde de Torrcs-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksatof,. Bussian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bisehoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Banca Fenzi, Florence, Italy,
err Constantin Delliaz, Singerstrasse No. 7, Vienna, Italy.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Biohmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Bailway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Biko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Biehardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Hue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Bace-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson,Esq.,M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A. r > ■* * *
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia.U.S.A.
J. II. GledstaneS;Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq , 2, Bue de Bocrol, Paris.
Kev. Samuel Watson.Mcmphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.. 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassoropierre, 285, CUaussee St. Pierre, Ettevbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Ant&elme Fritz, President de PUniom, dtj, Kue,du Midi,
. Brussels.’
Lieut.-CoT. P. Jaeoby.Tl, Bue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co/, New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte cfe Bullet, Hotel de rAtlienee, Bue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloncester-plaee, Dorset-square,
London, N.W. I
Captain B. F. Button, F.B.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S., BosehQl, DOrking
Isaac B. Bich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Bue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grnnhut, Waitzher Boufeyard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. iL E; Nehrer, EperjSS, Himgary.
J. W, Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-hlace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 5.4, Qenbjgh-sfreet, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. K. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-stfeet, Belgfave-road, S.W*
Signor Damiani,- Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Kue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Bue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Besth. Secretary,^!. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad;Espirita Central de la Kepublica Mexieana. President—
Senor Befugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soon as Mrs. W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Da Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, marshall & Co.
'ORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. Y. The Keys of the
Greeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE., By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
tho instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances,, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems gf the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best hooks published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.,
In two yols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage Sd. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.  
"OEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
XV logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardee, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7. Rue do Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MR. ,J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST BIEDJi}m: AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, YERN0N PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. j. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
, TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to, receive calls as
visual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to he addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE, HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Parte.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London of thei provinces. Address, 16, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E,
CURATIYE : MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist .(32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 6.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
• will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sillwood-road
Brighton.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
M
ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Pocoek-street, Blaekfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develope mediums.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT¬
UALISTS.
MUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
eight-aired, and in good condition, to he RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to be disposed of. Application to be made at once to the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo ■
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instruotions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300i/o?' Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d.,po$t free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOB DISTEIBUTION AX PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at onee irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ’’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
The food that we live on. in-
Btructive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price 1 s. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, or the despair of
SCIENCE, by Epes SabGENT. This boob, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, Loudon.
The TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.’ post free, Ojd. Spiritualist newfpaper
branch office.
VotujviE Eleven. Kumber EiQht.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 24th, 1877.
ELEMENTARY SPIRITS OR CEREBRAL STIMULI?
Those who have had experience enough with strong
physical manifestations are aware that the moral and in¬
tellectual character of the intelligence connected with them
is almost invariably low, and that if, once in a way, a high-
class message comes through this order of phenomena, it is
sometimes not original, but copied without acknowledgment
as to its real source. Scarcely one message in a hundred
given through very strong physical manifestations is worth
printing upon its own intrinsic merits. The messages may
appear passable at the moment they are listened to, and are
usually kindly, but let anybody try to select a few for writing
down or for publication, and their general worthlessness
becomes apparent. As the strong physical power is left
behind, and trance and clairvoyance obtain, the moral and
intellectual character of the messages is higher. To these
general principles there are occasional exceptions. Another
objectionable feature connected with the average intelligence
at work is its irrational “ touchiness,” its aptitude to take
violent offence, where not only no offence but actual kindli¬
ness is intended.
A few of our most intelligent and experienced English
Spiritualists have been induced from these facts to incline
towards the idea of the Occultists, that some of the spirits at
the root of the manifestations are sub-human or u elemen-
taries,” which is a new and polite name for a mild kind of
devil, an orthodox devil diluted. But the Bogeys of our
youth having been relegated to the limbo of Snarks and
Boojums, we are not disposed to accept without a little
examination the advent of others of the tribe, so raise the
question whether the admitted facts cannot be explained by
the aid of phreno-mesmerism, respecting which there is more
actual knowledge in the world than about milk-and-water
demons.
When one of the phrenological organs of a mesmeric sen¬
sitive is excited by touch or by verbal suggestion, his actions
are marked by desperate earnestness, and he can be made
to do violent things which he would never attempt in his
normal state. A strong medium is a mesmeric sensitive,
and there is believed to be a distinct relationship between
his mental qualities and the kinds of manifestations which
take place in his presence. May not then the excitement of
particular portions of the brain, necessarily and invariably
accompany particular manifestations, and may not the pas¬
sionate irrationality occasionally exhibited, be due to a stimulus
of a phreno-mesmeric nature applied by reasonable spirits
who have no other means of attempting to communicate ?
This idea, among others, has often incited us to publicly
suggest that the Research Committee of the National
Association of Spiritualists should make experiments to
ascertain, if they can, what variations, if any, in the tempe¬
rature of different parts of the head of the medium accompany
particular manifestations. A part of the brain unduly stimu¬
lated, would necessarily be warmer than surrounding.regions.
In the great world around us may be seen every variety of
intelligence clothed in material form, including some savages
so low in the scale of being as to scarcely compare favourably
with the more advanced quadrupeds. If the world of matter
is but the external representation of the spirit world, in
that spirit world it is reasonable to expect to find an infinite
variety of living beings, some of them possessing intelli¬
gence approximating to that of man, yet differing from it
both in degree and in kind. This seems to us to be the
strongest argument in favour of the truth of the “ ele¬
mentary spirit” theory of the Occultists, in the absence of
any solitary fragment of direct proof having been brought
forward by our Theosophical friends, in response to our re¬
peated invitations that they would forward for publication
any evidence they may possess.
| ORGANISATION AND RELIGIOUS CULTURE,*
| j BY J. M. PEEBLES.
| If order is one of Heaven’s first laws, organisation is
| certainly a help, if not an absolute necessity, to the desired
11 consummation. The human body, so full of life and activity,
i is a striking symbol of organisation, while a putrid corpse
| aptly illustrates non-organisation and death. It is painful
| j to see persons taking the corpse-side of this question.
| Spiritualist editors in America, generally, if not all, favour
11 organisation.
j | Rioters, mobs, egotistical individuals, and Ishmaelitish
) | irrepressibles, as a rule, oppose organisation of all sorts.'
(| With this class liberty is the equivalent of license. But the
(] family relation, the public school, the library, enterprise, the
| University institution, the village corporation, the city govern-
I ment, and especially the Colonial Government, guaranteeing
j personal liberty as well as protecting life and property—all
j | testify to the utility and necessity of a sound and well-
| j officered organisation. To this the Church of Rome largely
| owes her success, and wherever John Wesley preached in
| the early days of Methodism, he established some kind of
| an organisation. While not adopting the follies, we may
| learn from the methods of our sectarian enemies.
| Can Spiritualists reasonably expect to rapidly disseminate
11 their beautiful truths and achieve spiritual victories, expect
| to plant the standard of angel-ministry in all lands, expect
| to( successfully present a solid front to the older religious
| institutions of the world, without unity of action and good
11 local organisations working in harmony with a well-officered
! general organisation ?
) j When thus writing and speaking, as I often do, of organised
I effort, I have no reference, be it remembered, to a Church-
|! like creed, for I dislike, loathe, abhor all creeds that cramp
j and all chains that fetter the human mind. The soul, to
| grow, must bask in the sunlight of a rational freedom. To
11 say “ thus far and no further,” is to pronounce the sentence of
j j death. All cultured and rational Spiritualists can easily
I agree upon a declaration of general principles—such, for
| instance, as the reign of absolute law, the certainty of retri-
| bution, progress here and hereafter, the present ministry of
i spirits, and the necessity of a good life to secure happiness.
| Some of the leading Spiritualists in America met in Phila-
)| delphia on the 3rd of last July, for the purpose of taking
11 the initiatory steps towards forming in America a National
j | Association. This body, when assembled, announced their
I purpose in these words:—
i j i( We seek all knowledge, scientific, moral, and spiritual.
(| And while we study the truth, and dare maintain it, our
| immediate objects are to organise Spiritual Societies upon a
> j financial and religious basis ; to cultivate love and charity
j| towards all humanity, and to become mutual helps in
j uniting our scattered forces.” And they further said, we
j unanimously call ourselves u The National Conference of
vl Spiritualists.”
|j This movement, denominated'the u New Departure,” met
; | with considerable opposition; not from such minds as Robert
j Dale Owen, Professor Brittain, Professor Denton, Dr. Wat-
j son, and others of this stamp; but from some of our
; i destructive and iconoclastic class of workers. The a New
s I Departure,” as it was stigmatised, meant this, and nothing
! more—organisation, energy, and enthusiasm in the dissemi-
| nation of truth—meant departure from death, and from
11 stolid indifference to life and spiritual activity ; from frothy
i words to generous deeds; from demolition to judicious con-
| struction ; from a snarling scoffing to religious aspiration
11 and culture; from curiosity-seeking to practical right-doing;
I and from suspicions and slanders to the practice of those
( f * From the Harbinger of Light; Melbourne, June 1st, 1877.
86
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 24, 1877.
nobler virtues which dignify and adorn humanity. A de- j
parture from old worn-out methods, from useless memories, |
from thread-bare issues, from old feuds, old grievances, old I
disputations, old theological taints, and the dry, plague- jj
stricken fields of thought, into the sublime principles and jj
heavenly practices of the harmonial philosophy. j
Since the late persecutions in America, and of Dr. Slade jj
in England, even the most radical and iconoclastic of Spirit- j
ualists have looked more favourably upon organisation, and |
the necessity of causing organisations and spiritual seances j
to partake more of a religious nature. The moment that j
both Spiritualists and mediums say that our Spiritualism is j
our religion, that moment the civil law which protects all jj
religionists protects us. Religion, however, must not be j
confounded with theology or superstition. The black men j
of these colonies have certain theological notions. It is jj
impossible to write or vote religion out of the human soul; jj
for down deep in the divine depths of every cultured per- Jj
sonality there is a sense of the Infinite—a consciousness of j
the immortality that links humanity to God. j
Spiritualists need more religion—not sectarian theology— j
but religion, “pure and undefiled.” If men’s heads, like j
animals’, were flat upon the top, religion would be to them j
a meaningless term. Man more than a brute, is an aspi-
rational and worshipful being; and while intellectual truth I
satisfies the reasoning faculties, it does not feed the spiritual
affections. A geological lecture would be sadly out of place
upon a funeral occasion. Religion, derived from two Latin n
words, means to bind anew—to bind fast—or otherwise to
spiritually attract the soul to the principles of truth and
justice, love and holiness. There is a very close relation !
between religion and inspiration ; it is as natural for inspira- j
tions to touch and gild the life-lines of the unselfish, as for j J
jewels to glitter in the stellar spaces. But, though in- jj
spired, the best, the most royal-souled, sigh for more com- j j
pleteness, more wisdom, more love. There are seasons in j j
our lives—hours of inspiration, when the loves of the angels I
baptise us into an ecstasy akin to that known among the j
martyrs and the white-robed in paradise. Those souls are J
happiest who love most; who love purely; who love un- j
selfishly; who love all. This I denominate the love-fellow- i
ship of the spirit. And those who have come into this clear, j
pure atmosphere, through the teachings of a rational and I
religious Spiritualism, can look through idiosyncracies,
through diverse opinions and opposing methods, to find the
character, the manhood, the an^el that is to be. There
is in the world too little appreciation of noble endeavour, if j
that endeavour chances to be made among those who con¬
scientiously differ in opinion from us. Bigotry is just as
unwarrantable in a “ Liberalist ” as a Romanist, and super- j
stition is just as hideous in a Spiritualist as in a sectarian. I
The coming Saviours, whether men or women, must be con- !
structionists; builders of better things; fraternal lovers of
the races; brothers and sisters of the humanities. Jesus I
was very sensibly termed our “elder brother,” and the j
“ brightness of the Father’s glory.” Aflame with the prin¬
ciples of love and toleration, he comprehended the moral
grandeur of the universal religion, and voiced it in these
words: “ By this shall all men know that ye are my
disciples, if ye have love one for another.” j
Washington Irving once alluded to a man of superior pomposity as a j
great man, and, in his own estimation, a man of great weight. When j j
he goes to the west, he thinks the east tips up. j
Mr. Colville’s Appointments.—Mr. W. J. Colville, inspirational j j j
medium, will deliver an oration and poem at Langham Hall, Portland- 111
street, London, at Mrs. Weldon’s meeting, on Monday, Sept. 3rd, also j j j
on Sept. 10th, the subject on each occasion to be chosen by the audience. ! j
The meetings will commence at 8.0 p.m. He will also deliver ad- j j ]
dresses and poems, at the rooms of the National Association of Spirit- j (j
ualists, on Saturdays, Sept. 8th, loth, 22nd, and 29th, at four o’clock, j
the subjects on all occasions to be chosen by the audience. Questions (j
are invited at the close of addresses. Mr. Colville will be in London j |
on Sept. 2nd, on which day he commences a series of Sunday afternoon j j
discourses and poems, at Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec-street, Mary- (j
lebone, at 3.15 p.m. The subjects have been pre-arranged as follows: i(!
— Sunday, Sept. 2nd, 3.15 p.m., “Spiritualism in its relation to j||
Christianity”; Sept. 9th, “The New Messiah”; Sept. 16th, “Who (j
are the Hedeemed? ”; Sept. 23rd, “ The Day of Judgment”; Sept. 30th, jj j
“ The Harmony of all Religions.” Admission free; there will be a j|!
collection at the close. 1'j
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OP THE COUNCIL.
At the Council meeting of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, held at 38, Great Russell-st., London, on Tuesday, Aug. 14th, Mr.
Alexander Calder, president, occupied the chair. The other members
present were Mr. Morell Theobald, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. A. Joy, Mr. C. C. Massey, Mrs. Louisa
Lowe, the Rev. W. W. Newbould, Miss Houghton, Mr. Cornelius
Pearson, Mr. E. P. Ashton, Mr. Christian Reimers, and the Rev.
Thomas Colley.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, of Florence, and Herr Constantine Delhez,
of Vienna, were elected honorary members of the Association.
A letter was read from Mr. Martin R. Smith, resigning his offices of
vice-president and honorary treasurer. Mr. Smith’s resignation was
accepted with great regret, and with expressions of gratitude for the
liberal support which he has hitherto given to the Association.
On the motion of Mr. C. C. Massey, seconded by Miss Houghton,
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald was unanimously elected a vice-president of
the Association.
The report of the Finance Committee showed a balance of £49 2s. 6d.,
and recommended payments to the amount of £47 Is. The outstanding
liabilities of the Association were estimated at £5.
It was also reported that—“ The Finance Committee, having examined
the accounts of the Association, regret to announce that, contrary to their
expectations, they find it necessary to recommend to the Council to call
in the Guarantee Fund for the third time, the annual subscriptions not
being yet sufficient to meet the current expenses. They propose to
reduce the expenditure in other matters, and suggest the suspension of
the Monthly Agenda.” This report was put from the chair, and unani¬
mously adopted.
The House and Offices Committee announced that Mr. A. Joy and
Mr. W. H. Harrison had consented to take charge of the secretarial
department during the absence of the secretary.
Gifts of photographs of paraffin casts from the Comte de Bullet and
M. Levoff were accepted with a cordial vote of thanks.
It was reported that the Spiritualist Society of Columbia had applied
for alliance with the Association, and for the mutual exchange of
periodicals. It was resolved that this alliance be entered into.
The Library Committee reported that Mr. A. Joy had been elected
Chairman of that Committee for the current year. Also, “ That the
Committee, having examined into the state of the library, present the
following report thereon:—
“ 1. That the number of bound books in the library is about 700; of
these, 115 are lent to us for an indefinite period, and 119 are devoted to
the Lending Library. Of the entire collection an exhaustive catalogue
is being prepared by the Rev. W. W. Newbould.
“ 2. That, notwithstanding the liberal donations Of works which have
been made by various members to the library, a large number still
remain to be added, in many cases of important standard writings, such
as, for instance, the entire works of Andrew Jackson Davis, others on
animal magnetism, occultism, &c.
ft 3. That a large number of unbound books and periodicals, English
and foreign, are accumulating, some of which, for want of binding, are
in danger of being lost or mutilated,
“ 4. That several Spiritualist journals published in foreign countries
are not being filed here, on account of want of funds for collecting and
completing them, as, for instance, the only Italian journal, Annali dello
Spiritismo, some Flemish and Belgian journals, the Spanish journals of
Barcelona, Lima, and Montevideo, and some Scandinavian and American
journals.
“ 5. That certain photographs and casts, requiring to be mounted or
framed, or otherwise preserved, are becoming damaged by exposure, or
hidden from view by being put out of harm’s reach.
“ 6. That, in view of the increasing necessity for making the library
as complete and efficient as that of a National Association ought to be,
and for extending the power of the lending department, it was resolved—
‘ That this committee do recommend to the Council that a special and
definite sum be set apart to be expended on the library.’ ”
It was resolved, on the motion of Mr. Morell Theobald, seconded by
Mr. E. P. Ashton—“ That the Council, having heard the report of the
Library Committee, accept its recommendation in principle, with reference
to setting apart a specific sum for the expenses of the library; but that
in the present state of the finances, they postpone the naming of any
definite sum.”
The Seance Committee reported that they had accepted the offer of
Mr. J. W. Colville to give a series of trance addresses at these rooms
every Saturday during September. A charge of Is. to be made to
members for , a single admission, or 2s. 6d. for the course.
Mr. C. C. Massey stated that he would rather defer his motion with
reference to the Lunacy Laws, as the Committee of the House of Com ¬
mons had not yet published its report. This was agreed to, and the
proceedings then came to an end. E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
One of the old settlers of the Isles of Shoals, seeing the name of
Psyche on the hull of a yacht the other day, spelt it out slowly, and then
exclaimed—“ Well, if that ain’t the durndest way to spell fish!”
Miss Kislingbury’s Visit to America,—Miss Kislingbury, Secretary
to the British National Association of Spiritualists, left London for New
York in the steamship Greece last Saturday. She is about to visit Dr.
Crowell and other friends in the United States, and will, no doubt, be
warmly received by Spiritualists everywhere. Nobody is more tho¬
roughly acquainted with the position of Spiritualism in Great Britain.
She has taken a most active part in establishing an efficient Spiritualistic
organisation in this country, and has worked hard in helping to pioneer
it through the most difficult portion of its career, so is doubtless glad of
the present thorough change, in the shape of a holiday in America.
August 24, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
87
ANOTHER CASE OF CLAIRVOYANCE RECORDED BY I
MISS MARTINEAU. g , !
The following is another case of clairvoyance, which we j !
extract from The Autobiography of Miss Martineau (Smith, j j
Elder and Co., London) :— | i
After I got home it struck me that it might be well to ascertain | |
Emma’s faculty in regard to myself; to try in some way, which should j) j
be indisputable if it succeeded, her power of clairvoyance in the case of j
a person with whom mesmeric relations had been established. I there- )|
fore wrote to Mr. Charles Darbishire, who was frequently seeing her, to ||
explain my notion. I told no person whatever of my writing to him; j j
and he, living alone, told no person whatever of my letter. Between us j|
we managed so that communication with Emma—if anybody had known / i
of the project—was impossible in point of time. There was no telegraph !
within reach from hence at that time, if there had been anybody able to | j
use it. I wrote on a Thursday, saying that for a week from the hour j
when he would receive my letter he had my leave to learn from Emma (j
what I was doing at any time between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. i
The immediate method was put into my head by Mr. C. D having \ j
said, once before, that he was tempted to put a note of mine on her head, i
to see what she would say; but that he considered that it would be j
hardly right to do this without my leave. He had therefore never a
referred at all to me and my visit, and did not knowhow far the girl was i
conscious of it. Mr. C. D  received my letter the next morning—
Friday—at his home, eight miles from Bolton. Very considerately i
remembering that it must be somewhat genant to me to be under possible j (j
inspection all day, and seeing the advantage of wasting no time, he j j
determined to send me his report by the same day’s post. In the after- j (j
noon he made his call at Mr. Haddock’s, found Emma quite ill with a bad (j
cold, and expected nothing from her while so “stuffed” and stupid and ;j
headachy; but, as mesmerising would do her good, he tried what she (i
could do, giving no hint of any particular reason. He was so satisfied (!
that she was confused, and talking at random, that he presently broke / j
off, and much surprised he was to find her accounts of things all right. (!
As I have said, he knew nothing more about my position here than j
that I lived at Ambleside. My house was just built, and whether I j
lived in lodgings, or how or where, he was entirely ignorant. Such was |
the fact; though it would have made no difference in the essential points i
of the story if he had known my house as well as his own. j
He put on Emma’s head a folded paper—blank except a few words |
which told nothing, and were not signed, and were written merely to ) j
establish the necessary relation. 1 had also breathed on the paper for ) I
the same reason. Outside it was blank, and it was never unfolded. As j
soon as she put it on her head she said she could see f* the lady that [ j
warmed her.” The lady was sitting at a round table before the fire, and |
opposite the fire was a large window, and there was on another side (j
another window, that opened down to the ground. The sofa, chairs, and |
window-curtains were light coloured, &c., &c.—all correct. The only |) |
remarkable points of the description were two: the sideboard having a j
white marble top, and the bookcase, which she called “ a right-up ” book- j | j
case. It was a straight, tall, narrow bookcase, made to fit in between j j j
two windows in our house in London, and looking exceedingly ugly in j j j
any other position. >
“The lady” was fumbling in her work-box at the table—turning |(j
things over. All this seemed so commonplace, and yet so unlikely j (j
(according to Mr. C. D ’s notions), that the business stopped here; )j
and he wrote an account of it after he got home, intending to call R|
(unexpectedly) pretty early the next day, to see if the girl was in better j j
condition. He would carry his letter in his pocket, and finish and post i) I
it in Bolton, whatever was the result. |>l
The girl was right in every particular. The time was near five of a j j]
February afternoon. I had come into the drawing-room from my work j) j
in the study, and was sitting in the dusk before dinner. I had sent my | (j
maid out to buy a piece of canvas for a new enterprise of woolwork, j |j
and I was looking out my needles and other needful things ready to j ?j
begin. I)!
This was Friday afternoon, my proposal having been posted on the j) |
Thursday evening. On Saturday Mr. C. Darbishire paid his visit some | |j
hours earlier—from half-past eleven to just one. He found Emma not j (j
much better, and had no expectations whatever from the interview. | (j
“The lady that warmed her” was in another room to-day—a long j )j
room, with a large bay window at one end and the fireplace at the other, j (|
The furniture was black horse-hair, all but the sofa, which was light- j) ]
coloured. (All true.) But the girl’s interest was about the books, (j
Such a quantity of books she had never seen before ; what were they j (j
for? She began talking to “the lady,” asking why she had so many j )i
books, and whether she could ever read the half of them. At last she (
came to what “ the lady ” was doing. She had a cloth in her hand, and ! )j
she was wiping and doing among some of the books. This upset the j) i
girl’s credit with Mr. C. D to whom it seemed more likely to be a j (j
servant-girl’s dream than my occupation. nj
“ Now she has got a book,” Emma declared, “ a big, square, brown i)|
book, and she is going to read it on the sofa. Now she is reading it.” i (|
Presently she declared this “ tiresome.” She should not “ wait long ” j)!
if the lady did not leave off; and what a time this reading had gone on ! !)!
At last she exclaimed, “Well, I shall not wait any longer, if you won’t j(|
leave off.” Then, with a laugh, “Ah! but you’d better leave off. You I) |
are not thinking about your book. You have got some dust on your I <j i
hands, and you are thinking you will go up stairs and wash them! K j
Well, go! You’d better go!” Presently, “Ah! now she’s really ijj
going.” ^ ||
She described my .going up stairs, and my standing before the glass, |n]
“smoothing her hair,” said Emma; “and there is a lady coming in. ill
No, she has gone out again softly. I don’t know that she is a lady j(j
exactly, but she is a nice-looking young person, And the lady never Iji
found out she came in.”
Here they stopped, Mr. C. D as hopeless as the day before, it
seemed all so improbable, and the girl was really so oppressed with her
cold ! He left her at 1 p.m., went to a counting-house to finish his
letter, posted it himself, and went home to dinner. I received the letter
next morning—Sunday, just after breakfast.
The facts were these. I had arranged my books the day before
(Friday), and being tired, had left one shelf untouched. At eleven on
Saturday, and on to about half-past, I had a duster in my hand, and
was dusting and placing the books. Having finished, I took up one of
them—a volume of Memoires of the French Institute, sent me just
before by M. Ampere, for the sake of a paper on the Memnon at Thebes
(apropos to something in my Eastern Life, lately published). The
volume was rather large, square, and with a yellowish-brown back. I
read for a considerable time; but at length observed that my hands
were dirty—wanted to finish the paper—hesitated, but presently went
up to my room and washed my hands.
So far I could testify. When I had finished the letter I rang for my
maid. I asked her, “ Do you remember whether at any time yesterday
you came into my bedroom while I was there ? ”
After considering a moment, she answered, surprised, “ Why, yes,
ma’am, I did. I was going to fill the water-jugs, and when I went in
you were before the glass; so I went out softly, thinking you did not see
me.”
“ What time was that ? ”
After considering again, she said, f It must have been about a quarter
to one, for I had just finished up stairs before I brought in your lunch
at one.”
This is my second story. Many have heard it, and no one, as far as
I know, has ever treated it with levity or incivility. There is nothing
new or exceptional in the facts. Every one who has paid any adequate
attention to the subject, is aware that such instances of clairvoyance are
very common; but it does not often happen that allegations of fraud or
fancy are so completely excluded as in this case. There may be people
who, rather than believe facts that they have stiffened their minds
against, would charge Mr. C. Darbishire and me with having fabricated
the whole narrative; but, short of this, there seems to be no escape
from an admission that there are facts in human nature which require a
good deal of humble and candid study before we can honestly claim to
know the extent and character of human powers.
Prince Albert might well wonder, as he said he did, what men of
science and physicians in England could mean by neglecting such a
department of study as this. And nobody ought to be surprised when,
as a natural consequence of such neglect, such a hell-feast as the witch¬
hanging in Salem takes places, or a madness takes possession of a multi¬
tude of (professedly) educated people in the nineteenth century about a
supposed commerce with the spirits of the dead. When due observation
is directed upon such phenomena as those of mesmerism, mankind will
take a grand new step onwards ; and meantime the candid have the
advantage over the ignorant and scoffing, that they are in possession of
a very interesting and important knowledge of which the others deprive
themselves, not knowing what they lose.
THE COLOMBIAN SOCIETY OF SPIRITUALISTS.
A leading official of the Society of Spiritualists in the United
States of Colombia, Don Rafael Parga, visited the British National
Association of Spiritualists last week, and negociated an alliance with
the society of which he was the representative. He called attention to
the periodical called La Nueva Idea, which appeared in New Granada
four years ago, and which has since become extinct owing to the revo¬
lutions in the country. This contains an article by Senor Ricardo do
la Parra, in which the “ platform ” of the New Granadan Spiritualists
was expressed. They appear to be all reincarnationists, and staunch
disciples of the school of Allen Kardec, and, to judge from the letter
of Senor de la Parra, anti-Christian. The Light of Sion, which is at
present the organ of the society, which as yet only numbers twenty-
five issues, is a well-prepared periodical, containing trance addresses
on various theological, theosophical, and philosophical subjects. It is
evident that the precept, “ Do as you would be done by,’’ which ap¬
pears as the motto of the periodical cannot as yet be acted on literally
while the blood of the Colombians is so warm under the equator. But
the society evidently possesses some freedom of thought, and the
traditions of old Spain have imbued members with the ideas of order,
organisation, and discipline.
A Haunted House.—“Burleigh,” in a late letter to the Boston
Journal from New York City, says: “ Not far away from where I write
is one of the most delightful and popular watering places in this
vicinity. This place has a haunted house of its own. The dwelling has
a pleasant position. It stands on an eminence, and overlooks the Sound.
It is a modern structure, with all possible elegancies. It looks as little
like a haunted house as one can possibly look. If human testimony can
be relied on the place is a haunted one. The ghost is a former owner,
and he is no skulk; he comes in broad daylight; comes in full dress,
and often at noon. Sometimes he drives a team up to the door; he calls
on the occupants and demands the rent that he claims to be due. This
man, in the flesh, became deranged. In one of his fits he sold the
property much below its value, and the loss of his property preyed on his
mind. He soon died, after he had demanded the return of his property.
The buyer was a New York merchant, and the place is too hot for him.
The wildest rumours are afloat. The former owner ranges round the
mansion; he comes in daylight and in his usual costume. He has more
than once met the lady in possession in the dining-room; announced
himself the owner of the house, and made a demand for rent due. The
greatest excitement prevails. The property is for sale at a discount, and
the family are to move out.”
August 24, 18t7,
TflE SPlH
TtTALIST
I
88
“THE WOKKERS WIN.”
On Sunday afternoon, July 22nd, Miss Lizzie Doten, of Boston, delivered
an inspirational discourse at the Highland Camp Meeting of Spiritualists,
Norfolk, Mass., and at the close gave the following original poem:—
The seed which lies inert and cold,
Will neither flower nor fruitage bear,
Unless it struggles through the mould
For light and air.
The soul that seeks for Freedom’s prize
Must Freedom’s battle first begin.
True effort never vainly dies—
The workers win.
Through weary years of want and woe
The soul irresolute must wait,
While he who strikes the timely blow
Will conquer fate.
The might that nerve’s the hero’s arm
Springs, from the manly might ■within ;
The coTvard on/fy flies from harm—
The workers win.
The snail may gain the mountain’s height
By toiling onward day by dayj
While swifter feet who trust their might
Shall idly stray.
The saints who wait upon the Lord,
And wage no war on shame and sin,
See Craft and Cunning reap reward—
The workers win.
Old Superstition rears her shrine,
And heaps it high with shining gold,
And birthrights of the soul divine
Are bought, are sold.
And Doubt, and Fear, and Death, and Hell,
And Want, and War, and Shame, and Sin,
Their ranks by countless thousands swell—
The workers win.
Yet Truth shall sound her bugle-call,
And Justice draw her flaming sword—
The spirit of the Lord on all
Shall be outpoured.
A countless host, unseen, but near,
To hopeful human hearts akin,
Repeat the .words of lofty cheer—<
“ The workers win.”
Oh, fainting soul 1 “ take heart of grace !”
Though dangers in thy pathway lie,
Pursue thine heaven-appointed ways
With courage high.
One grand, eternal law, controls
The life without—the life within.
Heaven is no place for idle souls—
The workers win. Banner of Light.
AFTER THE COUNCIL.
Mr. David Gray, editor of the Buffalo Courier, has an article on “ The Last
Indian Council on the Genesee,” in Scribner's Monthly for July, closing with
the following poem :—
The fire sinks low, the drifting smoke
Dies softly in the autumn haze,
And silent are the tongues that spoke
The speech of other days.
Gone, too, the dusty ghosts whose feet
But now yon listening thicket stirred ;
Unscared within its covert meet
The squirrel and the bird.
The story of the past is told,
But thou, oh, Valley, sweet and lone !
Glen of the Rainbow ! thou shalt hold
Its romance as thine own.
Thoughts of thine ancient forest prime
Shall sometimes haunt thy summer dreams,
And shape to low poetic rhyme
The music of thy streams.
When Indian Summer flings her cloak
Of brooding azure on the .woods,
The pathos of a vanished folk
Shall tinge thy solitudes,
The blue smoke of their fires once more
Far o’er the hills shall seem to rise,
And sunset’s golden clouds restore
The red man’s paradise.
Strange sounds of a forgotten tongue
Shall cling to many a crag and cave,
In wash of falling waters sung,
Or murmur of the wave.
And oft in midmost hush of night,
Shrill o’er the deep-mouthed cataract’s roar,
Shall ring the war-cry from the height
That woke the wilds of yore.
Sweet Vale, more peaceful bend thy skies,
Thy airs are fraught with rarer balm ;
A people’s busy tumult lies
Hushed in thy sylvan calm.
Oh, sweet thy peace ! while fancy frames
Soft idyls of thy dwellers fled ;
They loved thee, called thee gentle names,
In the long summers dead.
Quenched is the fire ; the drifting smoke
Has vanished in the autumn haze;
Gone, too, oh, Vale, the simple folk
Who loved thee in old days.
But for their sakos—their lives serene—
Their loves, perchance as sweet as ours—
Oh, be thy woods for aye more green,
And fairer bloom thy flowers !
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned-,
copies should he kepthy the writers.^
Mi REINCARNATION.
j j Sir,—A friend has published, in the last Spiritualist, a spirit message
iff obtained through my hand, which it appears to me might convey an
111 erroneous impression to your readers. In the first instance the message
| j came, not from any of my guides, but from my friend’s own spirit guide,
j j who, it appears, has before given “ similar thoughts ”—a fact of which
Ii I was ignorant.
The words “ there is no such thing possible,” are a direct answer to a
i: question put by my friend. The spirit then goes on to dilate a little
| upon astrology and destiny. I beg to say I am completely ignorant of
astrology, and would consider it exceedingly bad taste to express any
| dogmatic opinions upon a subject of which I know nothing. Nor have
j I any prejudices against it. On the contrary, I would like much to
| know all about it; but books upon astrology are difficult to obtain. I
I demurred for an instant at the words “ false science,” but a medium
should be passive, and not obstruct the inflowing of thought from another
mind by the exercise of her own intellect, so I permitted the words to
| come. I do not know exactly what our spirit friend may mean by a
| “false science,” unless in this instance he may intend to express that it
is false to the spirit of religion—that it may destroy in us that perfect,
childlike trust in the over-watching love of God, which religion teaches
| we should exercise. No doubt our friend could, and would have ex¬
plained his meaning, had it not been for the weak state of his medium,
m scarcely recovered from a long, serious illness. On that account I
| j | would regret the publication of the message ; but if it can bring forth
I f information upon a most interesting subject, 1 will gladly excuse my
I I friend for having printed it. Catherine Woodeorde.
| j ; Aug. 17th, 1877. — 
i j jh ; MORE MARVELS AT MALVERN.
j(j Sir,—As the health of Willie Eglinton improves, the “ power ” for
i 11 manifestations seems to increase. But, until his health is firmly estab-
j i lished, his “guides” firmly refuse to enlarge the circle, and rarely
! ; admit any one outside our family, even of the inmates of Aldwyn Tower,
i j' without due probation and preparation. “Joey” is peremptory. He
| (i watches over the diet, regimen, treatment, morals and manners of those
| {j under his charge with fidelity and discretion. He even attends to them
jjl at table, and raps out a rebuke if they exceed what he considers a
| [I proper allowance. For example, he rapped when a young lady took too
|) | much butter. She persisted, and was punished by a sentence of banish-
I)! ment from the next circle.
j (j All our seances are under test conditions. They are in a small upper
j); room in my own house, with its one door locked, audits one window,
]) i thirty feet from the ground, fastened. The medium, and every person
| | present, never exceeding six, I know intimately. I think I may say
| (I that I know pretty accurately what can be done by sleight of hand,
jli ventriloquism, “ palmistry or otherwise.”
] | i It is clear that darkness is not dark to “ Joey.” To prove this, he
! \ \ proposed that I should draw something on paper for him to cut out. I
| )| drew on a small piece of paper an obelisk on its pedestal, and wrote on
j(i it, “Sacred to the Memory of Joey,” and placed it, with a pair of
m! scissors, on the mantelpiece. While all hands were joined, we heard
! \ \ him by the fire-place cutting with the scissors. He said, “ There, I
| \ i have partly cut out my monument; I will finish it some other time.” In
I) i the perfect darkness he had followed the outline about two-thirds of the
||i way. It was left on the mantelpiece. Last night he said, “Now,
j)! doctor, I will finish my monument.” “ But there are no scissors in the
j ll room,” said some one. “ Never mind,” said Joey. “ I will find a pair.”
i \ | After a few moments I heard a clicking of scissors; then he came, and
i I after pressing my band two or three times with his fingers, he put the
; i little paper, and a large pair of scissors, into my hand. When we got
if a light I found the whole outline neatly cut out; the pieces of paper
i) i cut off were lying on the carpet four feet in front of my chair, and the
I) j scissors were a pair kept in a box in a bedroom on the same floor. I
| (| cannot absolutely affirm that the scissors were not in the room; but
|) \ there is no doubt that the cutting out of the monument was done in
j|; perfect darkness, for I had seen it on the mantelpiece partly done, just
m before the light was extinguished. It is certain also that Joey placed
! j ] the paper and scissors in my hand.
jn The story of the ring is more satisfactory in one way than that of the
,1 | monument. Mrs. Nichols has among her keepsakes a large gold ring in
j ji which is set a red cross, about half an inch long. This ring was placed
(jjl: in a little, close-fitting drawer in her secretary, which drawer I carefully
j(j fastened with gummed paper, on which Mrs. Nichols had written her
j/j name for identification. Could “ Joey ” take the ring from the drawer
jjl and bring it to us in the little locked room upstairs? We asked him at
| \ \ two stances, but he was evasive, saying only that he would attend to it.
j j | About this time Willie Eglinton made a flying visit to his father, near
|ji. London, and took the opportunity to call upon Mr. Fletcher, at 14,
ij |j Southampton-row. Naturally a seance was proposed, and Mr. and Mrs.
| j I Fletcher, their son, and Eglinton, sat round a table holding hands in
j{| the dark. The voice of Joey said, “ I can only stay a moment, but I
August 24, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
80
want to give you a manifestation,” and Mrs. Nictiors ring was dropped ; j
on the table, and Willie Eglinton put it in his pocket and brought it j)
back to Malvern. There we carefully examined the fastening of the 11
little drawer in which the ring had been placed. It was intact, firm, j j
and had not been tampered with. I tore it off, and opened the drawer, i)
No ring was there.—The ring, which probably could not be matched in Is
England, was on the owner’s finger, but in the drawer was a wooden j
card-box holding a pack of playing cards, for which we had hunted over j
the house. Had the drawer been locked one might suspect some trick, i
Fastened as it was I have no doubt.* . h
And I have no doubt of the perfect genuineness of a manifestation we j <
had a few days ago, involving the same kind of power over matter, j1
Five persons, including the medium, were sitting in the dark, holding j ]
each other’s hands. While the hands were so held Joey was heard 1
talking, playing the mouth-organ (which requires a hand), opening and j
winding-up the music-box, and making it stop and go on at command.
Then he said imperatively to the lady holding the right hand of the
medium—“ Hold his hand firmly now; all hold tight; don’t let go for a
moment. I will try to give you a manifestation.” In a moment more
he said—“ Now, Dr. Nichols, give us a light. All the rest keep hold
of hands.”
I lighted the gas. Mrs. Wilkes was firmly holding the right hand of
the medium with her left; both were standing, and the cane-bottomed
chair of the medium was hanging on Mrs. Wilkes’ left arm, halfway
between her wrist and elbow, hanging by the usual opening in the back
of such chairs, like a needle on its thread.
It may be difficult to believe such a fact upon any testimony; but, I
after what I have seen for twenty years, and with my knowledge of the |
witness, I cannot doubt her perfect good faith. I shall, however, try
and get this manifestation under absolute test conditions.
T. L. Nichols, M.D.
Aldwyn Tower, Malvern, August 17th, 1877.
“ EVERETTISM.” |(
Sir,—There is Spiritualism and ledgermain, of both of which we can j) |
form an opinion after we have witnessed a stance or performance, j j |
But the more one sees of “ Everettism ” the greater the mystery be- j j j
comes, and the more inexplicable the solution. ill
What is it ? Is it Spiritualism ? If so, we may, after this, naturally j j |
expect to hear no more about the necessity of conditions being obeyed j{i
before satisfactory phenomena can be obtained; for Mr. Everett makes j) j
no conditions, and imposes no limit on the tests which are used. Two j | j
committeemen sit beside the cabinet, and the curtains are drawn aside jy ,
before bell or tambourine has time to fall to the floor after being j;
thrown out, and he is firmly bound hand and foot, neither the position | (I
of coat, cord, rope, nor fastenings, betraying the fact of any move- m
nient having taken place during the manifestations. Still more, rope i) j
is brought, and cages for his arms and head. “Bind him up, gentle- |J|
men, with these,” says his colleague, and he retires, leaving the com- | j |
mittee to bind him as they will. Mr. Everett smilingly consents to |)|
every suggestion, and gives every assistance, so as to allow of his being j (S
bound firmly, even pointing out where the cords give him an oppor- m
tunity of extricating himself. With these advantages, plenty of cord, I) |
three cages, and Mr. Everett’s willingness, I and another person jjl
chosen by the audience spent fourteen minutes in securing him, but no 1(1
sooner were the curtains drawn in front of him than the instruments !)j
were playing and hands appearing; scarcely had we lost sight of j j i
these, and had the sounds ceased, than the curtain was drawn, and re- H i
vealed the medium precisely as we left him. jjj
Still again; to make him more secure a box-chair is introduced, and | j
we tie his hands behind him and seal them through small holes in the m
back of the box, afterwards lacing a fine net all round it, firmly securing j j j
it at the back, and we call another from the audience to watch the | J |
cabinet, so that no assistance is rendered from without; but all in vain, jjj
Under these additional precautions wonders multiply. Now, with a jjj
darkened room and four persons upon the platform, a ligure materialises i j j
in front of the cabinet; we shake hands with her, and she walks j j I
down the room distributing flowers. There is no condition made that j)
we do not interfere with her, but on the contrary we are asked to test i
her, to mind she does not escape, and yet, with four persons there to j j
watch, she disappears—not through a trap door, for a full light is thrown j j
upon her from a bull’s eye. Instantly the cabinet is opened, and Mr. j
Everett is still bound with seals intact and with net laced over him as j j
we left him. How did the lady or figure come on to the platform ? It j j
was real flesh and blood, for we felt it! How did it disappear, with jy
four persons there to hinder it, without discovery 1 In despair we gave I
up our task of trying to bind him or stop the manifestations. The j)
more stringent the tests the more practically Mr. Everett laughed at ; j
them. As we left the hall where he is performing the expression that jj
met with most approval from his bewildered audience was—“The man jj
must be the devil.” jj
Never, sir, during the fourteen years that I have given any attention j
to Spiritualism and its phenomena, have I seen anything to be compared j j
with this. Robt. Jas. Lees. j j
71, Edenbridge-street, Salford, August 14th, 1877, . - *. j)
EVIL SPIRITS AND MEDIUMS. ij
Sir,—In the last Medium you will see that Miss Wood has been j
caught personating a spirit. I am glad of it, and, if others do it, ij
by all means fire at them. The excuse of evil spirits and uncon- ij
sciousness will not do for me. Miss Cook tells me her spirit “Lillie” ij
would do no such thing, nor does she believe it possible to do it with ij
* Gummed paper can be removed unbroken by simply wetting it. Dr. Nichols is quite
careful enough to make sure this was not done before recording the manifestation, but has
omitted to completely state the evidence, so as to make all its points clear to those who
were not present.—Ed,
her, without her knowing something of it, and if she found it out, the
spirit would be driven away as an impostor, and never again would she
give another seance.
Our Hackney seances are genuine, for Lillie is not an evil spirit, but
tells us of the liability to trickery where mediums are not of high
honour. C. Blackburn. .
Parkfield, Didshury, near Manchester, Aug. 17th, 1877.
MESMERISM.
Sir,—In my article on Mesmerism” in The Spiritualist of August
the 17th, I am made to say, “ There cannot possibly be real occasion for
jealousy, for were the medical practitioners multiplied a hundredfold,
human suffering would still afford a wide field for their exertions.”
Heaven forbid! for the interests of the medical profession—to say
nothing of those of the public—that it should receive such an awful and
portentous accession to its ranks.
What I did say was—“ There cannot possibly be real occasion for
jealousy, for were the mesmeric practitioners increased a hundredfold,
&c.,’’ and this not without reason, for very lately, on being asked to
recommend some lady mesmeriser I could only hear of two or three pro¬
fessional practitioners in the whole of London. J. James,
Tottenham, August 18th.    
MYRRH.
Sir,—The answer to Dr. Carter Blake’s question in The Spiritiialist,
vol. xi., p. 70, whether “myrrh” is to be found growing in Scotland,
must depend upon the answer to another question—What plant had the
poet in view when he wrote “ hills of myrrh,” the myrrh-producing, or
myrrh-scented hills ?
I fancy the thing meant was not the myrrh which in the beginning of
the Gospel according to St. Matthew is associated with gold and frank¬
incense, but the plant called by botanists Myrica Gale, Sweet Gale,
Gaule, or Bog Myrtle, and of which some other poet wrote—
Gale from the bog shall waft Arabian balm.
This little shrub is common in the Hebrides and Highlands of Scotland,
ranging to 1,800 feet above the sea level. Its leaves are used as a sub¬
stitute for hops iu brewing beer, and they also furnish a domestic
medicine. Frequently it is placed among clothes to communicate its
scent to them, and protect them from moths and other objectionable
insects. Its berries are sticky to the touch, and when rubbed between
the fingers exhale a delightful fragrance, but whether resembling that
of the Eastern myrrh I do not know. W. Whitear.
High-street, Hornsey.
r Good Test Mediumship.—Several separated correspondents of the
Banner of Light speak very highly of Mr. Wilson’s mediumship. One
of them says:—“ The hall on the hill was crowded to excess by those
who wished to witness the mental phase of the phenomena as presented
through the peculiar mediumship of E. V. Wilson. This gentleman
opened his seance with the reading of some Scriptural selections by way
of text for his preliminary remarks, in the course of which he described
the nature of his development. He then singled out, at random, a
number of persons in various parts of the audience, and proceeded to
read incidents in their life history, and to describe spirit-friends near
them, with the utmost ease. During the seance he made to his subjects
some fifty-nine statements, fifty-seven of which were acknowledged to
be true, the parties in each instance stating that the medium was a
total stranger to them, and that, iu many cases, the occurrences which
he related had entirely passed from the memory, and that the persons
described were not present in their thoughts, but were recalled by his
minute recital.”
The Marylebone Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism.—
On the 14th inst., Mrs. Hallock in the chair, a lecture was given by
Dr. Carter Blake on the “Difficulties Encountered by Enquirers into
Spiritualism.” The lecturer, at great length, pointed out various theories
which had been brought forward to account for the physical phenomena,
and expressed his own strong belief in the genuineness of the physical
events which had often occurred through the mediumship of Dr. Slade
and others. He pointed out that the conditions under which observa¬
tions had been often carried on, were such as to exclude all probability
of fraud; on the other hand, he considered the hypothesis of the
physical manifestations being produced by departed spirits, or, in fact,
“ ghosts,” neither proved, nor provable. He incidentally referred to
published experiences in table moving and Spiritualism in the Spiritual
Herald, for 1856 (pages 78 and 133), showing that his investigation of
the subject was at least twenty-one years old, though perhaps he was
amongst those to whom the words of Dante might be addressed—
0 gente, in cui fervore acuto adesso
Ricompie forse negligenza e indugio
Da voi per tiepidezza in henfar messo.
He pointed out that fraud on the part of a bad medium was no more a
proof of the falsity of Spiritualism than a bad shilling was a proof of
the non-existence of Queen Victoria. Nevertheless, it was the duty of
Spiritualists, more than the general public, to nail the bad coin of
fraudulent mediumship to the counter. Science knew no respect of
persons, and was merely the “ sworn interpreter of nature.” The
lecture was freely objected to by many of the audience, comprising both
Spiritualists and sceptics, who were understood to be of the Wesleyan
persuasion, and after some humorous remarks on the part of Dr.
Carter Blake, the meeting separated. Some questions were asked, to
which answers could not be given at the late hour of the adjournment,
and which were postponed till a future occasion, when Dr. Carter Blake
will lecture again.
DO
THE SPIRITUALIST,
August 24, 1877.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT fi
OF SCIENCE. |
(F, 'om our Special Correspondent.) j||
Plymouth, Thursday. | (i
The proceedings of the British Association for 1877 closed ! ;
here to-day. The lively proceedings at Glasgow last year, ! |
resulting from the introduction of the subject of Spiritualism j j
at the Biological Section, as well as other discussions | j
thought to be injudicious in the Economic Science and | j
Statistics Section, induced the Council during the recess to j j
appoint a committee to consider these matters. All that j j
the Council| has made public as to the results appeared in j j
their Annual Report, read at the General Committee last j j
week, under the presidency of Sir William Thomson. The ! |
following are the paragraphs in question :— j j
The attention of the Council having been drawn to the character of i j
some of the sectional proceedings at late meetings of the Association, a j
committee was appointed to consider and report to the Council on the
possibility of excluding unscientific or otherwise unsuitable papers and I |
discussions from the sectional proceedings of the Association. The | j
committee recommended that, in the rules for conducting the business
of the sectional committees, the following rules should be inserted, viz.:
(1) The president shall call on the secretary to read the minutes of the
previous meeting of the committee. (2) No paper shall be read until
it has been formally accepted by the committee of the section, and
entered on the minutes accordingly. The Council propose that this
alteration of rules shall be carried into effect. The committee in their | j
report further considered that some of the subjects brought before |
Section F could not be considered scientific in the ordinary sense of !
that word, and that the question of the discontinuance of Section F j
deserves the serious consideration of the Council. The Council have j i
requested the committee to report more fully the reasons which had in- | |
duced them to come to this conclusion, but the committee have not yet | i
made a further report. j j
Thus all they have done having any influence upon j j
Spiritualistic papers, is to secure that they as well as others j j
shall be formally passed by the Committee of the whole j j
Section before they can be read. They further give dark I j
hints to the more ardent reformers in the Statistical Section j j
as to the possibility of their Section being closed altogether, j |
There are plenty of Spiritualists among the members here, j j
and I do not think that there is anywhere in the British I }
Association much prejudice against the phenomena. But j j
the fact is, that already several subjects dealt with by the j j
Association, bring down anathemas from some of the local j
pulpits, and they do not wish to take in hand other un- j j
popular subjects before they have had time to grow sufli- ! |
ciently. j j
In Professor Carey Foster’s opening address to the j j
Physical Science Section, the name of Mr. Crookes was j;|
mentioned, and the speaker was stopped by the loudest j I
applause he received all through his remarks. Probably j j
this spontaneous mark of recognition of Mr. Crookes was j j
due quite as much to the feeling that he had fearlessly dealt | !
with a new subject which many have not yet the moral' | j
courage to handle, as to his discovery of the radiometer, j j
Mr. Crookes is not here, neither is Mr. A. R. Wallace.
The meeting has been an unusually quiet one, and the | |
telephone by which people can talk to each other in their | j
own voices at stations scores of miles apart has been the j j
chief subject of scientific interest. Last Saturday the * | |
Lords of the Admiralty placed steamers at the disposal of j 1
the members, to take them to see great gun practice on | j
board H.M.S. Cambridge^ and on the same day the Mayor j j
and Sir Stafford Northcote welcomed and entertained a j j
number of the members at Exeter. But altogether the j |
meeting has been so quiet that a little personal altercation j j
between Lord Fortescue and Lord Houghton at one of the | |
Sections, resulting in the latter putting on his hat and j !
walking out, was elevated into a matter of sufficient im- j j
portance to form the chief topic of conversation last | |
Monday. ... j j
Next Monday evening Mrs. Weldon will again, by special request, j j
read the history of her Orphanage, at the Langham Hall, Portland- ij j
street, London: ij
Next Sunday the Marylebone Society of Spiritualists will hold its jjj
quarterly tea meeting at the Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec Hall, jji
London. | |
The Duke of Leuchtenberg is near Elena, with a considerable sec- j j
tion of the Russian army under his command. Thus he and Prince |f|
Wittgenstein are acting in nearly the same locality in the present ! |
unhappy war. -Ill
PROPHETIC AND OTHER DREAMS.
BY C. G. SNEATH.
« God speaketh once, yea twice, yet man perceiveth it not. In a dream-
in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumberings
upon the bed ; then God openeth the ears of men and sealeth their instruc¬
tion, that he may withdraw man from his purpose and hide pride from man.”
—Job xxxiii. 14.
THE MATERIALISTIC THEORY OF DREAMS.
It is not necessary that we should stop to inquire at what
period in the world’s history the above words of Job were
written, since they contain a universal truth, witnessed to
more or less in every age and nation. It has, however, been
discovered of late years that the belief in revelations made
in dreams of any kind is a mere superstition which no
person of sane mind will now entertain for a moment. One
of the principal supporters of this opinion is Dr. Macnish,
of Edinburgh, in his well-known and very interesting work,
The Philosophy of Sleep, and as this work is considered by
many persons to be of great authority, I propose to direct
your attention to it, so far as it refers to the phenomena of
dreams. In the preface Dr. Macnish informs us that he had
devoted some time to the study of the subject, and could
come to no other conclusion respecting it than that con¬
tained in the body of the work; while in the preface to the
third edition he says : “ The work now contains as good an
account of sleep as I am capable of producing; and it is
not probable that any change whatever will be made in
future editions, "supposing it is fortunate enough to pass
through them.” Hence we may reasonably conclude that
we have in The Philosophy of Sleep some of the strongest
arguments that can be adduced in favour of what may be
termed the materialistic theory of dreams. The keynote to
the work may, I think, be gathered from the following in¬
troductory sentences :—
Sleep is the intermediate state between wakefulness and death,
wakefulness being regarded as the active state of all the animal and
intellectual functions, and death as that of their total suspension. Sleep
exists in two states, in the complete and incomplete. The former is
characterised by a torpor of the various organs which compose the brain,
and by that of external senses and voluntary motion. Incomplete sleep,
or dreaming, is the active state of one or more of the cerebral organs,
while the remainder are in repose; the senses and the volition being
either suspended or in action, according to the circumstances of the
case. Complete sleep is a temporary metaphysical death, though not
an organic one, the heart and lungs performing their offices with their
accustomed regularity, under the control of the involuntary muscles.
DO WE HAVE UNREMEMBERED DREAMS?
This theory of total unconsciousness during complete
sleep is by no means peculiar to Dr. Macnish, and one of its
supporters, Mr. Locke, mentions the case of a young gentle¬
man—a scholar—with no bad memory, by the way, who
declared that he had never dreamed at all until he had an
attack of fever when twenty-six years of age. But this
statement does not prove that the young gentleman in ques¬
tion had never dreamt during that time, but only that he
was unconscious of having done so, which every one will
perceive at once to be a very different matter. Dr. Aber¬
crombie remarks : “We have reason to believe that dreams
which are remembered occur only in imperfect sleep, and
that we do not remember any mental impressions which
occur in very profound sleep, though we have satisfactory
proof that they exist. Thus, a person will talk in his sleep
so as to be distinctly understood by another, but without
having the least recollection afterwards of the mental im¬
pression which led to what he said.” And Mr. Sheppard in
his work on Dreams (page 11) mentions a remarkable case
of this kind which he had from the pen of the Rev. B. R.
Clarke, son of the celebrated Dr. Adam Clarke, linguist and
commentator.
This gentleman, when a boy, was in the habit of saying
to his father over night the lesson which he would have to
repeat in school the following morning. At the time of
which we are speaking he was learning the Greek grammar,
and his lesson on the evening in question was the conjuga¬
tion of one of the Greek verbs; but on going to his father’s
study to say his lesson, previous to retiring for the night, he
utterly failed to repeat it, and was sent away in disgrace.
It was a custom with Mr. Clarke, senior, to visit the
different rooms occupied by his children before going to bed,
and on coming to that occupied by the young student he
heard him speaking, and on going a little nearer perceived
Aumrstf 24, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
£1
that he was repeating the troublesome lesson of the evening, j 1
which he now went through without the slightest hesitation. | |
But when he went to the father’s study on the following |
morning he was as utterly unable to get through it as he j j
had been the night before, nor did it assist him in the least I
when his father informed him that he had heard him repeat | !
it in his sleep without difficulty.
Hence it would appear that we may be as perfectly con¬
scious during sleep as we are during the waking state,
although the connecting link between the two—the bridge
of communication, so to speak—may be wanting. Nor
need this be a matter of great surprise, considering the
number of thoughts continually passing through our minds
which we are utterly unable to recal five minutes afterwards.
For my own part, I am inclined to think, so far at least as I
am able to come to an opinion upon so difficult a subject,
that it is only in perfect sleep that we can have perfect
dreams, although I see no reason to conclude that we may
not sometime retain the recollection of such dreams, or, |
more properly speaking, visions in the waking state. j
“ Apoplexy (Dr. Macnish informs us), which consists of a |
turgid state of the cerebral vessels, produces perhaps the most |
complete sleep that is known in so far that, while it continues, |
it is utterly impossible to waken the individual.” Hence we i
might conclude from the theory laid down in The Philosophy |
of Sleep that apoplexy would be a state of total unconscious- |
ness—“a temporary metaphysical death.” Yet Dr. Aber- j
crombie informs us that he saw a gentleman in a state of j
profound apoplexy, but from which he afterwards recovered, I
who told him that he retained a perfect recollection of all
that had taken place during the attack, and mentioned many
things which had been said in his hearing during the time
when he was supposed to be in a state of perfect unconscious¬
ness. And he mentions the case of a lady in a similar
state who, on recovering, told him she had been asleep and |
dreaming, and related to him what her dream was about. I
But, indeed, it seems to me that Dr. Macnish refutes him- |
self, or at any rate weakens his own position, for he says,u dur- j
ing complete sleep, no sensation whatever is experienced by |
the individual; he neither feels pain, hunger, thirst, nor the i
ordinary desires of nature. He may be awakened to a sense !
of such feelings, but during perfect repose he has no con- I
sciousness whatever of their existence—if they can indeed be j
said to exist where they are not felt.” And yet in another j
part of his work, when treating of trance, he mentions the I
following remarkable circumstance, extracted from The j
Psychological Magazine:— j
A young lady, an attendant on a princess (whose name is not given), j |
after having been confined to her bed for a great length of time with a i (
violent nervous disorder, was at last, to all appearance, deprived of life, i)
Her lips were quite pale, her face resembled the countenance of a dead i \
person, and the body grew cold. j
She was removed from the room in which she died, was laid in a i |
coffin, and the day of her funeral fixed on. The day arrived, and, ac- j (
cording to the custom of the country, funeral songs and hymns were j j
sung before the door. Just as the people were about to nail on the lid i)
of the coffin, a kind of perspiration was observed to appear on the sur- |
face of her body. It grew greater every moment, and at last a kind of |
convulsive motion was observed in the hands and feet of the corpse. A j
few minutes after, during which time fresh signs of returning life ap- |
peared, she at once opened her eyes, and uttered a most pitiable shriek, j
Physicians were quickly procured, and in the course of a few days she I
was considerably restored, and is probably alive at this day. ]
The description which she gave of her situation is extremely remark- i j
able, and forms a curious and authentic addition to psychology. j (
She said it seemed to her, as if in a dream, that she was really dead j j j
yet she was perfectly conscious of all that happened around her in this j j
dreadful state. She distinctly heard her friends speaking and lament- i i
ing her death at the side of her coffin. She felt them pull on the dead j1
clothes, and lay her in it. This feeling produced a mental anxiety l,
which was indescribable. She tried to cry, but her soul was without j i
power, and could not act on her body. She had the contradictory feel- j |
ing as if she were in her body and yet not in it, at one and the same i!
time. It was equally impossible for her to stretch out her arm, or to j
open her eyes, or to cry, though she continually endeavoured to do so.
The internal anguish of her mind was, however, at its utmost height I
when the funeral hymns began to be sung, and when the lid of the coffin
was about to be nailed on. The thought that she was to be buried
alive was the one that gave activity to her soul, and caused it to operate
on her corporeal frame.
Now surely, if ever there was a case onrecord which might |
he designated as a state of total unconsciousness, a temporary I
metaphysical death, that case would seem to be the one now !
before us; yet we see that the patient was perfectly conscious i
during the whole time, although all around her, physicians
included, supposed her to be actually dead. So little are we
entitled to affirm, as Mr. Sheppard truly remarks, that
apparent unconsciousness—apparent^cessation of thought, is
real. The question whether we ever sleep without dream¬
ing, is as old as the days of Aristotle, or whether the soul
ever sleeps, which is perhaps only another way of putting it,
is one which we may never be able to answer satisfactorily
on this side of eternity; but surely, with such facts as these
before our eyes (and others might be added, if necessary), we
should, I think, hesitate before pronouncing dogmatically
upon a subject of such vast importance, but respecting which
we know so little.
INCOMPLETE SLEEP.
I pass on to the second division of the subject. Dr.
Macnish says-
la perfect sleep there is a quiescence of all the organs which compose
the brain; but when, in consequence of some inward excitement one
organ or more continues awake, while the remainder are in repose, a
state of incomplete sleep is the result, and we have the phenomena of
dreaming. If, for instance, any irritation, such as pain, fever, drunken¬
ness, or a heavy meal, should throw the perceptive organs into a state
of action, while the reflecting ones continue asleep, we have a conscious¬
ness of objects, colours, or sounds being presented to us, just as if the
former organs were actually stimulated by having such impressions
communicated to them by the external senses; while, in consequence of
the repose of the reflecting organs, we are unable to rectify the illusions,
and conceive that the scenes passing before us, or the sounds that we
hear, have a real existence.
This want of mutual co-operation between the different organs of the
brain accounts for the disjointed nature, the absurdities, and inco¬
herencies of dreams.
A little further on Dr. Macnish reminds us of the strong
I analogy which exists between dreaming and insanity, and
quotes approvingly the words of Dr. Rush, “ That a dream
may be considered as a transient paroxysm of delirium, and
delirium as a permanent dream.” Now that there is a con¬
siderable amount of truth in all these statements as applied
to the majority of dreams, I do not for one moment dispute.
We are told by Dr. Gregory, that having once occasion to
apply a hot-water bottle to his feet, that he dreamed of walk¬
ing up Mount Etna, while the heat to his bare feet was
almost intolerable. And we are told by him of another
gentleman, who having a blister applied to his head, dreamed
that he was being scalped by a party of Indians. Mr. Austin
Flint, in his Physiology of Man, records a number of experi-
! ments which have been tried with a similar result. But the
| question is, will these explanations meet the entire pheno-
| mena of dreaming ? Will they cover all the facts’of the case ?
| Dr. Macnish affirms that they will. He says, “ I believe that
! dreams are uniformly the resuscitation or re-embodiment of
| thoughts which have formerly, in some shape or other, occu-
| pied the mind. They are old ideas revived either in an entire
I state, or heterogeneously mingled together. I doubt if it
j be possible for a person to have, in a dream, any idea whose
i elements did not, in some form, strike him at a previous
; j period. Mr. Austin Flint adopts a wiser course, and abstains
> | altogether from attempting any explanation of the psychologi-
! I cal phenomena produced in sleep, truly remarking, that we
II know little enough of the action of the mind at any time.
REVELATION8 IN ONE CLASS OF DREAMS.
And I cannot help thinking that if Dr. Macnish had
I looked a little more deeply into the subject, he would have
\ I found many well-authenticated dreams on record, to which
| his own explanation would have been found to be wholly in-
I adequate. The difficulty is not to find cases, but to make a
I wise selection. We read that Cabanis, in dreams, often saw
| clearly the bearings of political events which had baffled him
| when awake, and Dr. Franklin informed him that a similar
| circumstance had not unfrequently occurred to himself. Con-
| dorcet, when engaged in some deep and complicated calcula-
] tions, was frequently obliged to leave them in an unfinished
| state and retire to rest, when the results to which they led
| were unfolded to him in dreams. Brodie mentions the case
j of a friend of his, a distinguished chemist, and natural
| philosopher, who assured him that he had more than once
II contrived in a dream an apparatus for an experiment he pro-
| posed to make ; and that of another friend, a mathematician
If and a man of extensive general information, who has solved
11 problems when asleep which baffled him in his waking state.
\ 1 Abercrombie mentions the case of Dr. Gregory, who had
92 THE SPIRITUALIST. August 24. 1877.
thoughts occurring to him in dreams, and even the very |j
expressions in which they were conveyed, which appeared j j
to him afterwards when awake, so just in point of reasoning j
and illustration, and so happily worded, that he used them j |
in his lectures and his lucubrations. j
Dr. Moore, in a work On the Power of the Soul Oder the |
Body, says, u It is related of Caedmon, the Anglo-Saxon | [
bard, that he composed his first and probably his best poem, I
that on Creation, in a dream. Previous to this he was unable i
to repeat a single stave, but afterwards became remarkable j
for the facility of his verses.” |
Lava ter states, il Many a mathematician has in deep sleep j
solved the most difficult problems, and performed complex J
calculations with inexpressible quickness.” |
Abercrombie relates the following circumstance'] of an j
eminent lawyer of the last century, in whose family records | j
all the particulars are carefully preserved :—
This distinguished person had been consulted respecting a case of j
great importance and much difficulty, and he had been studying it with 11
intense anxiety and attention. After several days had been occupied in 11
this manner, he was observed by his wife to rise from his bed in the j j
night and go to a writing desk which stood in the bedroom. He then 11
sat down and wrote a long paper, which he carefully put by in the desk j1
and returned to bed. The following morning he told his wife he had j j
had a most interesting dream ; that he had dreamed of delivering a clear j i
and luminous opinion respecting a case which had exceedingly perplexed ! I
him, and he would give anything to recover the train of thought which j J
had passed before him in his sleep. She then directed him to the !
writing desk, where he found the opinion clearly and fully written out. |
It was afterwards found to be perfectly correct. ; J - : . r j
It would be easy to multiply instances of this kind did I
time permit, but I merely mention these by way of illustra- j
tion, and must leave you to judge how far they are satis- !
factorily explained by calling them the ^ resuscitation or re- | {
embodiment of the waking thoughts, or the transient
paroxysm of delirium.” For my own part I fail to perceive j
how on any logical principle the reflection of a thing can by |
any possibility be superior to the thing reflected. |
PROPHETIC DREAMS.
Dr. Macnish says :■— |
Dreams have been looked upon by some as the occasional means of i
giving us an insight into futurity. This opinion is so singularly unphilo- j
sophical, that I would not have noticed it, were it not advocated even by | [
persons of good sense and education. In ancient times it was so common j |
as to obtain universal belief ; and the greatest men placed as implicit j j
faith in it as in any fact of which their own senses afforded them cogni- |)
sauce. That it is wholly erroneous, however, cannot be doubted; and 11
any person who examines the nature of the human mind, and the ! (
manner in which it operates in dreams, must be convinced, that i >
under no circumstances, except those of a miracle, in which the j l
ordinary laws of nature are triumphed over, can such an event ever ! J
take place. The sacred writings testify that miracles were common j
in former times; but I believe no man of sane mind will contend that | (
they ever occur in the present state of the world. In judging of ! (
things as now constituted, we must discard supernatural influence j)
altogether, and estimate events according to the general laws which | (
the Great Ruler of Nature has appointed for the guidance of the i |
universe. If, in the present day, it were possible to conceive a sus- j /
pension of these laws, it must, as in former ages, be in reference to j
some great event, and to serve some mighty purpose connected with j (
the general interests of the human race; but if faith is to be placed I j
in modern miracles, we must suppose that God suspended the above i (
laws for the most trivial and useless of purposes—as, for instance, to 11
intimate to a man, that his grandmother will die on a particular day, j /
that a favourite mare has broke her neck, that he has received a j (
present of a brace of game, or that a certain friend will step in and i j
take pot-luck with him on the morrow! At the same time there can i
be no doubt that many circumstances occurring in our dreams have i (
been actually verified; but this must be regarded as altogether the j j
effect of chance; and for one dream which turns out to be true, at least I r
a thousand are false. In fact, it is only when they are of the former | (
description that we take any notice of them, the latter are looked upon |;
as mere idle vagaries, and speedily forgotten.* • . i , I (
I have no wish to speak evil of dignitaries, bat I must j
say that however plausible this passage may appear at first !
sight, it seems to me exceedingly weak in point of argument, j j
Let us analyse it a little.. Dr. Macnish tells us that dreams j j
have been looked upon by some as giving us an occasional : j;j
insight into futurity. He admits that this belief was common | I
in ancient times, and that it was strongly maintained by the j j
greatest men of antiquity, and yet, without the slightest j j
hesitation, he not only pronounces it to be wholly erroneous, | j|
but so utterly unphilosophical as to be scarcely deserving of ! j
notice. But, I would ask, can it be right to dismiss the )j|
universal consent of mankind in this peremptory way, merely j j
* Philosophy of Sleep, p. 12!)—131,
because it does not happen to accord with the views of a few
physiologists of the nineteenth century ? Gan it be right to
designate such men as Homer, Aristotle, Plato, Socrates and
other giants of antiquity as the mere slaves of an ignorant
superstition? It was Dryden, I think, who wrote in
reference to the truth of the Scriptures :—
How, but from God, could men unskilled in arts,
In different ages born, in different parts,
Weave such agreeing truths? or how, or why,
Should all conspire to cheat us with a lie ?
And it seems to me that these lines may be applied with
almost equal force to the subject we are now considering.
It is true, indeed, that the belief in dreams, like almost
everything else that is good, has been sadly mixed up with
superstition and imposture. But this is no argument
against its original purity, but rather, I think, an argu¬
ment in its favour, for every lie must have a certain amount
of truth in it to render it palatable. If you receive a bad
shilling in the market to-morrow, you may be quite sure
that there are good shillings not far away, otherwise no one
would have attempted to impose upon you by offering you
a bad one. The counterfeit coin, in this instance, implies
the existence of the true shilling. But, further, having
assumed—for it is nothing more than a pure assumption—
that a prophetic dream can only take place by the violation
or suspension of the laws of nature, Dr. Macnish goes on
to remark—“ The Sacred Writings testify that miracles were
common in former times; but I believe no man of sane
mind will contend that they ever occur in the present state
of the world.” It is quite true that the Sacred Writings do
contain accounts of a vast number of verified dreams, and
the question is-—Does Dr. Macnish believe these accounts
or not? If he does not, then there is an end of the matter,
and we may dismiss the consideration of ancient dreams
altogether.But he appears to refer to the Scriptures approv¬
ingly; hence we may reasonably conclude that he believes
them. How, the Sacred History, speaking in round terms,
runs over a certain period of—for argument’s sake—j say,
some thousand or two thousand years. Are we, then, to
draw a circle round this period, and round the nations re¬
ferred to in the Scriptures, and to say of certain dreams—
these are perfectly reliable, merely because they happened
to have been recorded in the Bible; and of others—these are the
mere result of superstition and imposture, simply because they
have not been so highly favoured ? Such a mode of argument
may be convenient, but it is not logical. But that was the
age of miracles, and “no man of sane mind will contend that
they ever occur in the present state of the world.” Yet the
very Scriptures to which Dr. Macnish refers, warrant us in
expecting their continuance. Take one passage out of many
(Joel chap. ii. verse 28)—“And it shall come to pass after¬
ward” (or in the last days, if you prefer St. Peter’s rendering
of the passage ; but in neither case, as you will observe, is
there any limitation as to time)—“ And it shall come to pass
afterward, that I will pour out of My Spirit upon all flesh—•
(no limitation's to persons either)—and your sons and your
daughters shall prophesy; your old men shall dream dreams,
and your young men shall see visions.” Yet there is no need
of a miracle in order that this prophecy may be fulfilled.
There is no necessity that the laws of nature should be
violated or suspended. Indeed, it is a grave question
whether the laws of nature ever have been violated or
suspended under any circumstances, for such an admission
would seem to imply a defect in their original constitution,
and, by consequence, a want of wisdom or want of power on
the part of the Great Creator.
I am anxious not to be misunderstood ; I do not intend to
deny the wonderful works ascribed to Christ and his apostles,
but merely to assert the possibility that all these may have
taken place under laws of the very existence of which we
may be totally ignorant. “ But,” says Dr. Macnish, “ if
faith is to be placed in modern miracles, we must suppose
that God suspended the above laws for the most trivial and
useless of purposes, as for instance, to intimate to a man
that his grandmother will die on a particular day; that a
favourite mare has broken her neck; that he has received a
present of a brace of game, or that a certain friend will
step in and take pot luck with him on the morrow.” All
this is plausible enough if we admit Dr. Macnish’s position
August 24, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 93
that a miracle is absolutely necessary in such cases ; but I
would remind you that the question before us is not one of
inference, but of fact. It is not—Does the information
usually communicated in dreams appear to us of a useless or
frivolous character? but “Is it true?” One of you may
possibly receive a useless or even absurd message from Lon¬
don by telegram one of these days, but you would hardly
consider that a sufficient ground for denying the existence of
electricity.
“ KILLPUDDINGS.”
Dr. Neale, in his Unseen World, says: “An honest Sussex
farmer, whom I know, lost some cattle. He dreamed that
if he went to East Grinstead, and inquired for a place called
Killpuddings, he would find them there. He had been a
clear-seer in dreams, and accordingly he resolved to act in
compliance with that. He went to East Grinstead, but was
rather ashamed to ask for a place with so absurd a name,
and in the existence of which he had no reason, except his
dream, to believe. He put up at one of the inns, and, after
talking about some other matters—[: Pray,’ said he, £ is
there a farm anywhere hereabouts called Killpuddings, or
some such name ? ’ £ Oh, yes,’ said the person addressed ;
‘ certainly there is,’ and directed him to it. He went, and
found his cattle.”
THE MONOPOLY OP KNOWLEDGE OP THE LAWS OP NATURE.
This circumstance seems to have been as well authenti¬
cated as it well can be, yet few persons, I believe, will sup¬
pose that the laws of nature were violated or suspended in
order to tell a Sussex farmer where his lost cattle were.
Who told Dr. Macnish that a miracle was necessary in such
cases ? Who informed him that a prophetic dream involved
violation or suspension of the laws of nature ? The fact is
people nowadays have got into the habit of speaking of
nature’s laws as if, like those of landlord and tenant, they
could be collected into a volume, put on a shelf in a
lawyer’s office, and taken down at will. As waters spring
out of the earth, so what we term nature’s laws flow ever
evenly from eternal wisdom, power and goodness ; and
when we can comprehend the Infinite, then, and not till
then, as it appears to me, shall we be in a position to throw
a measuring tape round the universe of God, and say what
is and what is not contrary to the laws of nature.
“ Contrary to the laws of nature!” Why, electricity,
oxygen, and the circulation of the blood were contrary to the
laws of nature once. Even the very means by which this
room is lighted to-night would have been so regarded not a
hundred years ago. Indeed, when it was proposed to light
up London with gas, no less a person than Sir Walter Scott
actually wrote and published a letter against the absurdity of
lighting up a city with smoke. Some years ago, at the
meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of
Science, held at Swansea, a discussion having arisen as to
the essence or nature of electricity, and an appeal having
been made to Earaday for his opinion on the subject, what
did he, the first electrician of the age perhaps, reply ?
“ There was a time when I thought I knew something about
the matter, but the longer I live and the more carefully I
study the subject, the more convinced I am of my total ignor¬
ance of the nature of electricity.” Ye gods! What a con¬
trast to the dogmatic passage we have been considering.
A LIFE SAVED BY A DREAM WARNING.
But let us apply Dr. Macnish’s theory to one or two of
the facts which he has himself selected for that purpose.
Major and Mrs. Griffith, of Edinburgh, then residing in the Castle,
had received into their house their nephew, Mr. Joseph D’Acre, of
Kirldinton, in the county of Cumberland—a young gentleman who had
come to the Scottish capital for the purpose of attending college, and
had been specially recommended to his relative’s care. When spring
arrived, Mr. D., and three or four young gentlemen from England (his
intimates), made parties to visit all the neighbouring places about
Edinburgh, Koslin, Arthur’s Seat, Craig-Millar, &c., &c. Coming
home one evening from one of those places, Mr. D. said, “We have
made a party to go a-fishing to Inch-Keith to-morrow, if the morning is
fine, and have bespoke our boat; we shall be off at six.” No objection
being made, they separated for the night.
Mrs. Griffiths had not been long asleep, till she screamed out in the
most violent manner, “ The boat is sinking; save, oh, save them! ”
Her husband imagined that the dream might have arisen from appre¬
hension, but she assured him that such was not the case, as she had
not even thought seriously of the intended excursion. Again she fell
asleep, and again cried out that the boat was sinking. This dream,
however, she imagined to be but a reflection of the first, as she still felt
no fear as to the safety of the fishing party, and after a little con¬
versation with her husband, both fell asleep once more. But when
the dream was repeated for the third time, and she saw the boat and
all on board sink beneath the waves, she felt thoroughly satisfied that
the dream portended evil. And, without waiting for the morning, at
once put on her dressing gown, and went to her nephew’s room, and
with some difficulty persuaded him to relinquish his intention. He
wrote a hasty note to his friends, regretting his inability to join them,
and sent it by his servant. The morning broke beautifully, but about
three o’clock a violent storm came on—the boat floundered, and all on
board perished.
This story is extracted from Blackwood’s Magazine* and
is vouched for by Abercrombie. But independently of this
voucher it is perfectly well authenticated. Indeed the circum¬
stance was communicated to that magazine by the late Mary
Lady Clerk, of Pennicuik, well known in Edinburgh during
a protracted widowhood, and the daughter of Mr. D’Acre, who
concludes her narrative in the following words, “ I often
heard the story from my father, who always added, 1 It has
not made me superstitious, but with awful gratitude I never
can forget that my life, under Providence, was saved by a
dream.’ ”
And now for Dr. Macnish’s comment—it is a very short
one. He admits that the case is interesting, both on its own
account and also because of the coincidence between the
dream and the succeeding calamity. “But,” he adds, “like
all other instances of the kind, this also must be referred to
chance.”
A WARNING OF DEATH.
A somewhat similar circumstance is related by Dr. Neale,
| in his Unseen World.
The dreamer in this instance was a lady whose husband was a mem¬
ber of the yacht club. She was at the time staying with him at Sul-
i worth in Dorsetshire, and a regatta was to take place on the following
day, in which his yacht was to sail. She dreamed that if he went on
board the yacht he would be drowned; and so earnest were her ex¬
postulations with her husband, that, to humour her, he promised not
to go. “ But, at least,” he said on the following morniug, “ you
will not object to my going in a boat to the yacht to see that all is
right.” She was very unwilling to consent even to this ; but on her
| receiving his promise not to leave the boat she gave a reluctant per¬
mission. He went accordingly, and, finding that some arrangement of
the sails was different from that which he had intended, gave orders
that it should be altered. The men bungled and blundered; in his
impatience he went on board, “just for one moment,” and stood lean-
i ing over the side while the sailors did What he thought necessary. A
] sudden squall arose; the yacht lurched, and its unfortunate owner fell
;j overboard, and was drowned. “ This circumstance was the more talked
I of,” says Dr. Neale, “because he had been compelled to assign a reason
[ | for not sailing in his own yacht, and had mentioned his wife’s fears as
i ] the cause.”+
Of course these dreams were “nothing more than the re-
! | suscitation or re-embodiment of the waking thoughts, and
II their fulfilment the mere effect of chance.” No person in
11 the nineteenth century being so absurd as to think of assign-
|! ing to them any other explanation. But, it may be asked,
[ | would not the belief in dreams tend to make us cowards, and
if unfit us for the daily duties of life? Yes, if we allow the
} | belief to degenerate into superstitution, and gallop off with
| our reason, it certainly would. I have read of a tribe of
I American Indians who placed such implicit faith in dreams
| as to do whatever they dictated, and of one of their number
)\ who, having dreamed that his finger was cut off, went, on
| awaking, and had it cut off in right good earnest, having
j previously prepared himself for the operation by a good feast;
j and it is probably to such a belief in dreams as this that the
j | wise son of Sirach refers when he says, “ That they are vain
j and have deceived many, and they have failed that hoped in
|1 them.”j; But he makes an exception, “ IJ they be not sent
| from the Most High in (or for) thy visitation, set not thy
I heart upon them.”§ But how are we to distinguish between
| the two ? How do we distinguish between good and bad
(i people, good and bad books, good and bad thoughts ? We
) | use our common sense in these matters. No one would be
)\ likely to reject a noble aspiration of to-day, merely because
(I some useless or frivolous thoughts intruded themselves upon
)i the mind yesterday. Let us only use the same discretion
II with regard to dreams, taking care that our minds are
(| properly informed on the subject, and I think the difficulty
) | referred to will entirely disappear. At any rate I have
) i * BlacJavood's Edinburgh Magazine, vol. xix. p. 73.
)! . t Unseen World, p. 6-5.
) j J Ecclds. xxxiv. 1,7. ' § Eccles. xxxiv, 6.
August 24, 1877.
94
TEtfc SPIRITUALIST.
myself been a believer in the prophetic character of certain 4
dreams for many years. I have studied the subject for days ||
together, and have retired to rest full of it at night, yet I |
never remember having a single dream that caused me a \)
moment’s uneasiness in the waking state. ||
ANOTHER REMARKABLE DREAM. : , |(
But to return to Dr. Macnish :— I
Abercrombie, he informs us, relates the case of a gentleman in |)
Edinburgh, who was affected with an aneurism of the popliteal artery, j(
for which he was under the care of two eminent surgeons. About two j j
days before the time appointed for the operation, his wife dreamed that i)
a change had taken place in the disease, in consequence of which an i (
operation would not be required. j j
On examining the tumour in the morning the gentleman was aston-
ished to find that the pulsation had entirely ceased, and, in short, this j(
turned out to be a spontaneous cure. To persons not professional (says I)
Dr. Macnish) it may be right to mention that the cure of popliteal )
aneurism, without an operation, is a very uncommon occurrence, not f]
happening, perhaps, in one out of numerous instances, and never to be j j i
looked upon as probable in any individual case. It is likely, however, m
that the lady had heard of the possibility of such a termination, and j( \
that her anxiety had very naturally embodied this into a dream. The j
fulfilment of it, at the very time when the event took place, is certainly j j j
a very remarkable coincidence.* j (|
Very remarkable indeed. So remarkable that it appears j j
to me much easier to admit the prophetic character of the j j
dream than to accept Dr. Macnish’s explanation. For just if I
see what that explanation involves. First of all, we must j
assume that the lady had heard of the spontaneous cure of jj
the disease in question, which even on Dr. Macnish’s own j |
showing seems to be improbable: secondly, we have to j |
assume that this possible cure of the disease was resuscitated, j j
or re-embodied in a dream; and thirdly, that at the very j
time when the resuscitation or re-embodiment of this ! j
possible information was passing through the mind in a | |
dream, the cure was taking place in reality. I fancy that m
some people will require stronger proof than this before they 1
sacrifice their belief in the prophetic character of dreams, j j
and adopt in its stead a conviction of infallible chance. j
Isaac Walton relates the following story of Thomas J
Wotton, the father of Sir Henry, whose dreams were fre- j
quently verified :—• j
THIEVES DETECTED BT A DREAM.
He dreamed that the University treasury was robbed by townsmen I j
and poor scholars; that the number was five; and being that day to j
write to his son Henry at Oxford, he thought it worth so much pains |)
as by a postcript to make a slight inquiry of it. The letter, which was |
writ out of Kent, and dated three days before, came to his son’s hands I j
the very morning after the night in which the robbery was committed j j
and when the city and University were both in a perplexed inquest of [ j
the thieves, then did Sir Henry Wotton show his father’s letter, and by ! j
it such light was given of this work of darkness, that the five guilty j)
persons were presently discovered and apprehended.
Here, supposing tbis circumstance to be well authenticated j
(and I have never heard of its having been called in ques- j j
tion), we have an instance of a gentleman in Kent dreaming j j
of a robbery many miles away, and being able to give such | j
a description in writing of the persons by whom it was com- I
mitted, and their number, as to lead to their apprehension, ! |
and all this information obtained three days before the j i
actual robbery was committed. Yet we are told that dreams I j
are uniformly the resuscitation or re-embodiment of thoughts j |
which have formerly in some shape or other occupied the j j
mind. j
THE ACTUAL DETAILS OF A FUNERAL SEEN IN A DREAM. | j
Robert Dale Owen, one of the most candid and philoso- j j
phical writers I have ever met with, in his work, entitled, I
Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World, relates the j |
following occurrence, the authority for which will be seen at j |
the close :— j j
In the winter of 1835-6 a schooner was frozen up in the upper part i j
of the Bay of Fundy, close to Dorchester, which is nine miles from the jj j
river Pedendiac. During the time of her detention she was intrusted j j I
to the care of a gentleman of the name of Clarke, who is at this time i j
(1859) captain of the schooner Julia Halloclt, trading between New j
York and St. Jago de Cuba. j j j
Captain Clarke’s paternal grandmother, Mrs. Ann Dawe Clarke, to j j
whom he was much attached, was at that time living, and, so far as he j j
knew, well. She was residing at Lyme Regis, in the county of Dorset, j)!
On the night of the 17th of February, 1836, Captain Clarke, then on j j!
board the schooner referred to, had a dream of so vivid a character that j (j
it produced a great impression upon him. He dreamed that being at ! j j
Lyme Regis, he saw pass before him the funeral of his grandmother, j j j
He took note of the chief persons who composed the procession, j(j
 —  . — :  —— —1 in
* Philosophy qf Sleep: Third edition p. 144,
observed who were the pall-bearers, who were the mourners, and the
j order in which they proceeded, and also who was the officiating
clergyman. He joined the procession as it approached the churchyard
j gate, and proceeded with it to the grave. He thought (in his dream)
j that the weather was stormy, and the ground wet, as after a heavy
j rain ; and he noticed that the wind, being high, blew the pall partly off
the coffin. The graveyard which they entered—the old Protestant one
in the centre of the town—was the same in which, as Captain Clarke
knew, their own burying-place was. He perfectly recollected its
situation, but, instead of proceeding thither, he was astonished to find
that the funeral procession wended its way to another part of the
churchyard at some distance. There, still in his dream, he saw the
grave partially filled with water, as if from the heavy rain, and, on
looking into it, he particularly noticed two field mice floating about
drowned. Afterward, in his dream, he seemed to hold a conversation
with his mother, who told him the funeral had been fixed to take place
at ten in the morning, but that, owing to the inclement weather,
and the heavy falling rain, it had been delayed till four in the afternoon;
to which he replied that that was a fortunate circumstance, as it had
enabled him to be present, which he could not have been had it taken
place in the forenoon. . This dream made such an impression upon
Captain Clarke that the next morning he noted down the date of it.
Some time afterwards he received the news of his grandmother’s
death, with the additional particular that her remains had been buried
on the very day on which he, being in North America at the time, had
dreamed of her funeral. When four years afterwards Captain Clarke
visited Lyme Regis, he found that every particular of his dream
minutely corresponded with the reality. The officiating clergyman, the
pall-bearers, and the mourners were the very persons whom he had
seen. This, however, we may suppose he might very naturally have
anticipated. But the funeral had been fixed for ten in the morning,
and in consequence of the inclement weather had been delayed until
four in the afternoon. His mother, who attended the funeral, distinctly
recollected that the high wind did blow the pall partly off the coffin.
In consequence of a wish expressed by the old lady shortly before her
death, she was buried, not in the burying place of the family, but at
another spot selected by herself ; and to this spot Captain Clarke,
without any indication from the family or otherwise, proceeded at once,
as directly as if he had been present at the funeral. Finally, on com¬
paring notes with the old sexton, it appeared that the heavy rain of the
morning had partially filled the grave, and there were actually found
in it two field mice drowned.
These circumstances were taken down by Robert Dale
Owen from Captain Clarke’s lips on board his own schooner
at New York, on the 28th of July, 1859, with permission
from Captain Clarke to use his name in attestation of its
truth.
And what explanation has Dr. Macnish to offer to such an
incident ? Hear his own words, “ There can be no doubt
that many circumstances occurring in our dreams have been
actually verified; but this must be regarded as altogether
the effect of chance; and for one dream which turns out to
be true, at least a thousand are false. In fact, it is only
when they are of the former description, that we take
any notice of them; the latter are looked upon as
mere idle vargaries, and speedily forgotten.” But
can this explanation be considered satisfactory. Ad¬
mitting that Captain Clarke had been thinking of his grand¬
mother’s death, and that this thought was “ resuscitated or
reembodied in a dream,”—admitting even that by a strange
coincidence (a very strange one indeed) that he had dreamed
of her funeral in North America on the very day in which
that funeral had actually taken place in England; how are
we to account for the minor circumstances of the case ? How
could he have known that the funeral was fixed for ten in the
morning and had been delayed till four in the afternoon? How
could he have known that the wind blew the pall partly off
the coffin ? How could he have known that the old lady’s re¬
mains had not been buried in the family burying place, but
in another part of the churchyard ? Finally, how could he
have known that the grave had ^been partly filled with water;
and that two field mice had been found in it drowned ? No,
the chance theory will not do. There are only two ways, as
it appears to me, in which this story can be explained.
Either we must admit the prophetic character of the
dream; or assume, and that without the slightest ground for
the assumption, that Capt. Clarke deliberately imposed upon
Robert Owen by a tissue of unmeaning falsehoods.
AN ACTUAL MURDER WITNESSED IN A DREAM.
The next example of this kind to which I shall call your
attention, is extracted from a work by Dr. Carlyon, of Pem¬
broke College, entitled, Early Years and Late Reflections,
and its truth is vouched for by the doctor himself. Indeed,
he had the dream from the very gentleman to whom it
occurred, and authenticates his facts with every particular
as to time, date, and place.
August 24, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
95
On the evening of the eighth of February, 1840, Mr. Novell Norway,
a Cornish gentleman, was cruelly murdered by two brothers of the
name of Lightfoot, on his way from Bodmin to Wadebridge, the place
of his residence.
At that time his brother, Mr. Edmund Norway, was in the command
of a merchant vessel, the Orient, on her voyage from Manilla to Cadiz ;
and the following is his own account of a dream which he had on the
night when his brother was murdered:—
Ship Orient, from Manilla to Cadiz, February 8, 1840.
About 7.30 p.m. The island of St. Helena, NNW., distant about
seven miles; shortened sail and rounded to with the ship’s head to the
eastward; at eight, set the watch and went below; wrote a letter to
my brother, Novell Norway. About twenty minutes or a quarter
before ten o’clock went to bed ; fell asleep, and dreamt I saw two men
attack my brother and murder him. One caught the horse by the
bridle, and snapped a pistol twice, but I heard no report; he then
struck him a blow, and he fell off the horse. They struck him several
blows, and dragged him by the shoulders across the road and left him.
In my dream there was a house on the left-hand side of the road. At
four o’clock I was called, and went on deck to take charge of the ship.
I told the second officer, Mr. Henry Wren, that I had had a dreadful
dream—namely, that my brother Novell was murdered by two men on
the road from St. Oolumb to Wadebridge, but that I felt sure it could
not be there, as the house there would have been on the right-hand side
of the road ; so that it must have been somewhere else. He replied,
“ Don’t think anything about it. You West-country people are so super¬
stitious! You will make yourself miserable the remainder of the
voyage.” He then left general orders and went below. It was one
continued dream from the time I fell asleep until I was called at four
o’clock in the morning.—Edmund Norway, Chief Officer, ship Orient.
So much for the dream. Now for the confession of William Light-
foot, one of the assassins, who was executed together with his brother,
at Bodmin, on Monday, April 13, 1840 :—
<{ I went to Bodmin last Saturday week, the 8th inst. (February 8th,
1840), and in returning I met my brother James at the head of
Dummeer Hill. It was dim, like. We came on the turnpike road all
the way till we came to the house near the spot where the murder was
committed. (This house was uninhabited, and stood alone.) We did
not go into the house, but hid ourselves in a field. My brother knocked
Mr. Norway down. He snapped a pistol at him twice, and it did not go
off. He then knocked him down with the pistol. I was there along
with him. Mr. Norway was struck while on horseback. It was on the
turnpike road, between Pencarrow Mill and the directing-post toward
Wadebridge. I cannot say at what time of the night it was. We left
the body in the water, on the left side of the road coming to Wadebridge.
We took some money in a purse, but I did not know how much. My
brother drew the body across the road to the watering.”
It is not necessary to detail the evidence adduced on the trial. Suffice
it to say it was all of a corroborative character. Here, then, we have
an instance in which a gentleman on board ship seven miles from St.
Helena sees in a dream the murder of his brother, on the very night in
which that brother was murdered in England. It is true that he had
been writing to that brother before going to bed. It is possible that he
may have fallen asleep while thinking of him. It was therefore natural
that he should dream of his brother ; but was it natural (using that
word in its ordinary acceptation) that he should dream of that brother’s
murder, with all its attendant circumstances ? For just compare these
circumstances as written down in the ship’s log-book at the time, and
when they were all fresh in the dreamer’s memory, and as given in the
confession of William Lightfoot, one of the assassins. The coincidence
as to time is simply exact. Both the dream and the murder occur on
the same night, and as near as can be ascertained at the very same hour.
Mr. Norway dreamt that his brother was murdered by two men. The
actual murderers were William and James Lightfoot. Mr. Norway
dreamt that it was on the road from St. Columb to Wadebridge. The
murder was committed on the turnpike road, between Pencarrow Mill
and the directing-post towards Wadebridge. .Mr. Norway dreamt that
one of the men caught the horse by the bridle, and snapped a pistol
twice, but he heard no report. He then struck him a blow, and he fell
off his horse.
James Lightfoot did snap a pistol twice, and it did not go off. He
then knocked him down with the pistol..... Mr. Norway was struck
while on horseback.
Mr. Norway dreamt that the murderers struck his brother several
blows, and dragged him by the shoulders across the road and left him.
James Lightfoot drew the body across the road to the watering 
The murderers left the body in the water on the left side of the road
coming to Wadebridge.
To say of such a dream as this that it was the mere pro¬
duct of a half-awake brain, and its fulfilment the work of
chance, appears to me to be little less than an outrage upon
common sense. The circumstance of the pistol twice missing
fire, seen in dream, and occurring in reality, is of itself quite
sufficient to put Dr. Macnish’s favourite theory completely
out of court. It is like two feet of ribbon applied to a yard
measure, the ribbon will not and cannot be made to fit, pull
it and twist it how we may.
This power of prophetic dreaming is not unfrequently
developed to an extraordinary extent a little before death,
as if, to quote the words of Waller :—
“ The soul’s dark cottage, battered and decayed,
Lets in new light through chinks that time has made.”
A DEATH WARNING. '
In November, 1872, a collier named Samuel Tinsley was killed by a
fall of rock in a pit near Wolverhampton. On the inquest it transpired
that on the night preceding his death he had awoke his wife, saying he
had a ton weight of rock on his head. His wife suggested that it
might be the headache. He replied that it was not that, and expressed
his conviction that the dream portended evil. He was very unwilling
| to go to work in the morning, but on being urged to do so by his wife,
went to his little child, and saying, “ Let me have my last kiss,” pro-
I ceeded to the pit. He had not been at work long when, while “ setting
a tree,” a large piece of rock fell on his head, and killed him on the
spot.*
In cases of this kind, where a dream portending death is
| afterwards verified, the explanation usually adopted is, that
its fulfilment must be attributed to the excessive fear of the
dreamer—the power of imagination, &c. ; and I could easily
adduce facts, if necessary, for the purpose of showing the
power of imagination upon certain constitutions, but it is
not requisite to do so in the present instance, since no one,
I believe, will assert that imagination is ever strong enough
to pull a ton weight of rock upon a man’s head, and kill him.
NEWS OP THE DEATH OP DUKE OP WELLINGTON GIVEN IN AMERICA BY A DREAM.
The following letter from Dr. Hamilton, of Canada, was
| written to the late Dr. Neale, and is published by that
| gentleman in his Unseen World:—
Dear Sir,—In reply to your note of the 14th relative to the remarks
made by Captain Brown touching the death of the late Duke of
I Wellington, I will give you the facts.
On the morning of the 15th of September last I received a note from
j my sister-in-law, urging me to lose no time in seeing her father, who
was losing blood to a fearful extent. I immediately left the town, and
, j on my arrival found him in great pain ; his mind perfectly clear. I
II left his room to prepare medicine ; my sister-in-law followed, and re-
I i marked that he had been wandering during the night, as he insisted
|| on repeating to her that Arthur, Duke of Wellington, was dead, and
i i that there was great work in England at his sudden death; that the
[ Duxe, Napoleon, Mahomet Ali, and George Brown were born the same
ij year, and that he was the last of the four. On the 16th he was much
\ i relieved, and able to leave his room for the parlour, and while in jocose
II conversation I made the remark that I had been greatly alarmed at his
having killed the Duke of Wellington the night before, and fancied
11 that he was wandering. He said his mind was never clearer. On the
11 17th his case rapidly assumed a hopeless character. He became in-
| sensible towards night, and continued in that state till the following
i morning at 10 a.m. Two gentlemen called just before he died, and I
I mentioned to them what had occurred ; and I was constantly asked
! by persons as to the truth of the foregoing facts many days before the
j melancholy tidings of the Duke’s death could reach America.—I re-
! main, &c., Morgan Hamilton.+
I Goderich, January 18th, 1853.
| The Duke of Wellington died on the 14tli September, at
j half-past three p.m., or nine ar.m. Goderich time; or, in
| other words, on the morning of the day at the conclusion of
j which Captain Brown, being at the time confined to his bed
I in America, related the circumstance to his daughter; and
j are we to call this occurrence the “ mere resuscitation or re-
| embodiment of the waking thoughts, the transient paroxysm
| of delirium, and its fulfilment the work of chance ?” Is it
| a sufficient explanation to say that((the fulfilment of it at
| the very time when the event took place is certainly a very
| remarkable coincidence.” How much more reasonable are
j the words of Sir Thomas Brown himself, an acute and
I practised physician: “ I observe that men oftentimes upon
i| | the hour of their departure do speak and reason above them-
jj | selves, for then the soul begins to be freed from the liga-
] | ments of the body—begins to reason like herself, and to
|| discourse in a strain above mortality.”
THE MATERIALISTIC AND SPIRITUAL THEORY OF DREAMS CONTRASTED.
But there is no room for the soul in Dr. Macnish’s philo-
| sophy. According to it man stands before us as a mere in-
I tellectual animal, as a living, working machine. “ Sleep is
j the intermediate state between wakefulness and death,
I wakefulness being regarded as the actual state of all the
| animal and intellectual functions, and death as that of their
I total suspension. Birth and death are (in fact) the Alpha
and Omega of existence.”
We have all heard of the atheist’s favourite epitaph :
| “ Death is an eternal sleep.” Yet what is this but a legiti-
| mate sequence from Dr. Macnish’s philosophy ? If profound
| sleep be indeed a “ temporary metaphysical death,” is it not
| reasonable to conclude that actual death may be an eternal
sleep ? For bear in mind that, however profound sleep may
* Guardian newspaper, November 27tli, 1872,
[ t Unseen World, p. 167,
96
THE SPIKITUALIST.
August 24, 1877.
be, there are still indications of life ; the heart still beats,
the blood continues to circulate, however imperceptibly.
Lady Fanshawe’s mother remained for more than two days
in such a profound sleep as to be mistaken by all around
her for actual death. But no sooner did the surgeon apply
his lancet to her foot than the blood flowed- forth, and the
supposed dead awoke to tell her wondrous dream.
How different in the case of actual death. The heart
beats no more, the blood has ceased to circulate, the stethe- |
scope and the lancet are alike useless, and as we gaze on j
that lovely form, once so bright and beautiful, now so cold
and death-like, exhibiting perhaps the unmistakable signs
of decay, how are we reminded of the words of the poet:— j
If I had thought thou eould’st have died,
I might not weep for thee,
But I forgot, when by thy side,
That thou could’st mortal be.
It never through my mind had passed
The time would e’er be o’er,
And I on thee should look my last,
And thou should’st smile no more.
And oh! in such an hour, how will the old, old question
force itself upon the mind: “If a man die, shall he live
again?” And where shall we look for an answer? To
the Bible? But, alas! how many—how very many there j]
are whom the Bible fails to convince ? How many to whom j
the glorious truths contained in its precious pages sound but |
as idle tales ? Bishop Burnet informs us that the Earl of I
Rochester, with the Bible in his hands, remained utterly I
sceptical as to the existence of the soul, and a future life, j
until these truths were forced upon his attention by a well- j
authenticated, verified dream. Indeed, if we may judge |
from his own words, Dr. Macnish himself appears to be far I
from satisfied as to a future life, in spite of his references to I
the sacred writings, for he not only speaks of birth and j
death as the “Alpha and the Omega of existence,” but adds, j
“ from sleep we wake to exertion—from death, not at all.
At least, on this side of time., Methuselah in ancient, and
Thomas Parr in modern times, ate well, digested well, and
slept well; but at length they each died. Death is omni¬
vorous. The worm which crawls on the highway, and the
monarch on his couch of state are alike subjected to the
same stern and inexorable law. They alike become the
victims of the universal tyrant.”
What, is this all that can be gathered from the Philosophy I
of Sleep ? Is death the Omega of existence—the total sus¬
pension of all the intellectual functions ? Must we lay j
down all our little store of knowledge at the door of the j
tomb? Then, indeed, may we write over that monument I
of blighted affections—disappointed hopes—unsatisfied aspi- j
rations, that sad, sad epitaph, ff The dead know not anything ; j
neither have they any more a reward; . . . also their love j
and their hatred are now finished.” But there is another j
side to the picture. We have seen that in sleep—even the j
most profound—the better part of man can think, reason,
calculate, resolve difficult problems, aye, sometimes even j'
use the very members of the sleeping body to accomplish j!
feats utterly beyond it during the waking state.* Is it not i
clear, then, that they must be two distinct and different |
substances ? since, while the one sinks under the burden and |
fatigue of the day, the other is fresh and active as the flame; j
while the one is dead to the world, the other is ranging in j
thought through the universe. “ Why then,” to quote the !
words of Bishop Newton, “ should the death of one be the |
death of the other, any more than the sleep of the one is the j
sleep of the other? Since the soul can think and act in |
this manner without the body, even while united to it, why j
should she not be able to think and act in a more enlarged j
and exalted manner when separated from it, or united to a j
spiritual body that shall no longer hinder her operations ? ||
Since the soul hath her distinct joys and sorrows, pleasures j
and pains, while the body is senseless and asleep, why should j
she not be capable of the same when the body shall be no |
more.” I
Do not misunderstand me. I do not build my hopes of j
a future life on dreams. I arrive at that glorious truth in j
quite another way. But I do believe that dreams are an j
occasional means of communication between the present I
| Philosophy of Sleep, 178-9,
|| and the future, between the denizens of earth and the loved
| ones gone before, between the battlefield of life, and the
| Paradise of God. I believe that they form one step of that
I mysterious ladder set up upon the earth, whose top reacheth
j unto heaven, and upon which the angels of God ascend and
| descend continually. I believe that “ in a dream, in a vision
| of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumber-
| ings upon the bed, then God (in some way that we understand
| not) openeth the ears of men, and scaleth their instruction,
j that he may withdraw man from his purpose, and hide pride
i from man.”
And I would say to all those who have hitherto passed by
j the subject as unworthy of serious consideration, look into
11 it carefully, investigate it thoroughly; it is a book open to
i! all, a philosophy of facts, and facts are God’s arguments.
[ | Birmingham.
NEWS OF PRINCE WITTGENSTEIN.
The following paragraph from the Times of August 10th,
| shows that Prince Wittgenstein, who numbers so many
| friends among the readers of these pages, has been engaged
i in forcing the Shipka Pass, during the present unhappy war.
| The Times correspondent who gives the news is Lieut.-Col.
| 0. B. Brackenbury:—
Kezanlik, July 17th.
Prince Wittgenstein and Count Roniker rode into the
| town to find lodgings for the General and staff, and I took
j the opportunity of accompanying them, and getting some-
| tiling to eat. I meant to ride out again, as to remain
I seemed dangerous as yet; but, finding a house where Bul-
i garians bade me welcome, I took my chance and stayed.
July 18th.
Count Roniker, of the kindest and best of men, was killed
| this morning by some of the roving band of Turks who
I remain close to the town. He left the service more than
twenty years ago, but entered it again to make this crusade
of the 19 th century, though he had everything that could make
peace delightful—abundant means, a pleasant home, a wife and
children. He rode out with his Cossacks, intending to go
to the bivouac at Skipka, but it seems that they took a road too
much to the left, and knew not that they were in the wrong
direction till a volley from some bushes succeeded by a second
brought him and a Cossack to the ground. The Cossacks charged
and killed about ten of the Turks, but could not save their
commander, who, with several bullets in his thigh and an
artery cut, soon bled to death. For some time past he had
been under the impression that he should be killed, and paid
Prince Wittgenstein a little debt of ten francs, saying that
one must not have debts when one’s life is in play day by
,. day. Russian officers say that his dog, which has come all
I the way from Tirnova, howled during the past night and
| could not be repressed. To me his loss is greater than I
j can say, for with frank simplicity he took me by the hand
I on the top of the Balkans and told me that a corner in his
I tent and such food as he had was always at my disposal.
I Though I have not profited by his] kindness, the] memory of
[ I it remains, and I followed his body to the grave to-day with
j a sad heart. About the same time as Count Roniker went
| out this morning, I rode with Prince Zerteljieff to the bivouac
j at Shipka, and it seems almost as if we had done him a
| wrong in taking the right path. If his widow and orphans
I could hear what is said of him here, they would at least
I have the consolation of knowing that he was beloved by all.
| Was it Superstition ?—Louis Napoleon in his will emphasises the
j solemn declaration, “ With regard to my son, let him keep as a talisman
| the seal I used to wear attached to my watch.” Wolsey was warned of
j his doom by a crozier head; Sejanus by flight of crows. Dr. Johnson
objected to going under a ladder. Montaigne avoided giving his left
foot priority in putting on his stockings. Alexander was believed to
have cut the Gordian knot with a slice of his sword. For good luck’s
sake, Augustus wore some portion of a sea-calf; Charlemagne, some
1 trinket of unknown value. Mahomet was all fate, Bonaparte all star
| and destiny ; Cromwell believed in September 3rd, and Louis Napoleon
in December 2nd. Sylla called himself Felix—the child of fortune—
and Timoleon turned his house into a temple of chance. No doubt
there was a good deal of imposture in alchemy ; no doubt, too, the wish
for gold was father to the thought of alchemy; but this itself v/ill not
| account for Jean de Lisle expiating by an early death in the Bastile his
bold attempts to persuade Louis XIV-. and his ministers that he pos-
' sessed the gold-making stone,—-.Rtmwr of Light,
August 24, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualismby a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn ifrom
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. 6d.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Gwen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining file author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. 6d,
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN . SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. V/.'
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums/.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 8s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern. Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of iamous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or leSs literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Snpomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
,eving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo„
600 pp. Cloth 10s. Od.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
Is. 0d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them: they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no douht as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com-
mumcatiou should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation Is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, 10s, od.; cheap edition,
?s. Od. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. Od.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. Os.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s, 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Od.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 8s. _
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The " Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Vol.' I. Gt. Harmonla . .
The Teacher. „ II. , .
The Seer. „ III, „ . ,
The Reformer. „ IV. ... >
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . . «
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of «. Seer. (Memoranda.) .
Philosophy of Special Providence , , .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . .
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Loeturea . , , ,
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 0
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 0
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS (
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .... 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spirituaiist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . , 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 o
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen , 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. .10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . io 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 0
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10 o
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 ,0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Gongestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 0
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of Auerica
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . , 18 fl
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. -
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . .  10 0
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Otheb
Obseevees in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, TP.C'.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Peess.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison's opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension), is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—•
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make -converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be ■
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un -
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and sho ws their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russe
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may ho proved by chemical1
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for tie Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267,High Holborn,
London, W.O.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-Street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
August 24, 1877,
The great question of the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from. Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases.' Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
t>f the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever aloneimay be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000'persons haVe' dfed
of this preventable disease since the ’"deathijof ‘PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND,, GOOD.Under;; the', Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their 'appliances"were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
Slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped,; as the j solitary wretch who
causes1 his fellow a violent 'death ?' The murderer, as he is
called, is’quietly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands, every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest^ 4 The,most
ordinaryTobserveriniustlbe*struck*with;; the1, huge" blunder.
WHO’S TO 'BLAME ? 'Fdr the'means of : preyenting ,prema-.
ture death from disease read a.,large illustrated sheet.'giyen
With each botilo of ENUS ' FRUlT 4SALT {.the infdrmatioh’is
nvaluablel" The Fruit'.'Salt.' (one. of hature's^pwu Products) i
keepsthe blood pure, and is thus "oMtself Tone oft the most'’
Valuable means of keeping the blood free from'fevers*and
:bl<iod poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered.'”'As ,'a ’
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and!
it ^is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used,, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the bbdy healthy was universally known,
not a household ifuthe land would,be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or 'portmanteau'but. would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.^A gentleman’writes
“In cases of bilious.headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FltUIT S ALT'has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed.-*'The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases, resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered crimina,!.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th editidnj post free 14’stamps.; -J
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopabdy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE, and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use,
ENO’S FRUIT, SALT ...
(PEEPABED ' FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).'
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional,Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,'
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness,, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of, which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or .residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to.be an" indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they ,dp in a,colder country,while so much;
heat-making food is' hot required in the warmer climate. '. By
keeping the system clear,', the:, Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L.A.C., London, writes:—
“I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, haying tried,it on
myself. Your theory and remarks', are ; most reasonable.
Having nearly' died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one put of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood., Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ If eel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“YourFruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and 'it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it .to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
. “ 14, Rue dela Falx, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He say s he never
knew what it was to be without pain uutil he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“M.BERAL."
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d. •
Sole Agent for P«ns-PHARMACIE -DE BERAL, 14. RUE
DE LA. FA IX .
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT; ■ _
’PROVED FROM'' RECORDS ^ AND . jVORKS - bif' THE
.v.t » , subject.■ raxfv \
. a. BY.v “ SI.A. (OXON.).^- ’
Introductory,Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
■ its'mafiy-sldedness/ Certain broad? views to be more par-
•" ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION I.
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus-
■ trated from Epes Sargent’s Blanchette (reviewed), Mrs.
- Hardinge Britten's History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and'Modern Spiritualism, Howitt’s
I History*Of ith'erSupernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, Judge
a Edmond’s Tracts. MlNi - ■
SECTION II.
.SciEijTiFic.—Dealing with some aspects'.of tthe .phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference^ to theories . and .explanations ;that
have been given. .Hudson Tuttle'^ Arcane^^pivjtuhlism,.
(reviewed), Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically ^Explained, i
Crooke’s Researches, De. Morgan's"From 'Matter to Spirit.^ \
. SECTIONtlll. > ''•1 h ' j T1 ^ 1 ^ ^
PHENOMENAL;;—Dealing: with published accounts of form;'.
- (manifestation, ^specially 1 from\01cjptt’s.1 People'from i tlie ’i
Other, Wprlcl (reyiewgd), Epes Sargent’s P^roof^Palpable iqfl
a Immortality, .Wolfe’s Startling'Facts in Modern-Spirit--
'.ualismT % .v:‘ *
B ■■I. BRn section, iv;.
RELiQipus.^Showing the’ religious1 side of,the, subject as
v brought out irfCrowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern-
■ Spiritualism (revibwCd), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debateable Lcmc(,, S. O. JJall’s Use of Spiritualism.
' SECTION V.
CLAIRVOYANCE.—Dealing with the'inherent, powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exemplified ..in simple clear-
sight or psychometricaily ih Denton’s^owJ of ^Thing's, &n&.
Andrew J. Davis’s. Magic Staff_ (reviewed),'"Cahagnet’s
Arcana de la vis Puture^'
■r.c, .SEQTION VI.
Occultism.—Dealing further with certain occult powers of
1 the human-.spirR, and with phenomena attributable to them,
J as shown \n~Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed),and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished. ,
THE .TRANS-CORPORE AL ACTION OF SPIRPT,'
Especially during Sleep: Immediately .Before," and at
the Time of 'Death : and under'some Strong Passion-
or Emotion. .
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the hook: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can he ascertained.]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the hook of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in eompliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion* as to'the title and scope of the work. The title-now
affixed explains.what is intended. The,scope of vthe work is’
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as? they are .presented in
the works of other authors; and so topoint out and summarise-
the-best books on the subject.
.Though;the, plan may be modified, it will not be substan¬
tially changed. ■
The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism,'
* M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should he sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers -into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no' results be obtained
on ,the first,occasion,. try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found ih nearly every household.
•.Let, the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that,there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the'sitting of the circle. . .
Let the circle cohsisf of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number - of each sex.' ■ Sit round : an : uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand-from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to' prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed, physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has ho influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should he of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably he table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to anintelligeht being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the’ letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage?”' Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and' from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, "Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards he strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should.be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged, spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues find fill the failings of humanity.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
* ' M -n ■ OR
':, r>A^IMALt, MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
- CT&miStfy a,at;Fdifi9uryh University,
Dedicated by the 'Author .by*-Permission to His Grace
- the Duke of‘‘AigyllS*- W
The second and slightlysrevisedfand abridged edition, for
its quality and size the.cheapegt.laugpjwqjfcgyer published
in this country ih connection with Spiritualism? ,
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d/post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also' b<f^ ha'd':b.bfirRl; in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d, per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
\State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the»Bl'eep-^Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
: Pain;'^
. CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
jeptJinl VajiqusiWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of ‘MusioA-Tmtlifulness of the Sleeper—Various
|D.egrge'soffSusceptibility^Sleep.Causedtby. Silent Will: and at a
‘Di&tahce-^ttTfptiotfTowardsJthelOperator—Effect in the Waking
iState" of-’Commands Given in*the gjffepHMMWl
t CHAPTER III": — Sraipathy.-j^,Community- of > Sensations of
Emotions — Dariger.' of rEashVExperimehts^B}ibljc.s Exhibitions of
Doubtfur Advantage — .Sympathy>with\thj^ Bystanders^Thbught-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical jlrituition-jSympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipatliies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence. " ’ .,***, -
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid VVision, .without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through'OpaqueTBoijieg;: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard1 to ‘Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Tntrovision.
■ CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction .of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes-
merised Tersohs—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
- CHAPTER <YI‘Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism/essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious'or Waking State-^Dr*Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and” its Results-^The fImpressible State-
Control ExefcMd'bK,the;Ogdrator—GazifigVMr.’Braid’s Hypnotism'
—The Author’s Experience—Importance^ of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must bVStu died.' , . •'..) , f V* -^
' CHAPTER .VII:—Trance, ‘Natural and>Accidgjijial; ’Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Willbythe Subjects^Col^Towhseiid—Fakeers—
Extasis^-Extatics not alPImposterk-^Lumiribus Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s'Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.    '• ' M
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IXAction of Magnets, Crystals,, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influencebvhich Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora-Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised.Water— Useful ^Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological.Therapeutical.etc.—Treatmefit’of Insan¬
ity, Magic,- Divination, Witchcraft/etc. j|explained by .Mesmerism,
and - Traced : to'Natural * Causes—Apparitions —Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions'of Various'Kinds.'
CHAPTER X An Explanation of the'Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thougbt-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
- CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hintsr-Conditidns of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be StudenWOpposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER'XIIIProduction of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight ’out of Nine Persons Recently Tried' by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—SuggeStion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—rCases—Perception of Time
—Cases:'Sir J.’Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
I CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters .'of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis^-Other Cases.-
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions. •
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, ;Great Russell-street,. W.O.
F HUDSON, photographer, earnestly, desires
•» EMPLOYMENT that will keep hini and hls family
from want. Having no premises that can be used for photo¬
graphy, he is forced to look to other means of gaining a liveli¬
hood, and is willing to undertake any other sort of work suited
to his capacity. Address—25, Covent-gardens, Notting-hill.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address O.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St/ George’s-
road.   ' *=•/■, ... 
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may, be
obtained speedily every, week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. j Evening special at 7.30.' •
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bbybbidgh & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s'Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
M&ria-lahe, London, E.O. *
