Registered as a Nl^fp/ter
Otf f)$Ydl&OI<OGUCi&I<
. rnnmd^ ioiilj ^pintualism In <§>mf
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : II, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia,
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co ,
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 347. (Vox,. XIY.—No. 16.) LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©rmtents
Liberty of Conscience 181
The Investigation of Spiritualism in Holland and Else¬
where. By A. J. Riko  ...  181
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena and Divination.
By Eliza Boucher    182
“ Through the Grave and Gate of Death." By J. A. Camp¬
bell. (Poetry.)         183
A 'Welsh Ghost Story    ... 183
Seances in Glasgow    ...  183
Opening Services at Steinway Hall  ...   185
The Late M. Pierart. By F. Clavairoz, Consul-General
of France at Trieste 186
An “ Absolute Test ” Materialisation Seance. By Charles
Blackburn  ...  186
The Gras.) of an Unseen Hand. By E. Fortescuo Ingram,
MROS E 187
“ Words Made Flesh.’’ By j. A. Campbell   ...187
Spiritualism in Edinburgh... ... ... ... ...   187
Correspondence:—Errata 187
Spiritualistic Experiences in the Home Circle. By Morell
Theobald ...       ... ... 188
The Thirty-first Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism ... 191
Obituary   191
Aspiration. By Ella Dietz. (Poetry.) 191
A Hymn from the Rig-Veda        192
To Correspondents 192
“THE SPIRITUALISTNEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
BSTABUSHRD IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-I- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess or
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barristcr-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer oh Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnR Purdon.M.B.(India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the *' Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies. D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.8.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.RI., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,‘M.D. (Australia): and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
In the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London; 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Faul's-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-placo, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOffice, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
'OAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
JLVi AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, <fcc., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.;. or with Ephemeris, ISd.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the'Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London; J. E. Catty 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours of
2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Saturday,
when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and 6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR APRIL.
Tuesday11s#.—Sofrde Committee at. 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee at
5.30 p.m.
Friday, 4th., and succeeding Fridays (except Friday,
11th. — Experimental Research Com¬
mittee at 7 p.m.
Monday,1th.—General Purposes Committee at 4.30 pm.
Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Mr.’iMorell Theobald, “ Experi¬
ences in the Home Circle, No. II.”
Tuesday, 8th.—Finance Committee at 6 pm.
„ „ OodnciIj Meeting at 6.30 pm.
Monday, 21s#.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 pm.
Paper by the Rev. W. Miall “ On
Exoteric Observations on Spiritualism.”
Tuesday, 29<A—Soiree at 38,(Great Russell-street. Music,
Conversation, and Refreshments. Open
to members and friends. Admission, Is.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akeeman-boad, Bbixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &e., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. Seo.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
WILL HOLD
SUNDAY EVENING SERVICES
AT
STEIN WAY HALL,
Lower Seymour-street, Portman-square, London, W.
ADMISSION FREE.
Those subscribing One Guinea are entitled to sofa stalls;
other subscribers of 10s. 6d. and 5s. are given numbered stalls.
Tickets date from April 1st to June 80th. To be obtained
from Mr. Fletcher, 4, Bloomsbury-plaoe, W.O., and Miss Leslie
Younge, 32, Fairfax-road, N.W. Lecture at 7'30 p.m.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 8s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces,
Everything of the best quality,
■ At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.'W
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs, Weldon.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thonsand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trtjbner & Co. London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislinghury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislingbury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mr. Calder, “ The New Era.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Horpe
Circle,” No. 2.
April 21.—The Rev. W. Miall, “ Exoteric Observation in Spirit¬
ualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism."
May 19.—
June 2.—Mr. G. F. Green, “ Spiritualism and its Teachings, ia
their relation to Problems of Government."
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW
Is now issued Monthly at 6d., or 7s. per annum,
sent free by post.
Post Office orders payable to the publishers,
Hay Nisbet and Co., 52, Ropework-Lane, Glasgow.
CONTENTS FOR APRIL.
Ourselves and Science ; by Dr. Hitchman—Spiritual Mani¬
festations ; by Thos. Brevier—What is it ? by Rev. J. P.
Hopps—Garland of Legends, from Montalembert’s Monks'of
the West; by A. M. W.—A Woman’s Word on Divine Judg¬
ment ; by J. W. F.—Inspiration, No. III.: The Myth of the
Logos; by Mrs. De Morgan—William Howitt (with two
engravings); by S. C. Hall—A Student's Sea Story; by Mrs.
H. B. Stowe—At Vesper; by T. S.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
Glasgow: H. JN isbet and Co., 62, Ropework-lane,
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving yon time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
0. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Litdgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fec.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851 
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings,. Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on t!0 minimuna
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts^
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends ana
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Lunacy law reform association
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Honrs from 10 to 4
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays. -
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Ca'der, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1. Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cam bridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G*» M.g.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Honywood. Mrs., S2, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley. N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D.,12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby TTouse, Belper.
Barkas, T. P„ Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Blnney, F. A., 24, St Ann s-square, Manchester
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H.. 94, Comwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., latepf H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 5, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., SO, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Olendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. DeJamere-erescent, Westbourne-square,- W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart, Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stairton. M.A., University College, N.W.
Nogworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, 'Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, 8. Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, O.. 15. Harnur-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3/Blandford-square, N.W.
Relirers. Christian, 47, Morning+on-road Regent’s-park.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford. ~
Theobald, Moroll. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M.. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedi.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
WIthall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honot'ary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq, Morell Theobald, Esq.
Secretary.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adclma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Bareness Guidenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
..Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veb, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Wme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy,
flerr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
.1. M. Peebles,Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co..New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta,
lames Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-sireet, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2.985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, Hew York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq,, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs, J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
3. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11 .Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.8.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Lonuon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul. Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Botton, C.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.8.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Peith, Hungary,
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epo-jes, Hungary.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
April 18, 1879.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54,Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modlir.g, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
AMca.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York.
T. Bly ton. Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. For
terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Government prosecutions for
MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“ Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P., and others.
Forty pp., Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
" Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It Is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. Gd. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part L
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—IL The Song of Truth.—IIL
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVL Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “ jor a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness,
—Xxx, Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Ahthoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritual ist N ewspaper Branch Office.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY, Given through the medinmship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened," being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened." The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE, COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It shows
(we think successfully) that every form of mediumship, now so
familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of
identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrowing
parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <&e., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds cf Spiritual literature.
M
Paris.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from IS to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honors,
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address^ 35, Blnrton-road, Clap-
ton-park, E.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private stances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-square,
from 2 to 5, overy day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can be made
by letter sent to the above address.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-eourt, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-kill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
ANNIE LOOMIS, previous to withdrawal
from the Profession, can be consulted for one month,
at 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury. Hours 12 to 5. Free con¬
sultations to the poor, Saturday.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
.lA. ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15di of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Soditi
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PS^CHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandbb Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Motze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can he
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael's-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-streot; and Mr. Boughton, St. George's-road
JL xil xtf !|^ nnh xtf ^pujiitmlbm*
Ko. 347.—Voujjvie Fourteen; Number Sixteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 18th, 1879.
LIBEETY OF CONSCIENCE.
Mr. William Tebb, well known to many of the readers of
these pages, has been grievously persecuted by the St.
Pancras Guardians, because he conscientiously refuses to
allow a child of his to be vaccinated. Into the disputed
question whether vaccination is good or bad we do not enter,
but there should be no prosecution in police courts of
individuals who, after careful research, come to the con¬
scientious conclusion that vaccination is an evil. On d
priori grounds it may be asserted that the original scheme
of creation was not so faulty, that human beings thence¬
forth could not pass through their allotted three score years
and ten without having diseased matter from a diseased calf
put into their blood. Moreover, some doctors in extensive
practice do not believe in it, although they have plenty of
facilities for knowing the results. Children are quite
commonly killed by it, or rather by erysipelas following the
operation, but the latter alone is mentioned in the medical
certificate of the cause of death. Anti-vaccinators should
tell parents everywhere to refuse to accept such certificates,
and insist upon the alteration of the words to il died of
erysipelas brought on by vaccination,” and if the doctor
refuses to insert the whole truth, should lodge information
with the proper authorities as to the untrustworthiness of
the certificate. This line of action would alter somewhat
the present statistics on the subject.
The Government might permit non-vaccination under
suitable restrictions, and order a register to be kept of un¬
vaccinated persons. Time would then prove whether they
were more subject than others to small-pox.
The evil aspects of vaccination are probably exaggerated
by the opponents of the operation. We knew a lady who
sometimes vaccinated herself for amusement, and never
seemed to be any the worse for it; if it did no good, it
seemed to do no harm.
A neat little newspaper, entitled The Vaccination Inquirer,
has just been started. It is published by Mr. E. W. Allen,
of 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, and contains, among others,
a most interesting article by Mr. William White, displaying
a considerable amount of literary research into the early
history of vaccination. Mr. White says that Cotton Mather,
of Boston, Massachusetts, had been elected a Fellow of the
Royal Society of London, and selections from his correspon¬
dence appeared in The Philosophical Transactions, No. 338,
1714. He adds that:—
“ Cotton Mather is one of the marvels of biography—a
choice specimen of Puritanism developed without check. He
was a man of boundless energy and incessant industry, of
intense piety, and unlimited self-confidence; and thus, with¬
out hesitation, he set himself to extirpate witchcraft, shrink¬
ing from no atrocity, until the frightful Salem tragedy of
1692 shocked the colony into mercy and common sense.
tf Mather was just the sort of character to be impressed
with Timoni’s description of the short and easy way with
small-pox; and he who had hanged warlocks and witches
with sublime assurance, was not likely to have scruples
about inoculating the community when inwardly satisfied it
was for the public good.”
Mr. White, who has seen much of the Salem Chapel kind
of people, and knows something of the narrow-minded
tyranny of their petty organisations, adds :—et The audacity
and tyranny of conscientious conceit are proverbial,” and
states that the zealous Cotton Mather had to wait before he
Could inoculate anybody. After he had inoculated several,
he recorded some of the awkward results in the following
words:—
“ I cannot learn that one has died of it. Five or six have
died upon it, or after it) but from other diseases or accidents;
chiefly from having taken infection in the common way by
I inspiration before it could be given in the way of transplan¬
tation.”
Mr. Cotton Mather, F.R.S., who wrote as frequently ard
as learnedly about spiritual mediums or psychic sensitives as
Dr. Carpenter has done, also gave the public the following
interesting scientific information in The Philosophical Trans¬
actions of the Royal Society :—
11 Dr. Leigh, in his Natural History of Lancashire, counts
it an occurrence worth relating that there were some cats
known to catch the small-pox, and pass regularly through
the state of it, and then to die. We have had among us the
very same occurrence.
ff It was generally observed and complained that the
pigeon-houses of the City continued unfruitful, and the
pigeons did not hatch or lay as they used to do all the while
that the small-pox was in its epidemical progress ; and it is
very strongly affirmed that our dung-hill fowl felt much of
the like effect upon them.”
Mr. Tebb has been fined again, and again, and again for
the non-vaccination of his child, and three or four of the
St. Pancras Guardians are specially notorious for forcing on
the repeated prosecutions. Have any of those guardians
themselves not been vaccinated, and forgotten the cipcum-
stance in the excess of their medical zeal? If Mr. Tebb
could only have one of them ordered to be vaccinated, and if
by a happy coincidence of circumstances he should chance
to barely escape death from disease brought on by the opera-
| tion, it would be a capital advertisement for the anti-vac¬
cinators, and the over-authoritative persons who rule in
i every local “ westry ” would have a warning before their
| eyes of the bad effects of too much medical orthodoxy.
Since the foregoing has been in type, we Have heard that
| the prosecutions of Mr. Tebb for the non-vaccination of his
I child have ceased, by the non-appearance in Court of both
plaintiffs and defendant over the hearing of the thirtieth
j summons, and after Mr. Tebb had paid £200 in fines and
costs. The local newspaper is in a state of indignation,
raising the cry of one law for the rich and another for the
poor. Whether Mr. Tebb be right or wrong in his medical
j unorthodoxy, he at all events has been fighting for both
| rich and poor for freedom of action (not necessarily without
restriction) according to the dictates of conscience, over a
subject respecting which many honest and intelligent men
have differences of opinion based upon research.
IIhh§I
I THE INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUALISM IN HOLLAND
AND ELSEWHERE.
BY ▲. J. BIK.O.
A medium has developed at Amsterdam in a private
family. He obtains the playing of instruments and the
| usual physical phenomena in ordinary evening lamplight.
I The instruments lie on the floor under the table, all join
| hands, and answers are gitfen on the tambourine, or some of
| the instruments rise between the sitters, till they are over
I the table.
At Rotterdam they also now obtain interesting physical
| phenomena, which they will try to develop farther; the
| manifestations are obtained without a cabinet, and in the
| light, the desideratum of every Spiritualist. At the Hague,
j a few weeks ago, a small circle of young men from one of
| the academical preparatory colleges met to form a circle.
! They at once obtained such phenomena that they intend to
| carry out a system of permanent investigation. I give these
| examples to show my English brethren that the Dutch are
I not discouraged in the study, and appreciate the sympathy so
] often expressed in letters from so many earnest, true
| English Spiritualists.
Spiritualism is an interesting subject, but more difficult
182
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apeil 18, 1879,
to c7eaT. with than any other. It i£ the most weighty, but, I i
at the same time, the most dangerous study of all; and, j)
truly, not everyone calling himself a Spiritualist is a I j
Spiritualist. Let us confess that our cause has no greater 1 (
and more dangerous enemies than (1) the impostors, (2) j
the enthusiasts in our midst. The number of American |
exposures of late is really disgusting. Take, for instance, (
James, with a complete collection of Indian and other j
dresses and accessories to represent faces of old men and j
young girls hidden on his person. Spiritualists should inves- j
tigate in such a way that the conditions make these narratives j
impossible in future. Did the Fox girls lose their mediumship
by repeated testing at every seance ? No. Did the cele- j
brated Mrs. Hollis lose her wonderful power when she |
submitted with the utmost willingness to be tested time
after time by Dr. Wolfe, and many others, knowing that it i
was asked, not out of mistrust, but in the real and well- j |
understood interests of our cause \ Her power increased,
and the manifestations became stronger and more convincing j!
at every sitting. Did Miss Cook lose her power by sub- j j
mitting to the repeated tests of Mr. Crookes ? Not at all. j i
And Home ? The same. j i
But why accumulate such examples ? Spiritualists capable ||
of efficiently prosecuting their study can easily find a large | j
number of mediums who will submit to tests, real tests, as j
often as asked for, if applied with kindness, and those are j j
the pioneers of progress. But we know we have good and j j
true-hearted mediums with us. How good and true, indeed, ji
was the behaviour of Mrs. Simpson in America, who under- j j
took a journey to a sceptical newspaper editor with the j
express desire to be tested, and came out triumphant! So j
it seems the Spiritualists have it in their power to stamp j
out fraud, by discouraging the application of conditions j
which make it easy. j !
A few remarks as to the enthusiasts in Spiritualism; j
they, for the most part, are the cause of scientific men being | |
so reluctant to take the study in hand. You will easily !
recognise them. They speak of the “ Divine powers” of | j j
mediums; they fall down in ecstasy before every trance j j i
speaker, although he or she may occasionally utter the j |
greatest nonsense or scientific rubbish (as Professor Denton j j
pointed out lately) ; they indignantly refuse admittance to j j
their circles to honest investigators who want the real article, j j
and not the imitation, and constitute that body which j I
defends cheats with such explanations as 4‘the spirits I j
did it.” | |
Let us freely and honestly confess that the utmost care is j
necessary in order to investigate without danger. One j
cosmogony from the spirits contradicts flatly another, and j
decided proofs of spirit identity are very seldom obtained; j
and even honest and scientific trials to establish the identity j j
of “ spirits” manifesting in different places meets some- j j
times with complete failure; in short, we have so many ! j
things still to learn that we should act prudently and j
honestly. Spiritualism never can form a new religion; it j
ought to be considered a science highly interesting but j
difficult, and to be kept pure. I
 - i j
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA AND |
DIVINATION. | |
BT ELIZA. BOUCHEB. j !
The widespread belief that certain individuals of our j
race have been and still are endowed with the gift of j
prophecy and the power of divination, has existed in all !
ages and among all “ sorts and conditions of men,” from j
the unlettered peasant to the philosopher, and from I j
Catherine de Medicis to the servant girl who invests her | j
last sixpence with the fortune-telling gipsy at the back | I
door. All adown the ages have existed professed prophets } i 1
and seers, from the “rapt Isaiah ” of the Hebrews and the j j
priestesses of Delphi, down to Zadkiel, Lilly, Mother | ]' I
Shipton, and their humbler followers of the present day. j [ I
Some years since I had heard of the fame of an astrologer ! I
in this neighbourhood, but had never been able to meet j
with any trustworthy information respecting his powers. I |
However, I at last happened to meet with a recent convert j I
to Spiritualism who, in his younger days, had chanced, |I
with a companion, to have consulted this astrologer, and [!
he thus described the interview they had with him;—
On entering the room the seer mounted a sort of pulpit,
or reading desk, and my friend began to ask questions.
“ Wait a moment,” replied the former, “ I’ll tell you
something about the past; you will then be able to form an
opinion as to my capabilities for foretelling the future. In
such a year you met with an accident.” “ What kind
of an accident ? ” questioned my friend. “ An accident to
limb,” was the reply. He was correct. In that very year
the querent had lost a finger. Turning to the gentleman
who accompanied my friend, he warned him against “ going
north.” The advice was disregarded; the young man
went north, and was ruined.
The Hon. Grantley Berkeley, from whom I have so
largely quoted, casually mentions a non-professional
astrologer named Yarley, who attended his sister as a pro¬
fessor of drawing. He forewarned some gentleman that
on a particular day he would meet with an accident. The
gentleman, to avoid the fulfilment of the prophecy, re¬
mained in bed until evening; thinking all danger over he
then came downstairs, but the Fates seemed too strong for
him, for he accidently fell over a coal-scuttle, severely
spraining his ancle. The above facts are simply valuable
on account of the trustworthiness of the witnesses to their
truth.
An immense number of similar narratives must be col¬
lected before any theory can be founded upon them; and I
cannot help expressing my satisfaction that so able a man
(judging from his writings) as Mr. Massey has commenced
the study of astrology with a sincere desire simply to test
its truth or falsehood, and I earnestly hope that all who
forward him data will abstain from anything so unfair as
an endeavour to trick or test his capabilities—remembering
that he only assumes the character of a student, not an
expert, and that he is working for the good of all.
I now proceed to give your readers two strange cases of
prevision. The first I met with in the life of the Rev. J.
Russell, which came out in Bailley's Sporting Magazine for
1877 or 1878. The kindhearted and jovial subject of the
memoir, who is still living, has been during his life a
great friend and patron of that interesting race, the
gipsies, whose gratitude towards him was unbounded.
When the old gipsy king died, “ Parson Jack,” as he was
affectionately and familiarly termed, was requested to
perform the service at his burial; he consented to do so,
on condition that the camp, after the ceremony, did not
(as he considered) break the Sabbath by removing from
the locality on the Sunday. They promised compliance,
and the remains of their king were decently laid to rest
beneath the green sod of the churchyard. The next morn¬
ing, however, Mr. Russell found that his wandering friends
had broken their word, so, riding up to the camp, which
was again pitched at some distance, he mildly upbraided
them with their breach of faith. The explanation given
was, that they had been driven to this act of apparent
faithlessness by the threats of some farmer of the neigh¬
bourhood. Whilst this conversation was being carried on,
a handsome young gipsy woman, apparently in perfect
health, came up and accosted the clergyman in these
words, “ Good morning, Mr. Russell. The next you bury
will be myself! ” The young prophetess was correct. On
the following or second Sunday (I have not the magazine
by me to refer to) he was again called upon to repeat the
hopeful words of the Burial Service over the grave of the
old king’s daughter, the same fair young Ishmaelite whose
strange words had arrested his attention at the entrance
of the tent only a few days previously. No wonder the
reverend gentleman from that time inclined to a belief in
the occult power of the gipsy tribe.
The second narrative of prevision or. foreboding is still
more remarkable. I found it, as I have so many other
interesting accounts of strange phenomena, in Grantley
Berkeley’s Life and Recollections. Having the volume by
me, I copy it verbatim:—
“ A labouring man on a farm not far from Ashdown-park,
one day was ordered by his master to dig some potatoes in
the garden, where there was a hive of bees. He went to
work, but ere he had been long occupied, a bee flew angrily
at him and stung him on the back of the neck. The man
raised his hand to rub the part, but in an instant found
April 18, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
188
himself with scarcely strength enough to crawl to the farm
and to his fellow servants, when he sank senseless into a
chair. The nearest surgeon was sent for, and by the admi¬
nistration of brandy the patient recovered. The crop of
the year was then lifted. Autumn and winter passed,
spring and summer succeeded, and autumn came again ;
the haulm of the potato crop had died, and once more in
that identical garden, and in the presence of the same hive,
the same labourer received an order to raise a crop of the
then present season. Under an unaccountable sensation
of depression and dread, yet reluctant to tell his master
that he would disobey him, the labourer went to his fellow
servants and declared that into that garden to dig potatoes
he could not and would not go, for, if he did, * that bee
would be sure to come out and kill him.’ They laughed at
his fears, and set before him what they termed his folly in
risking by his disobedience a good place under a kind
master on so childish a superstition. He hesitated, but at
length yielded to their advice; but with an immense effort
to overcome his dread, left the kitchen, and, taking up a
prong, set to work to fulfil his master’s orders. Scarce
thrice had the prong pierced the covering ridge and dis¬
closed the harvest that clustered beneath, than a bee, or
* that bee,’ did come forth, and again in the same spot on
the neck the man was stung. Once more he tottered to
the kitchen and fell insensible into the same chair. The
same medical advice was at once sent for, but this time the
surgeon was not at home. The people at the farm lost
their presence of mind, and did not administer brandy, or
there was none at hand. The consequence was, the poor
fellow’s forebodings were realized. He then and there died
from the sting of the insect.”
Albion-villa, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
«THROUGH THE GRAVE AND GATE OF DEATH.”
BY J. A. CAMPBELL.
What the wond’roua story 1 what the tale of
glory 1
Echoing through the earth;
Sweet flowers with gentle breath,
Mighty mountains thundering,
Tell me 1 waiting, wondering—
In harmony replying
A death and yet a birth:
//in conquered death by dying,
Our King has conquered death!
Tearful mother, keeping watch o’er your baby
sleeping.
Hushed all it’s laughing mirth
Drawn it’s last tiny breath ;
With long and bitter aching,
Thy heart seems near to breaking.
There comes a soft replying—
Not death, but only birth:
He conquered death by dying,
Our King has conquered death!
Martyr in prison cell, he wished his country
well,
In time of want and dearth,
“ By patience, friends,’’ he saith;
They would not hear him speaking,
Each bent on his self-seeking.
A nation is replying:
His death has been our birth :
He conquered death by dying,
Our King has conquered death !
Teacher so worn and weakly, treading the hard
earth meekly,
What was thy teaching worth 1
Ending in shameful death :
Teacher of gain through loss,
It finished in the cross !
But angels are replying:
Nay, was it not a birth ?
He conquered death by dying,
Our King has conquered death !
;:) I
! ( i
) 1
)■!
hi
!
i
i f
h>
>
A WELSH GHOST STORY.
A strange ghost story (says the Birmingham Gazette)
comes from the Principality. There is a friendly society
at Pontardawe, in the Swansea Yalley, among whose rules
is one that the funeral allowance on account of a deceased
member shall not be paid in cases of suicide. One of the
members recently died by his own hand, and the club
accordingly refused to pay the death money. For this
reasonable and just refusal the members are now complain¬
ing that they are subjected to serious persecution from an
unseen and, presumably, a ghostly agent. The manifesta- .
tions began on a recent Sunday, when one of the officers,
returning home over a lonely road, was assailed, as he
asserts, by the spirit of the late member, who, failing to
obtain a satisfactory reply to his demand for the money,
in a somewhat unspiritlike manner assailed the unfortunate
man, and actually “ tore his clothes to ribbons.” Such, at
least, was the account he gave, in tones of horror, at the
first public-house he came to after this terrific encounter.
But the ghost does not appear to have been satisfied with
this demonstration. On the following Tuesday evening,
whilst the members were assembled in the lodge room, the
usual knocks were heard at the door as of a brother seeking
admittance. The door was opened, but no one was to be
seen. The members, however, are all very certain that
they heard the voice of the deceased utter the words: “ Pay
my widow my funeral money, and then I shall be at rest.”
The meeting precipitately broke up, and the members are
now puzzled to know what to do with such a determined
deceased brother.
There may possibly be more foundation for the above
narrative than jocular newspaper remarks would imply.
In some recent spiritual outbreaks at Cookstown, near
Belfast, the clothes of a boy were often torn into ribbons
by an unseen power before the eyes of the spectators. Mr.
Capron’s book on Spiritualism: its Facts and Fanaticismsy
details somewhat similar incidents in the family of the Rev.
Dr. Phelps, and men who have died a violent death are
best able to produce strong physical manifestations after*
wards.
SEANCES IN GLASGOW.
(To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”)
Sir,—Mrs. Mellon, physical and trance medium, of
Newcastle-on-Tyne, has been on a visit to Glasgow for about
a week, during which time she has given several “ Materiali¬
sation or form seances.” I attended two, and must say for
myself I have no doubt of her medial powers, leaving to
others to assent or dissent to this statement, just as it may
please them. The first seance I attended was on Saturday
evening, at the Spiritualists’ Association Rooms, 164, Tron*
gate. It commenced promptly at eight o’clock. The twenty
| sitters were arranged in a semi-circle in front of the cabinet,
I which* was formed of a pair of large tapestry curtains
| suspended to a line, which ran across a corner of the room ;
I thus two sides of the triangular cabinet were formed of solid
| masonry, and the third, of the tapestry curtains already
j mentioned. The cabinet was without platform, and its floor
j the floor of the stance room. The seance room is in the
fifth story, and is inaccessible from the outside, except from
the top of the building, or else up a very long ladder. To
| give you a faint idea of how long, the room is only “ ten
] stair up,” as everybody ((kens” who had to do the climbing,
j Of course the cabinet was fully examined by the visitors,
and the medium herself came in for very close scrutiny. It
was understood that Mrs. Mellon was quite willing to sit under
test conditions or not, just as the sitters might wish—a fair
proposition. I signified my intention to thoroughly secure
| the medium in such a manner as to eradicate any dangerous
symptoms of Bishopphobia, should any appear in the visitors,
] or patient expectants. A gentleman proposed a vote of con¬
fidence in the medium, that no tests should be required,
j that the medium should go into the cabinet, and that the
sitters should use their own judgment concerning the mani-
j festations, should any occur. This was seconded and heartily
agreed to. Mrs. Mellon passed into the cabinet, the lights
I were lowered and finally put out except one, and that was a
! prepared one, which gave a sort of scientific, dim, religious Ight
Apeil 18, 187P
184 THE S FIB
of violet hue over the now expectant and hushed visitors, j
Manifestations took place in the following order, the light I
being sufficiently good to let me see my watch:—
8.5. Medium in cabinet.
8.6. Baps were heard, alphabet asked for, singing |
demanded.
8.10. All present were engaged in singing <( Shall we j
gather at the river.”
8.13. Singing interrupted by a movement of the curtains ; |
they open at the centre; a something white darts out and in |
two or three times, and then disappears ; on its reappearing |
we observed it to be a head, evidently a human head, draped I
a la Turk, and with something like a beard on its chin ; the j
head opened its mouth and spoke to us in “ braw Scotch,” j
and hoped that we *£ were a’ vera weel,”to which there was !
a general chorus of £< yesthe head seemed grateful, nodded j
and bobbed, then disappeared.
8.23. The medium was heard sobbing, or making that
peculiar sound which seems to be the invariable prelude to a
sensitive passing into the trance condition; presently a voice
was heard, which the initiated at once recognised
as (< Cissey,” a little negro girl who controls the medium.
“ Oissey” addressed several persons by name, individuals
whom she had known before at former sittings, or else who i
were known to the medium. She (the control) announced I
that the conditions were not very harmonious, or she and IJ
(< Geordie ” would try and appear at the same time ; should | ]
they fail or “ use up the power ” in the attempt, they would j i
try again next morning, when she hoped the conditions | j
would be better. In the meantime she would do all she
could to “ slatify the folkses.”
8.30. The medium’s voice was heard describing the making IJ
up of the little psyche, who had just controlled. While IJ
the medium was speaking inside the cabinet a small figure \
draped in white appeared at the opening; it was about j |
three feet high, and bowed several times in reply to some j |
questions that were put to her by persons she seemed to 11
recognise amongst the sitters. The mannikin then withdrew ;!
within the curtains.
8.45. Baps were heard asking for more singing; the Cl Old 11
Hundredth” was forthwith immediately launched to the j
usual doleful and unhappy tune.
8.55. The head of the “departed Scotchman,” whom I
have now learned is “ Geordie,” reappeared, this time j j
accompanied with more shoulder, confidence, and voice. He I
“ cracked ” rather freely in the “ barbaric dialect of the j i
dwellers on the banks of the Clyde,” and signified his inten- !
tion to stand out amongst us, which he did. The outline of !
his figure was like that of a woman. He seemed to discard j
those vulgar unmentionables generally worn by men; his j
limbs were undraped, but by nature adorned, showing his j
understanding to be substantial enough, although not !
exactly of that configuration we would expect in an Apollo j
Belvedere. He (Geordie) invited a young lady to come to |
him. The invitation was accepted; he examined a locket 11
which was suspended to a chain that hung around her neck; |
he looked admiringly into her face, and then implanted a ! j
rather percussive kiss upon her cheek. “ Geordie ” then gal¬
lantly conducted the object of his attentions to her seat in ! J
the front row of sitters.
At the conclusion of the stance, I ventured to ask j i
Miss   some questions as to the appearance of the face j I j
and form of “ Geordie ” when seen, as in her case, in such j
close proximity. In reply, Miss observed, “ The face I
was that of an old man, deeply wrinkled or furrowed; the | j
skin was of that peculiar yellow which frequently accom- ! !
panics biliousness ; large, heavy, dark eyebrows, and beard of
the same colour.” I asked her if the kiss were that of a man | |
or a woman, to which she naively replied, “ Hot having had j I
any experience, I cannot say.” I ceased to ££ interview” j |
her. “ Geordie,” after cutting some capers, retired. We I |
continued ££ to sit and sing ourselves away ”—not to ££ ever- j !
lasting bliss ”—but for ten minutes longer, when we heard j I
raps to the effect the££ power was exhausted,” and the seance, \ |
which had been an hour and a half in duration, was brought | I
to a conclusion. J j
On Sunday morning, at 11.15, the seance room was filled j |
with the old habitubs of the Sunday morning circle : there j j
were only three strangers present. The ££ conditions ” were 111
[TUALIST.
I evidently better, as manifested in the good spirits and faith
I of those present, and both seemed equal to all the demands
I that should be made upon them by spirits seen or unseen.
! By tacit consent all the visitors were willing to abide by
I such ££ conditions ” as should be laid down by the ££ con-
I trols ” of the medium, and, in the words of the conductor of
I the seance, ££ take what came.” The circle being arranged,
I the medium entered the cabinet at 11.30. The lights were a
! little higher than on the previous night, and the stance-
i lamp, with its ££ weird and holy light,” was at my back. It
| shone over my head directly upon the curtain forming the
| front of the cabinet, more especially upon the opening. The
| controls are to endeavour to produce two forms, therefore we
| are all attention.
11.31. The medium has scarcely been seated inside the
cabinet when a form appears at the opening, solemnly bows,
and disappears; we are informed it is the daughter of a
gentleman present, not recognised.
11.40. The head bobs out and in, as if testing its ability
to stand the extra light. It seems satisfied. Then we see
the head and bust of an appearance “ like unto that of a
man,” but, mystery of mysteries, without any legs or visible
support. He (the head-££ Geordie ”) becomes at once at
home with his auditory, speaking in a clear and happy
! manner to all. To the question, “ Where are your legs ? ”
I he answers that he?s ££ no made them up.” He talks about
| his experiences in and out of the mortal coil, ‘£ at home and
I abroad,” and chatted about his experiences in spirit-life. To my
mind his observations were more like speculations than a de¬
scription of reality. Materialistion phenomena are so stupen¬
dous, that we can afford to wait for more thorough information
concerning those eternal realities, or that liffi beyond the
horizon of our physical vision than these objective beings
seem able to convey to us. As it is, we sed indications of a
law, not yet fully understood, by which the mentality of the
££ forms ” is bounded by the intellectual and ability of the
sensitive in whose presence they are able to manifest. In
saying this, I have no wish to disparage the remarks
£‘ Geordie” made during his remarkable stay in our midst,
but rather to point out ‘£ a truth or fact connected with this
form of manifestation.”
12.5. “Geordie” retired into the cabinet, and at 12.8 came
out boldly into the centre of the circle, but this time not
“ half made up,” but in full form. He is, I judge, a head
taller than the medium. He is happy—quite at home ; he
comes within two feet of me, and attempts to play the
piano; his essay at “ calming the savage breast” is a failure,
noise, not music, being the result. He rejoices, however, in
the attempt. He is now standing in front of the piano,
and looking steadily in my face ; his features are mobile and
natural; he looks a very solid ghost; his face wears a playf ul
smile ; his skin seems a little pinched and wrinkled for an
old man some seventy years in the “ I^and of Nod.” He
has an excellent set of teeth, evidently not supplied recently
by a dentist; his heavy eyebrows somewhat shade the clear
piercing eyes underneath; he has a large dark beard.
“ Geordie” cuts some merry antics, and explained that he
had been an athlete and clown in earth-life. He is
reminded it is Sunday morning; he jokingly replies
that he will endeavour to be “mair circumspect” out
of deference to “ the hypocrisy of the age.” Ho then
advises a lady to “get to a nunnery;” and as the lady is the
least likely of any present to take such a step, the joke is
thoroughly appreciated. I might state that before “ Geordie ”
perpetrated this joke he had been giving us a reading from
the ghost scene in Hamlet. Geordie retired: shortly after¬
wards another figure appeared, dressed as a bride adorned
for her wedding ; her face looked as if chiselled out of purest
marble; she did not speak, but moved her arms and put
back the curtains, as if to give us a full view of her form.
Her name was “ Jessie,” the unrecognised person who came
out at the beginning of the stance. While this figure was
standing in the front of the cabinet the curtains were much
shaken behind her, and “ Cissey,” the little negro control of
the medium, suddenly appeared at that portion of the cabinet
farthest from where I sat, and was fully recognised by those
sitters nearest her. With the exception of two or three per¬
sons close to me, the two living figures or beings were seen
by those present at the same time. I only saw something
April 18, 1879.
185
THE SPIRITUALIST.
white where the second figure was said to be. “ Jessie ”
retired, and a voice claiming to be <£ Cissey’s ” announced
“ dat she was tumming ;M immediately a little figure, about
three feet high, appeared at the opening. The negro features
were quite marked and distinct; she stepped out to a chair
placed about two feet from the opening of the cabinet,
dragged it back to the cabinet, answered a few questions by
raps, and retired. Raps .came to “ light up,” and the seance
was then brought to a close. The conclusion I have arrived
at is—in the words of an Irish friend of mine, no doubt a
descendant of Socrates—“ What I know is very little, but
what I don’t know is immense.” J. Coates.
Edinburgh.
OPENING SERVICES AT STEINWAY HALL.
This elegant hall was opened to the public for 'a lecture on
“ Spiritualism” on Sunday, April 6tb, and a large audience assembled
to listen to Mr. J. William Fletcher’s opening address. These addresses
will be continued at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-street, every
Sunday evening until further notice. Last Sunday, after the usual
services, Mr. Fletcher gave an address, of which the following is a
brief sketch. He entitled it<( The Origin and Destiny of Spiritualism.”
As we witness the manifestation of power and force which are so
varied and wonderful in the world about us, and as we see the varied
forms of life, each embodying within itself some distinctive purpose,
we are almost forced to question, “ Whence comes this power ? ” Has it
always existed ? Although the action of spirit is plainly demonstrated,
yet mankind, in general, are so ignorant of the law that they stand
before each recurring manifestations, vainly striving to solve the
vexed question, and, through their want of knowledge, allow the vast
resources of spirit to remain unemployed and unused, thereby
losing a strong lever to effect grand results. Whence the power of
spirit? We find that spirit began when God began, and dates its
birth from the beginning of time ; that which is called the Spiritualism
of the present day is only the action of the same spirit which we trace
through all ages of the past, varying in degree and power as the
development and unfoldment of the human race differs in the various
stages of the world’s history. In early times the power manifested
itself, and the people of that time saw the action of spirit in their very
midst: saw cities swept away, and nations overcome, and never
realised there was any purpose in it, or that they were witnessing the
demonstration of a truth which should some day revolutionise the
world. But they looked upon the facts in wonder, and never sought
the underlying lesson that these phenomena contained ; for there is ...
not a single event that makes up human life but has some intent, some j j |
purpose beneath it. Solomon never uttered a grander truth than when i | j
he said, “ There is no new thing under the sun.” There is more in the | (j
flower than the colour; there is more in the bird than its plumage ; j J i
there is more in the child than its form : there is the indwelling spirit | j!
endeavouring to manifest itself, and that which you perceive is but the | (j
outward expression of the power within ; and it is this action of spirit j | j
which in early times was called a miracle, because it seemed so far ] / i
away from any known law the people failed to comprehend it. It was (j
simply uncultivated soil, an unexplored country; it might be called j j
Force, without an intelligence to direct its proper use.
The first great spiritual manifestation we find is evidenced (j
in the life of Jesus; through all the ages before His birth >i
the possibilities of the spirit existed the same, but never until His eyes j j
opened upon the world was a purpose so clearly manifested. And (j
when you look back and think of those wise men whose hearts had 5 j
been moved by the prophecy given them, who believed and trusted in j j
the coming of the Messiah, who journeyed on, with only one thought (|
and one faith, what a lesson of humility aud trust it should teach us ! )\
What unseen spirits must have guided their thoughts and quickened j j |
their hearts with courage and faith 1 What loving hands must have | > j
guided their footsteps lest they should stumble and fall, while they, ) j
with Godlike faith, waited through the long weary hours of the night (
for the rising of the star, and when at last the world was filled with its >
holy light, with what delight they rushed forward to carry the glad )
tidings of a Saviour’s birth, and to bear their offering of peace and love \ j
aud lay it at the feet of the Holy One ! They found the Messiah, the i ? |
long looked-for Messenger from on high, but a sleeping child in his i ) i
mother’s arms, a fresh, sweet bud on the tree of life. i j s
Think you that the little infant, even in those early days, caught no | [ i
shadow of the coming time ? that the vision of Calvary, the weary j | j
night in Gethsemane, and the horrors which followed, made no impres- | ( !
sion upon the infant Jesus ? Yes, even in fancy, the shadows of the i > j
coming future were already falling around His young life, and as years i j i
roll on He becomes wholly mastered by the demand of the time, and (j
through His life the light of Divine truth was thrown. From the hour j / j
of His birth to the hour of His death, He was the embodiment of the j j j
great power of the spirit-world, which dates itself back to the beginning 1 j j
of all things, co-existent with God Himself. We find the early mani- j) j
festations of spirit-power teaching no lesson, suggesting no truth, and, i J i
therefore, ending where they began; on the other hand, in the life of j) i
Jesus there was a complete embodiment of spiritual intelligence ; it was j (|
the power of God revealing itself to the world, and unto mankind. |(j
Still further on we find the power of the spirit embodied in the lives of j |;
two little children, and never since He of old confounded the wise men j j!
in the temple, has there been such a visitation from the spirit-world as \{\
came of late to those little girls far away at Hydesville. It was no * ’;
stately palace, no grand cathedral, but a simple cottage home, contain¬
ing a quiet family, unto which the Spirit of the Lord had come. It
was no palace, no cathedral, but only a manger in which a Saviour
was cradled.
| When the question was first asked, “ Where are those whom I love
| better than my life ?” echo only answered, “ Where ?’’ But the voice
of the spirit, through inspired lips, tells you, “They are not lost, but
i gone before, and that they wait your coming over yonder.”
| Spiritualism dates from the oeginning of time, and has manifested
| itself among all classes of people and all races of men. It is not ancient
I; or modern Spiritualism we are gathered together to celebrate, but an
influx of power from God which adapts itself to our every demand. It
i is the hand that has ever been beckoning mankind up the heights of
| time ; it is the voice crying out in the night, “ Come up hither.” Is
i there any good that Spiritualism can do ? is there a lesson it can teach ?
A great many people will tell you they believe in Spiritualism; but
| you ask them what they mean by Spiritualism, and they will tell you
| that they have seen a table dance, heard a rap, seen a spiritual form
flash before their vision for a moment, or received a communication
i from their friends. They believed in Spiritualism. A person might be
and do all this, and yet be miles away from Spiritualism. It is not
j enough that you witness and realise certain effects which may occur.
They of themselves are as nothing, unless they lead to a higher result
| —unless you are inspired to live a truer and holier life. If Spiritualism
| only presents phenomena, which tickles the fancy for a time, it has
failed to accomplish its mission in &he world. Unless Spiritualism stirs
j your heart as it was never stirred before; unless it brings to you
i grander impulses and higher aspirations, a broader charity and a diviner
I thought, you have not understood its true import. Neither man nor
woman can, in the light of Spiritualism, harbour an unkind thought to-
( wards any person living; and it is not for you to say, “ That is all very
j well, but it is not my Spiritualism.” When, you have true Spiritualism in
| your hearts, the discords and contentions which now disgrace our causa
! will have been blotted out for ever; you will love each for the possi-
j bilities which God has given. The great object of Spiritualism is to har¬
monise the whole world. Jesus said, “I come not to bring peace but a
| sword;” and truth is ever a sword in the side of error, which, sooner
pr later, will let out the evil nature which retards our progress. So, for
! a time, Spiritualism may bring seeming discord through divergence of
opinion; but as its only aim is toward the truth, the ultimate condition
must be peace and harmony. Spiritualism is the hand that tears down
the curtain, and leaves each to stand upon his own manhood, calling
upon you all to act upon the dictates of your own hearts, and not to be
governed by what society may say or sages teach. The destiny of
Spiritualism is to teach men and women to be themselves, so thoroughly
that they always have a reason for what they do, and are prepared to
meet the consequences. If men and women are governed by honest
motives they have nothing to fear. We find science and religion
crossing swords; science telling you that religion is foolishness
—religion exhorting you to beware of the snares and wiles of
science. And yet each is endeavouring to make the world better, and it
is the destiny of Spiritualism to unite and harmonise one with the
other. Science is only one avenue toward Truth’s mighty temple:
each truth gained, no matter in what way, is added to the grand totsl
for general acceptance ; it is a very mistaken idea that we can get too
much truth and knowledge. The only freedom we can truly enjoy
comes through the truth. “ The truth shall make you free.” Yet
there are many who find error so easy that they say, “ I believed
just as my father believed before me; it was good enough for him, it
is good enough for me.” But are you prepared to say that you will do
as your father did in everything else ? Has the present generation
done nothing for you ? It has brought us many inventions and
improvements, and, as the mind is now more fully developed, a clear' r
understanding of the powers around us. There is a grander develop¬
ment of truth than your fathers could understand, and you are call* d
upon to live a better life than even your fathers did. When we are
next told that science is the enemy of religion, we reply that science
and religion are twin ’sisters, children of a common parent, and that
he who ranges one against the other has quite mistaken the import
and value of each.
There is one evil blacker than all else, which broods over the people;
a sin so fearful that it takes the heart-blood of the strongest and best,
and casts its long dark shadow over many happy homes, while ruin
and desolation follow in its train. Everywhere it is welcomed, every¬
where it is courted, and everywhere it is the viper that brings discord
to every threshold it crosses—and that sin is slander.l He who slanders
is worse than he who murders, for he takes the dearest prize of all—
imputation and good name. The time will come (God hasten the day)
when the true Spiritualist would no sooner think of uttering a word of
slander than of taking his own life. Join your hands together, aud
register a vow never to speak of another save in kindness and charity.
What is the destiny of Spiritualism ? It is to bring each human soul
to the light of God’s love, to help each heart to say, “Our Father.”
and realise that He is the Father of the highest and lowest alike. To
gather all the nations of the earth together, one government on earth,
as in heaven. Then we feel that we shall all have a part in whatever
of joy or sorrow there may be in the world. From out the host the
cry comes, “ What shall I do to be saved?” “Be thyself, live out
the conditions of the life,” is the answer wafted down from the
spheres. “Peace and goodwill towards men,” sang the angels.
“ Peace can never come till Justice is done,” saith the oracle. “ Do
unto others as you would be done by,” saith the ancient teacher. “ Do
right, whether it is as you would be done by or not,” saith the voice of
the spirit. “ Conquer self, and thou shalt rise above all things.” The
blessed spirits tell you that you hold the future in your own hands ;
that the Spiritualism shall be just what you make it. There is One in
the world, a bright-faced child, who shall bring glad tidings from trn
186
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 18, 1879,
world of the Unknown. Lo! the Comforter has come, and is in your )]
midst, and you know it not. Ere long His voice will be heard, and j j
His power felt. Live truly, so that when the day and hour come for j j
His presence to be made known, you may be deemed worthy to work j i
with Him. j j
After the lecture several tests of spirit-identity were given to i j j
entire strangers, and were recognised to be correct in every particular, j j!
THE LATE M. PIERART. ] j
ST P. CLAVAIROZ, CONSUL-GENERAL OF FRANCE AT TRIESTE. j ( j
The valiant, champion whose last work, The Primitive j j |
World, I noticed a short time ago, has been struck down by j
death. It was, alas, so to speak, the last flame bursting j I
forth from the soul of this apostle. He corrected the proofs j j j
upon his bed of suffering, where my hand pressed his. j |
M. Pierart succumbed to the malady with which he had been j |
afflicted for several months, but of which he had hoped to be j.j
cured. The cause of Spiritualism has suffered a great loss ; } j
but God raises up messengers as it pleases Him, and takes j j
them away when He considers their mission accomplished, j i
Progress is not arrested because a combatant falls in the | I
strife. Others, as yet unknown, perhaps, will seize the I I
weapon fallen from his hand, and the work will go on under i
the controlling eye of Providence, whose ways are inscrutable I
to man. Without being in any way discouraged in our j
aspirations, our regrets follow beyond the grave those whom i j
we have known and loved, and whose courage has sustained j
us in our efforts in the struggle. He whom we have just lost is j
stamped with the seal of brave soldiers of the truth. Born in 11 i
a humble condition, he valiantly made himself what he i
afterwards became. His parents were honest cultivators of |
Doulers, and M. Pierart received his first education at the j|
College of Avanes; he afterwards entered the grammar j
school of Douai, which he quitted with the diploma of j
teacher; he at first occupied himself as instructor at La j j
Bassie, and subsequently became professor at the College of | I
Maubenge. ■ While there he was chosen by Baron du Potet j j
to be his secretary, and they worked together several years, j j
In 1858 he founded La Revue Spiritualiste, at which time it j
required courage to propagate the new facts which had opened ! j
up an unknown field for speculation concerning the soul. His | j
magazine reported the psychological phenomena which began, j I
in the first instance, in America, and it was continued by j j
M. Pierart until he substituted for it the Concile de la J j
Libre Pensee, which was stopped in 1873, in consequence of | j
clerical influence. Afterwards he resumed his spiritual j |
labours by publishing the Benedictin de St. Maur, which he j j
continued until the last. It is not only in thei investigation j j
and treatment of spiritual phenomena that M. Pierart j j
has shown the power of his ardent soul, which was so capti- ] !
vated by all that is great and generous, for he published a j
great number of historical works. No labour was too great ! I
for him when what seemed doubtful required investigation, Jj.
and no consideration ever caused him to hesitate to divulge j I
what he considered to be true. An indefatigable worker and j J
careful investigator, history and archaeology attracted him as j I
much as mesmerism and the occult sciences. He penetrated j j
the arcana of Druidism, and studied the origin of the most | j
ancient religions. His style—always precise, clear, and j |
enlightened by a kind of clairvoyance—gave to his words a j I
real authority. No one had more knowledge than he of the j i
deep mysteries of the past, and death came upon him just I |
as he was preparing to publish the result of his investiga- I |
tions. M. Pierart has for twenty years fought for the cause j I
of Spiritualism, loved by all who knew him, and appre- | I
dated by all who read him. His death will leave a great [ j
gap, and the work he has left undone will be difficult for | |
another to accomplish. His faith supported him in his J
earthly struggle against poverty, and the deceptions, and ] I
67en the secret persecutions by which he was beset. He j j
was preparing to crown his efforts by founding a society j J j
where disciples of the spiritual philosophy might work j) j
together for the propagation of truth. It was a holy idea j [ j
of his; let us hope that another apostle will carry it out. j|
As for Spiritualists, who know that death is only a trans- j
formation, we believe that Pierart’s soul will be with us j[j
and continue to interest itself in a cause which so occupied j j
him during his earthly sojourn, and that if it be possible jjij
for him to do so, he will impress his thoughts on minds that
believe in the communion which unites spirits and mortals
in a religion of love.
AN “ABSOLUTE TEST” MATERIALISATION SEANCE.
BY CHARLES BLACKBURN.
In most of my letters to you I have advocated the
adoption of two classes of stances, viz., the dark ones, in
which tables, chairs, guitars, musical boxes, handbells, and
other articles are knocked about; also spirit hands produced.
This class is most convincing to the inexperienced, and to
those scientists who declare such things to be impossible
except by trickery. A few seances of this kind have the
tendency to awaken the mind to belief in the reality of some
new power or force, because any of the sitters can hold both
hands of the medium, and make sure she or he does nothing
whatever. Thus he becomes prepared for a much higher
phase, viz., that of seeing a “ materialisation ” seance, in
which a little light is admitted, sufficient to enable the
sitters to see each other in the room, distinctly; and it is
necessary to observe certain conditions, or we cannot get a
materialisation at all. In America and other places many
impostors have been before the public, imitating and
personating materialised spirits, and it has cost me long
investigation and care to arrange that my medium, Miss
Cook, should be kept away from doubtful mediums and other
influences which might be detrimental to her development,
so that good spirits alone would attend her ; and I think now
that is established.
My last stance for materialisation was with Miss Cook,
on 81st March, at No. 4, Bloomsbury-place, London,
in the presence of six witnesses whose names are below,
and who can be seen and interrogated by the Press, or
scientific men or sceptics, any day. I arranged for the
medium to give me a test stance in a house she had never sat
in before; nor did the undersigned, Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher,
previously know I intended calling to bid them good¬
bye. We found that some friends had just called on them,
but they kindly assisted at forming a cabinet in a corner of
the drawing-room with two crimson curtains on a string,
and we lowered the gas so that we could all see each other
well; then placed a low chair inside the curtains, and the
medium took off her hat and jacket. She had on a
tight-fitting black silk dress, and she placed herself in
the low chair, whilst we six sat in a half-circle around
the drawn curtains. Mr. Fletcher sat at the left-
hand corner of the cabinet curtains, whilst I sat at
the right. In three minutes Lillie, the spirit, all
in white raiment, visible to all, appeared, opening the two
curtains. I said, “ How quickly you have come.” She
riplied, “Yes, I’ve been waiting, and shall only give you a
short test stance." I replied, “ Well, then, come to my
corner.” She came, and then took my two hands with her
two warm hands, and said, “What test would you like ?”
(Observe, her face was no mask, but flexible, living features,
and as solid as any human being’s.) I replied, “ I should
like you to allow Mrs. Fletcher to go inside whilst I hold
you here, and let her feel if the medium be seated in her
chair.” She replied, “ Yes, she can go.” Now, Mrs.
Fletcher instantly went inside and said aloud, “The
medium is in her chair, and I have my hand now on her
head.” Mrs. Fletcher came to her seat, and Lillie quickly
said to me, “ You have had hold of me all the time. Are
you satisfied ? ” I said, “ Most certainly; but allow me
to vary it a little by my taking Mrs. Fletcher’s place and
she taking mine.” She said, “You can do so.” We
changed places, and I saw Mrs. Fletcher holding both the
hands of the spirit and talking to it, whilst I put my left
arm behind the curtain and felt the medium’s warm head.
Then I got inside, and with my right hand I felt her face and
neck, and saw the spirit in white still held by and talking with
Mrs. Fletcher. My right hand at that moment was seized
violently and flung aside by the medium, who said, “ Don’t
touch me.” I retired to my seat, and Lillie said, “ Now I
must go, and I hope you are thoroughly satisfied?” I
replied, “Yes, it is a genuine materialisation.”
We slowly added more light, and the gentlemen entered
the cabinet, but found no spirit or white soft (jaconette)
187
April 18, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
drapery, only the medium in a drowsy state, in a black
dress, expressing the hope we had had a good siance.
/ Major-General Maclean, E.I.U.S., 14, St.
James’s-square, London.
General Rideout, New York, U-S.A.
Witnesses / Colonel Morton, Boston, U.S.A.
1 Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher, 4, Bloomsbury-
I place, London.
\ Charles Blackburn, Parkfield, Didsbury.
THE GRASP OF AN UNSEEN HAND.
BY E. FORTESCUE INGRAM, M.R.C.8.E.
Knowing well the interest which attaches to phenomena
occurring through the mediumship of the celebrated Katie
Fox, I think it but right that I should acquaint you with
the following remarkable phenomenon which took place the
other evening.
In order that you may properly understand, I must take
you back to a short time before Christmas, when one
Sunday evening, in my own room, Mrs. Jencken (Katie Fox)
kindly gave me a stance, and among other phenomena
which then took place, a piece of white card about the size
of an ordinary playing-card, previously marked at the
request of the invisibles themselves, disappeared suddenly
from the table on which it was placed, nor could any trace
of it be discovered after the sitting was over. From that
day till quite recently circumstances have arisen which
have prevented our having another seance, and the exist¬
ence of the card was almost forgotten.
On Wednesday evening, April 9, 1879, I called in the
evening to see Mr. and Mrs. Jencken, and was quietly
smoking a cigar and talking on a variety of subjects, when
the raps commenced loudly and forcibly. Through the
usual method of the alphabet we were requested to lower
the gas and sit at the table. Having done this, they re¬
quested us to place pen, ink, paper, and blotting-paper
under the table, which we accordingly did.
I will now describe the conditions under which we sat.
The room is a large one, with folding-doors dividing it. In
the one half were we, sitting at the table, with the gas
turned down, but with the fire burning cheerfully. The
folding-doors were open, and in the other half stood a
moderator lamp turned full on.
The table was an ordinary oval one. On my left sat
Mrs. Jencken, on my right Mr. Jencken, he and I still con¬
tinuing our conversation and cigars. At the request of the
spirits we all placed our elbows on the table, so that each
could see the other’s hands, which were not joined. After
sitting for a few minutes, we heard the scratching of the
pen and a noise as if some one were writing rapidly. I
was now told to place my hand under the table, which I
did without any handkerchief over it, and a hand as warm
and natural as any I ever clasped gave me not what I
expected—namely, a message written on the sheet of paper
we had placed there—but the identical piece of card, re¬
cognised by private marks corresponding with marks left
on the sheet from which it was cut, that had been taken
away some four months ago, and now returned closely
written over on both sides. During the whole time we sat,
twenty minutes perhaps, all elbows were on the table, and
all hands clearly visible by the light of the fire in this
room and of the lamp in the other. As the message was
of a private character, and as I fail to see any good that
would be done by publishing it, I forbear.
Chelsea Infirmary, April 15,1879.
‘‘WORDS MADE FLESH.”
BY J. A. CAMPBELL.
The Word, the Blessed Divine Reason, warmful and lightful;
embodied for us poor dwellers in & form world, in flesh, in stars, in
living gi’een of oak and daisy; or in the reflected images of such
things carven in marble instead of incarnated, and painted on canvas
instead of on ether, all of it is “Holy Scripture written for our
learning ” by the Mighty Artist, and by the little ones His sous, while
we still see “ through a glass darkly.”
Will those who consider as sacred the spoken, or painted, or written
word of man send us their own spirits (materialised in things
they have done themselves, or things which others have done, and
which they reverence) for the help of our Cambridge Society, pro¬
vided they are really interested in us or in our work—how bodied
forth I do not care, so that we may joy in the expression of some
reality? From pictures painted for the sake of “high art,” or books
or letters written for the sake of talking, we hope to be delivered;
but by the kind thought and true work of those who do not “possess
their life in vanity ” we desire to be vitalised and surrounded. Our
rooms are at No. 6, Market-street, Cambridge.
SPIRITUALIsSTli^EDINBURGH.
A small assemblage of persons interested in Spiritualism gathered
last night in the Upper Odd Fellows’ Hall, Forrest-road, to hear Mr.
J. J. Morse, London, who designates himself as an “inspirational
trance medium.” The meeting was conducted by Mr. James Coates, a
Glasgow Professor of Mesmerism, who explained at the outset, as did
also the medium himself at the close of the address, that Mr. Morse
professed to speak under the influence of a spirit who had guided him
for about ten years. The audience were requested to hand up to the
chairman, in writing, subjects on which it was proposed that the
medium should speak, and about thirteen such subjects were proposed.
The Chairman, assuming that the audience would wish to hear Mr.
Morse on subjects bearing upon Spiritualism rather than any others,
began by putting on one side topics not having such bearing. Ulti¬
mately the voice of the audience was expressed in favour of a subject
suggested by Dr. Bowie—namely, “ The Soul, in its Origin, Progress,
and Future Destiny.” The medium, who spoke throughout with his
eyes closed, addressed himself without hesitation to the theme thus
presented to him, and delivered to an appreciative audience, with much
fluency and elocutionary power and effect, an argument setting forth
Ihe Spiritualistic view of the origin, progress, and destiny of the soul.
Referring, in the first place, to what he described as the present contest-
to the death between the churches and the scientists on this question
of the human soul, he claimed that the modern Spiritualist was the
only person who had the courage or the effrontery, whichever it might
be, to say, “ I know that there is a soul, for I have held communion
with it.” Modem Spiritualism was the only principle which could
hold out a hand to reconcile the opposing parties. The churches sought
to explain the origin of the soul by a miracle without evidence, and the
scientist declined to accept that for which no evidence was adduced.
The Spiritualist supplied that which was wanting, and grounded his
belief in the soul and its immortality on evidence as well as argument.
He affirmed that along with, and side by side with, the physical de¬
velopment, there had been a spiritual development; and that, just as
in the beginning the elements of all existing forms of life were present,
so it followed that the essences that to-day influenced them were then
also present. The essence of all life was the Spirit of God working
through and by all forms of being—through an envelope of matter, if
they would. The order of evolution was from motion to form, from
form to sensation, from sensation to intelligence, and from intelligence
to spirituality. Then, as to the progress of the soul, it presented, in
this world, every possibility of advancement, and must finally, by its
innate nobility, subjugate every adverse circumstance. Its destiny,
fui ther, in the future, was a destiny of eternal progression for all. Dr.
Bowie, in thanking the medium for his address, said it was such as
went far to impress him that a great deal of what he had heard said
against Spiritualism was thoroughly untrue. There was not a professor
iu the University, in either divinity or arts, that would allow such an
assembly as that to select a subject such as that, and venture his
reputation in delivering an address upon it on the spur of the moment.
(Hear, hear.) He wished to explain that the lecturer was a total
stranger to him.—The Scotsman, April 10th.
©umBponimue.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]  
ERRATA.
Sir,—It distresses me greatly to be obliged to ask for corrections,
rendered necessary probably by my unreadable handwriting. Will
any one who thinks it worth while alter with their pen these things in
my little poem, printed in last Friday week’s Spiritualist ? In the first
verse the marks of quotation ought to be at either end of the third line,
whereas they stretch in the printed copy to the middle of the fourth ;
there is no s at the end of the word give in the second verse, and the
last is sheer nonsense, because my F’s and T’s are so much alike; a
good lesson for me. I wrote it thus :—
His stormy course and hers more calm, each life
A prelude to a higher, nobler chord,
Together now they rest from worldly strife
Each had a conflict-each has a reward.
Truly the day of judgment comes speedily for scribes when their work
passes through the press. A hopeful young poet had written this line
descriptive of the fate of a “ heretic ’’ whom he honoured,
“ See the pale martyr with his sheet of fire,”
and the line was printed thus—
“ See the pale martyr with his shirt on fre.”
There are troubles worse than mine, and I am beginning to write
slowly enough and roundly enough to enable me to defy legions of
printers’ devils. J. A. Campbell.
Mr. W. H. Terry, of Melbourne, writes that Dr. Slade is about to
leave Australia for New York, via San Francisco.
A member of the Theosophical Society asks us to state that on the
arrival of Col. Olcott and Madame Blavatsky in Bombay they received
a public reception from their friends there.
1S8
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aprie 18, 1879.
SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES IN THE HOME CIRCLE.* |
BT MOKBLI. THEOBALD. j j j
Exactly twelve months ago, by the courtesy of the Editor of the j i i
Christian World, I was writing a series of letters which were intended j, j
to establish the facts of Spiritualism, and in which I intended to trace i j
the growth or development of the phenomena from their alphabet, as
found in the first tiny rap or movement of a small table, to the full, free, j' j
and easy—I might almost add natural—communication between us and | j
the inhabitants of the spirit world by means of direct writing and viva \' j
voce conversation sustained by the hour together. My object was to do | i
so from experiences confined to the home circle, which, to my mind, are j j
more trustworthy than those derived from public mediumship. But, j |
alas! in medias res, my plans were snapped asunder, my purposes were j j
broken off by the stern intimation from the Editor, “ Here all communi- j J
cations must cease.” Why ? Were they flagging ? Did no interest |)
attach to the subject ?
Flagging! The trouble was he had so many communications that j j
he did not know which to choose for insertion, and he invented, to my | i
infinite disgust, a sort of summary or analysis of letters sent to him on j j
the subject. The summary read very much like an auctioneer’s list of j j
lot 1, lot 2 and 3, and so on. The soul was gone, for you felt that the I j j
facts were being handled by ignorant hands. (I use the word ignorant ; j
in no bad sense.)
But other reasons were at work: the very interest excited the animosity j (!
of those who should be the first to welcome spiritual truths from what- j | j
ever channel they come. Priest and prelate
With raving shrieked against the creed.
Scientists scoffed at the undignified exposition, although a few days I i |
before a learned F.R.S. had, like a bantam, shouted “ Cock-a-doodle- j) ]
doo” through the newly-discovered telephone in order to test its reality, j j j
I know which was the most undignified exposition, if the notion of j j
dignity is for a moment to be admitted into the research.
In a meeting of Spiritualists I need not be so careful to establish the | j j
first rudimentary manifestations of Spiritualism; but, I think, what is j j j
of the greatest necessity from every point of view is to give accurate, j j j
unexaggerated facts, i propose, therefore, to-night to take up my cor- j j j
respondence with the Christian World where I left it, and to continue | ! j
my narrative of Spiritualism in the home circle.
It is now ten years ago, when at our daily meals as many unseen j j j
visitors manifested their presence and interest in our family life as there j i
were spirits in the bondage of the flesh. Our “ little group ” of j
children in the spirit world, by the despised raps (each one known by I j
his individual rap), joined in conversation at nearly every meal, or moved j |
the table about, especially when the cup i j i
That cheers, but not inebriates, ] (I
Waits on each, j j
and when we “ welcomed peaceful evening in.” And with them came ij
their elder guides and guardians, seen by some, heard by all.
At this time I made the acquaintance of my good and much-esteemed I j
friends Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, and seeing there was so much in common j j |
between us, it is natural to expect in our joint investigations unusually j j j
good (startling, shall I say ?) manifestations of spirit power ; together i J j
with that most difficult result, spiritual personal identity.
It is rather remarkable that our children, who had become so accus- I j |
tomed to free and happy communications with their spirit friends by j (j
means of raps, physical movements, and even sight, should, as soon as j) |
the voice was added, have manifested feelings of fear, and, I may add, |) i
a timidity which to this day precludes the resumption with them of I j
many forms of mediumship. Is not the hint thus clearly conveyed that j j |
the despised alphabet of Spiritualism is necessary? “I have many I j
things to say unto you,” many truths to convey, “ but ye cannot bear i j
them yet.”
One Saturday evening, after having had during tea spirit raps con- \ I j
tinually upon the table and around the room replying intelligently to j | j
questions, and endorsing various parts of our family conversation, we I
sat down around a heavy dining-table. Our party comprised Mr. and j i
Mrs. Everitt, my sister, F. J. T., myself, my wife, and four children, j i
Our unseen but ever active spirit friends directed us to read the twelfth j j
chapter of 1st Corinthians (on Spiritual Gifts), and then to offer a short j j
prayer. We invariably at set seances commenced with a short prayer, j j |
Lights were then put out by direction, and the cool spirit breeze very \ j
soon was felt by all in the circle, as also very strong and delicious | •
perfumes, as of violets.! Our little boy soon said, “I see a beautiful | j j
spirit with a bowl containing four different-coloured waters ! Now she’s i j j
throwing some over us,” and immediately we discovered a different scent, I j
an aromatic one, followed by others. We sang some little part songs j
with the children; then spirit lights appeared, seen by all. Small pure ! j
lights sprang from the table, rocket-like, leaving a thin trail of light in !j
their course upwards.
Stars floated about the room, which suggested to the children to sing j |
“Twinkle, twinkle, little star;” upon commencing which a large bluish j j
one floated about and twinkled to the song. At the end we asked for a j j
greeting for each of the little ones, when a shooting star darted from j 1!
the centre to each little face in turn. A very faint whisper of a spirit j j
voice was all we could obtain at this sitting, so the children, with some j j
little disappointment, but yet with glad hearts, went to bed. On opening j j I
the folding-doors into the adjoining room we found perfumes strong j j j
even there. 11J
After supper we sat again—the five adults only. After the production j j
of lights and perfumes again in profusion, we heard the card-board tube, 11 j
which we had placed in the centre of the table, tapping against the | j i
ceiling. A cooler breeze came, followed by vibration of the table and j j
atmosphere, and suddenly the spirit, addressing F. J. T., said in a clear | j j
* A paper read.last Monday weelt before the National Assooiat’on of SpirltualudF.
voice, different to any human one, and giving me the impression of a
voice without chest force,
“ Good evening!" F. J. T. started, at which the spirit said (more
softly), “ I thought you were so brave t ”
F. J. T.—“ So I am, but you came so suddenly.”
Spirit—“ Til be more careful another time. You have friends here
to-night. Introduce me."
Upon this being done, we all in turn had a most interesting conver¬
sation for over an hour. During this time one of the servants came
into the adjoining room to make up the fire, and heard much of what
transpired. I mention this to dispel the idea of delusion on our part.
I asked if the children might sit on another occasion.
Spirit—“ Setter not; it frightens children."
M. T.-—“ But ours are accustomed to seances. Will you come and
talk to them to-morrow evening for a short time?”
Spirit—‘Ill try. It's getting late. I must go. The tube is rather
clumsy."
We promised a lighter one; and I asked him to touch me with the
tube before he left. The spirit then said—“ Good night, friends" and
the tube was thrown from above and hit my shoulder as requested.
The following Sunday evening all who were present on the previous
evening sat, with the addition of my wife’s sister and her two servants.
I had previously provided paper on which to take notes as well as I
could in the dark, and from their help the following is written. The
passages of Scripture to which we were directed by the much-despised
table raps were remarkable ; viz., Ezek. ch. viii., 1st to middle of the
3rd verse; ch. xi., half of 1st verse; and ch. x., 1st to 4th verse. Our
first sitting was rather unsuccessful.
Ezekiel viii. 1—3 :—
1. And it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth month, in the fifth
day of the month, as I sat in mine house, and the elders of Judah sat before
me, that the hand of the Lord fell upon me.
2. Then I beheld, and lo a likeness as the appearance of fire: from the
appearance of his loins, even downward, fire; and from his loins, even upward,
as the appearance of brightness, as the colour of amber.
3. And he put forth the form of an hand, and took me by a lock of mine
head; and the Spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heaven, and
brought me in the visions of God . . .
Oh. xi. part ver. 1:—
Moreover, the Spirit lifted me up and brought me unto the east gate of the
Lord’s house .. .
Ch. x. ver. 1—4 j—
1. Then I looked, and, behold, in the firmament that was above the head of
the cherubims there appeared over them as it were a sapphire stone, as the
appearance of the likeness of a throne.
2. And he spake unto the man clothed with linen, and said, Go in between
the wheels, even under the cherub, and fill thine hands with coals of fire from
between the cherubims, and scatter them over the city. And he went in in
my sight.
3. Now the cherubims stood on the right side of the house when the man
went in; and the cloud filled the inner court.
4. Then the glory of the Lord went up from the cherub, aqd stood over the
threshold of the house; and the boose was filled with the cloud, and the
court was full of the brightness of the Lord's glory.
But after perfumes in profusion, and fainter lights than on the
previous evening, the spirit came. His voice was much weaker, and
he commenced speaking with more caution. As soon as he had esta¬
blished a freedom with the children, and said one or two funny things
to make them laugh, he suddenly, in a loud voice, turned to little Nelly,
who was laughing, and said, “ Little Nelly." She is naturally very shy
and timid, and it was too much for her to be so addressed by a strange
voice. She began to cry.
The spirit-vqice, turning to F. J. T., said, “ There ! I'm sorry; but
I told you so. I must go." And we broke up the seance, the little girl’s
timidity being, however, a powerful proof of the reality of the voice,
and of its being distinct from Mrs. Everitt’s, with whom she was now
on the best terms.
The next sitting, after supper, was the most interesting. It was
protracted, and I can but briefly indicate the kind of conversation
which transpired. Our nurse was the only addition to the five first
named.
The spirit appeared again after the perfumes and cool breeze, with a
full voice before Mrs. Everitt was entranced, so that at first we heard
her voice, distinct from his, which to me was very satisfactory, and dis¬
proves the theory of ventriloquism, were that theory admissible, when
only intimate friends, whom you could trust, were present.
He first said how sorry he was to have frightened little Nelly. He
was going to give her little spirit-brother’s and sister’s love, and tell
her about them. He told us much of their happy home together, in a
beautiful house situate in a garden: told us of some spirits with them
known only to us, and not to the medium: spoke of my mother as a
very beautiful spirit; and, at our request, went away for a minute to
see what they were doing, during which time another spirit spoke.
His voice and accent were entirely different, and suffused with playful
humour.
The first spirit on returning spoke of my father and mother, and
their surroundings; after which I asked about the raising of Lazarus,
and had an interesting conversation upon that subject.
He then spoke of the ministering spirits who were watching over us
and assisting us in a hundred ways, and referred to our assisting those
in a lower sphere to rise by reason of unconscious influence which ever
emanated from us.
The spirit then offered up a short prayer, invoking a blessing, and
praying for our influence to be kept pure. Much of this has already
appeared in The Spiritualist, so that I have curtailed it here.
I was silent at the close of this seance, and thinking with some
degree of perplexity of what had occurred, and how real and near the
spirit-world is, when we heard a rapid but slight tapping on paper,
April 18, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
similar to the click of an electric needle. It was some direct spirit¬
writing being produced, and in five seconds the paper was dropped
upon the centre of the table, with a message which I now have, and
which it would be an impossibility to copy under as many minutes.
It read thus, and was a reply to my mental inquiries :—
You seem to be puzzled at our close proximity, but as regards your spirits
you are living in our world. You only require your material body to move
with in this your material world. Remove your atmosphere, you are then
present with us. By giving us the conditions we are joined with you; in fact,
we make a part of yourselves. We influence you to do and say things that
you believe are from your interior selves. By-and-by we shall be able to
make ourselves visible to you, so that we form part of your family. You are
now the medium of earth and heaven.
I have brought this piece of writing for your inspection to-night, as
also two other pieces, much longer, consisting of over five hundred
words, which were also written under test conditions in a few seconds—
a physical impossibility, for it has taken me about half an hour to copy
each'of them.
On the 6th July, 1871, at supper time, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt being
present, knocks, heavier than usual, came upon the table and floor, and
conveyed the wish of our spirit friends that a party of eight Spirit¬
ualists (named) should go together to Penzance for a trip. This visit
was thus organised, and to that visit I will presently refer. But three
days after this occurred rather a noteworthy seance. First with the
children, at which some good counsel was given to them from a little
spirit sister Louisa. I may note, in passing, that when this sister first
came, and gave her name, it was a complete mystery to us. We thought
not of the first little stillborn one which nearly cost the dear mother’s
life, but which, had it lived, was to have been called “Louisa.” Had it
lived I She claimed life, and demanded her name to be registered in the
Family Bible ; and now she dictated this prayer for the children—beau¬
tiful in its simplicity
Good Jesus, my tender Shepherd, keep Thy little lambs this day from evil
thoughts. 0 hold me in Thy arms and bless me ; then I can in my turn do
good to other poor little dears who do not know, as we know, of good spirits
around.
And under the table, on a small scrap of blank paper I had placed there
with a pencil (on spec.), were the words “ We will come again.”
As soon as the children had retired, and we had taken out the extra
leaf from the dining table which had been put in for the children’s sitting
(for Mr. and Mrs. Everitt’s were added to this party), we nearly closed
the table together, and covered it and the aperture with a tablecloth.
Immediately little fingers were busy moving the cloth up and down, and
as we put our hands near they took hold of our fingers, and playfully
tapped our hands.
We were then directed to put out the light. This was immediately
followed by a spirit voice in whisper. It was the first time my grand¬
father bad spoken ; he said, “ You want too much at once! ”
Very likely, for it was difficult to curb our wishes for tests and proofs
in those fascinating and successive openings of varied spirit power.
Mrs. Everitt was nervous, and I jokingly said, “ Ye fearful saint,
fresh courage take,” and in an instant she was entranced, and John
Watt was quietly talking to my wife, who was outside the circle and
lying on the sofa at the wall. This chat was confidential, but it revealed
his intimate knowledge of every family fact.
John Watt then addressed us all, told us my father had written a
message on the paper, and we might light the candle and see. Sure
enough there it was; not much, certainly, for it was only these words, i j
but it was dear, because no mortal hand had written it, but one whom !
death had made beautiful:—
My dear Children—I will come ns often as I can and talk to you.
Mrs. Everitt, on awakening from her trance, described spirits she | ]
had seen in the spirit-world, including John Watt, who only said to her,
Ye fearful saint, fresh courage take," and passed on 1 She had also
seen my father, who was away part of the time while she was speaking i!
with the others, and said on his return, “ He had been singing out of tune, | j
so that Morell might recognise him /” My grandfather also said he had
been singing. This confirmed the first part of the seance, which had
commenced with singing, and during which we had distinctly recognised
these two voices, and I had remarked upon my father having made the | j
same mistake in singing one part of the tune as he invariably did in
earth-life, and for which we had often rated him.
At this stance an old nurse of ours was present, who saw distinctly
the spirits present, and described their appearance. None of these had
she seen in earth-life, excepting Louisa, the little stillborn one, whom
she now described as different to all the others, and in appearance a
beautiful girl of thirteen, with dark, flowing hair.
I come now to the visit of eight Spiritualists together to Cornwall, as |
had been planned by the spirits, and from which unusual manifestations
might be expected. And they came.
I must be as brief as possible here, for the time at my disposal would
be inadequate to tell of the continual stream of spiritual communion
which literally flowed in from our first start at seven o’clock in the
morning of Saturday, Aug. 5th, 1871, and continued unbroken for a
whole fortnight, day and night
My wife was in her chamber with our last boy, three weeks’ old, and
on more than one occasion manifestations occurred there (in Hendon)
and in Cornwall at the same time, the spirit telling me what was tran¬
spiring ; which was verified subsequently, ad literatim.
Starting at 7.40 a.m., we eight just filling a first-class carriage, the
despised raps all over the carriage and on the articles of luggage
indicated the presence of our spirit friends. In the long tunnels scents
filled the carriage with their refreshing odour, and spirit-lights flitted
about as though in sport.
The difficulty of finding a lodging together was solved by these
unseen guides, who audibly directed Mrs. Everitt to go on, and on, j
outside Penzance, until we almost began to distrust them. But our
ij faith saved us, for after walking on to the small fishing village of
Newlyn, we found one old rambling house with ample accommodation
j for us all.
Here, night after night, we had seances with the spirits, the room
filled with sweet odours and spirit-lights: every morning at the
i breakfast-table raps greeted us and directed us to read our morning
i portion ; and every night, on retiring to rest, spirit-raps resounded in
! each bedroom which we occupied. On one occasion, in dressing, Mrs.
J Everitt’s ring was taken, to be returned to her washing basin in two
pieces some days after: it had become so tightly embedded in her
finger that it could not be removed, and was returned thus to prevent
its further use. At the first sitting, with doors closed and shutters
closed over the outside of the window, I was asked to sing, and on con¬
cluding my song a pebble was put into my hand and another dropped
into the lap of one of the others. At another sitting, a strange, heavy
knock came all over the room, and a strange spirit came to ask us to
pray for him ; but it was months after before we found out by his re¬
appearance at my own home circle who he was; and I forbear, for the
sake of the living, to tell all that strange tale, which I verified in every
particular. His next appearance, I may mention, was to tell us he had
progressed and risen to a higher sphere; this came through the trance
mediumship of one of my sons, who had never heard of the first
! occurrence.
On another evening the spirit was seen both by Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt at the same time, while they sat on the beach, but as a further
i confirmation they were both touched. Sitting at the Land’s End, with
|) the wild waves rolling around us, Mrs. Everitt had several psycho-
I ( i metrical visions induced by placing pieces of rock upon her forehead,
! ( | sometimes so vivid and repulsive as to make her recoil and even shriek
j j i out. Some of these I have published, and these, with many other
| ] wonderful facts, have been “ exposed ” in a learned way by the West
!) I Briton, who referred them to our own delusions.
Was it a delusion when eight of us saw a hamper of provisions
11 ! walking about the inn floor at Pumards Head while the waiter was
!) 1 getting the cloth laid, and knives and forks spread for dinner, followed
j / by raps on the table, walls, shutters, and hamper, while dining 1 And
| ( j could we imagine that we felt a strong kick beneath us when sitting
j on a woodland bank, apart from one another ? Or could one have so
j | rapped or kicked another while sitting on terra-finna f Yet these are
j ( the daily incidents of our holiday life during those sixteen days; and,
I r as I look through my diary, some of the daily incidents r ead so
i j 1 strangely, though in their occurrence they came and fitted in so
j j naturally, that I cannot, without giving all the surroundings which led
j ( to them, recount them. That is here impossible.
A very interesting case of spirit-identity occurred in the September
i) | following. One Sunday evening my wife and I, with three children,
! were sitting alone. We had sung that charming hymn of Lynch’s,
! j | beginning—
I have looked above me,
Saying, as I stood,
Shall I over love Thee,
Even as I would ?
i when knocks came so freely on the table as to become confusing. In
! the midst one of the children was entranced, and began to speak for
the different little spirits who had been rapping. After family chit¬
chat the influence perceptibly changed. My boy assumed, instead of
his former lively gait, that of a demure, sad adult. She said her name
i was Sophia, and I immediately coupled her in thought to a sister I had
j lost of that name. But questions and answers did not tally. I was
| puzzled. I asked her age. It was sixty-tbree, which at once dismissed
my juvenile sister. After a few other questions I thought I knew who
it was; it was a relative my boy had never seen, nor even heard of.
I asked a question relating to an incident no one present knew—
[! tragic in the extreme. My boy at once sobbed violently, and, fearing
consequences, I begged the spirit to calm herself, and to send my
mother through the lad, as her influence invariably sweetened and
removed all troubles.
My mother then came. She knew nothing of what had transpired,
1 but, on being told, she asked me pointedly whether that was not test
enough of spirit identity, for my faith often wavered. I said, “ Yes;
but may I ask a still further test.’’ “ Yes.” I said, “Tell Sophia to
go over to Fanny, and write me a message to-night through her hand.”
Next morning my sister Fanny came in. She said she had a most strange
11 experience last night. She was sitting with Mr. and Mrs. Crisp, expecting
a message for them, when anew influence came, and a spirit who had never
written through her baud had insisted on writing one for me, and there it
was! It related to the tale of sorrow which had clouded her earth
11 life, calling it her hell of memory, from which she sought to rise.
In this case, as in many other Spiritualistic experiences 1 could
I i relate, you will see that there are several phrases acting one upon the
i | other, of such sort that if any one might be accounted for by reference
I to the imagination or brain cerebration, so many combined forbid such
i an explanation, and leave only the Spiritualistic theory to account for
(| them satisfactorily.
In fact, I see no other theory to account for the one strange fact I
IS recorded in The Christian World, in March, 1878, when in full lamp-
| light, in the presence of all our own family and servants, and before
)! them only, the leaf was taken clean out of my dining-table, which,
| j without mortal touch, was first unlocked and extended for the
| ] purpose.
>; About this time (1872) we removed to a new house, which I had
\ j been building, and we shall not soon forget the marvellous exhibitions
| | of spirit-presence which greeted us in our new home. We were told by
) | raps, slowly spelt out, to “ have a dedication of the house as soon as con-
(| venieut,”and, meantime, our bells were frequently rung by unseen hands
11 at all times of the day. On one occasion it was an amusement to the
1 servants and children to stand under the row of bells and see one
190
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 18, 1879.
after another ring, when we knew no one was near or at the other \ j
end. The ringing usually came on Wednesday evenings, and when | /
my wife and I were at the week-day service. | j
Good Friday was fixed for our special sitting, and our good friends I j
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt came from town to be present with us. We i j
were directed by raps to read Ephesians 6th chap., which I did j j
until stopped by these spirits at the end of the eighteenth verse, i)
This was, then, the children’s seance. The dining-table had been
pulled out, and the cloth placed so as to cover a vacant space of about
six inches. Here continually little fingers from below pushed up the j
cloth, and took our hands as we placed them there in turn; in the
dark each one was touched by gentle, warm spirit hands, and the |
spirit spoke gently to the children before they retired to rest. !
Later the adults sat, and a distinctly different rap to any we had j j
before heard came; it sounded like metal upon metal. This was j j
succeeded by a new spirit voice—that of a dear friend lately passed i /
away. Then our three little unseen children spoke, one after another.
We asked why the bells rang.
“ Because,” the spirits replied, “we wanted the door open.”
Again we sang, and a new voice joined with us, and we retired to j
the drawing-room, having first looked at a paper we had left on the '
table for spirit-writing, but there was a blank. j
While chatting round the fire, raps came again, and told us to return j
to the dining-room, where we should find some direct writing; and I
there we found these words plainly written :—
“ Unity, peace, love, and harmony dwell here. We, a loving band, surround
you. May the peace of God the All-Father bo with you for evermore.”
This was written after we had left the room, and turned down the i j
lights, and before anyone had returned to it. i j
It is difficult to select instances of spirit presence at this time, for j j j
they were perpetual, and entered as naturally into our everyday life as j j
did the presence of any of the family.
To the children, childish messages and incidents were perpetually I j
occurring, at all hours of the day, and to all, sympathetic greetings j j
and advice in our daily engagements.
Our friends Mr. and Mrs. Everitt soon after came to live next to us ; j j
and, apart from the many interesting sittings they had for more public i j
enquirers, we may say that our communion was sweet, and, to us, | /
intensely interesting. It was at two of these sittings we had the direct j ]
writing I have brought for your inspection to-night.*
But this paper on “ Spiritualism at Home ” would be incomplete did i)
I not refer to instances of healing in which we were interested; they j (
shall be brief. The Zouave Jacob came to see us when he was in j
London in 1870 or 1871, when ray wife was a confirmed invalid, and | j
had been for two years lying down and unable to walk. He calmly j (
looked at her, touched her where the internal mischief lurked (we had j j
told him nothing), and from that moment strength returned slowly j
until she was perfectly well. I need only add, last summer we had I j
many walks of ten miles at a stretch and hope to have, some again this i )
year. My sister went to him with a whitlow; as he touched it it j |
healed, and she came away with her glove on. In about three years
after I had built my house at Hendon I was myself seriously ill. j)
Every day I had neuralgia in the stomach, constant and excruciating {(
pain, and I had to give up all attention to business. I could not
latterly walk the length of my own garden, and no medical treatment j j
was of any permanent avail. My brother, who was my medical man, j j
met Miss Godfrey at my house for a clairvoyant examination, and in i j
it, to my great dismay, after discovering the disease, she prescribed j /
mesmerism, and to remove off the clay soil to one of gravel. I must j (
leave Hendon at any cost. T/ien I felt it to be impossible. I was on [ j
my back, powerless, and utterly helpless. In her mesmeric sleep she ■ j
said that s/ie could cure me probably, if she could only get to me daily. \
“ But,” she added, “ that is impossible.”
However, it resulted in her kindly coming to me every Saturday :
until Monday, during which period her hands were upon me, as the j j
invisibles directed, three and four hours at a time for, say, five or six i |
times in these three days.
The effect was simply marvellous, and in three or four weeks I was I
pretty well again; she has since, on any threatened return of this i |
painful malady, invariably removed it after one or at most two sittings, j j
I feel grateful to Miss Godfrey, and commend her confidently to any I j
invalids. But during her mesmerism at Hendon our invisible friends 11
were always about us, knocking on the couch, or chair, or floor, and more i \
than once spoke to me through her, and described the modus operandi j
of this vital force.
Long as Miss Godfrey sat over me she was never exhausted, but felt j
spirit hands passing influence through her to me, and my feeling was as i
if drinking in the elixir of life. Nor did the feeling of imbibing vital |
force leave me for some time after she had ceased to touch me.
Sometimes she was entranced during the operation, and then my [
father, or some other spirit, spoke to me words of which she was entirely j
unconscious. Once my father said:—
Glad to see you on the road to health, .and getting out of this place, pretty 11
as it is. It is almost a pity to go before the lads come home from school; but ! (
remember ■wherever you go we shall go with you. Remember, many as you 1 j
have on earth to love you, you have as many here. We take tunas as )
guardians. j j
These little bye conversations were most interesting, and it is probable |)
that any Spiritualist engaging Miss Godfrey for healing would be almost ; j
reconciled to suffer while having thus the ‘‘gates ajar.”
The experiences in Spiritualism I have thus briefly recounted j \
extended over many years; and although I am aware I have (from |)
anxiety to condense) very imperfectly recorded some of the facts, I j >
have been extremely careful—as I always have been, for I transcribed | (
* See Spiritual-'et, Oct. 1,1873.
them regularly into a diary kept for the purpose—to understate rather
than exaggerate these marvellous phenomena.
Surprising as these phenomenal exhibitions of Spiritualism are, I
feel, like my friend Mr. Stainton-Moses, that we cannot rest there.
And that suggests: the object of this Association is to follow up facts
carefully; to substantiate these facts accurately, and, if we can, upon a
scientific basis—although, in the present state of both religious and
scientific thought, this is not an easy thing to do. Both sides ignore
their very existence, although, with such an array of facts before them,
it is difficult to understand how that can be done; hence again, I say,
the object of this Association is to substantiate facts before attempting
to account for them. It is not our object, I submit, to raise these phe¬
nomena into a religion, and to bow down and worship them. Nothing
has tended to do so much harm to thfd* Association, in my opinion, as
has the clamour to accept Spiritualism as a new religious teaching, and
before we have intelligently collated facts.
I will not be so bold as to assert that Spiritualism will not become a
divine Evangel to the world, as it has been to many an individual
soul who was as—
“ An infant crying in the night,
An infant crying for the light,
And with no language but a cry.”
Spiritualism may be, and probably is, the only avenue through
which some can approach to the spirit of worship; but it is after all
only an avenue, leading up to the inner shrine of the soul; where
God’s shekinah is the holy of holies, and there we worship and come
forth to work again with a glory which transfigures our future life.
The business of this Association is to present to the world an
accurate and indisputable succession of facts, so collated that only one
theory, and, as we think, the spiritual theory, will account for them.
It is not our business to associate them with all the miserable feelings
after truth—some exploded long ago, others doomed to be absorbed
by fuller light—any more than it is with Christian life itself, which
in the outset of this Association was ostracised, I now begin to fear,
unwisely. For if I want to search in the dark for anything, do I
not take with me the lamp that I have ? And I am not sure that
we, as an Association, would not have been wiser to incorporate
ourselves with the lamps of God’s truth, which we already hold
(some of them, I grant, need trimming), rather than pander to that
materialism or Atheism which is diametrically opposed to the truths
we are seeking to establish.
I know the constitution of this society would have been totally
changed ; and instead of advancing hand in hand we should of necessity
have had coteries of the varied characters, now associated as a curious
medley group. If all religious thought could be excluded, and we could
go on a scientific basis, well and good: but the very nature of our
inquiries leads us on into the domain of religion, where
Tot homines—tot sententies !
We started on a mission of research, declaring we would advance with
the lamp of science only. How far it has been successful let the pages of
The Spiritualist testify.
I may not inaptly quote here from a writer in Fraser's Magazine, in
September, 1877:—
Let science come forward in its due time and proper rank—a rank de¬
cidedly lower than it now lays claims to. Let these pursue their quests, and
good luck to them ; but let them know their place. When we long for music
a lecture on acoustics will not serve. T tell yon, gentlemen, science alone can
deal with nothing rightly. Science by herself misconceives and misinterprets
everything. It finds matter and mechanism everywhere because it has no
means of finding anything else. It searches for life, and cannot find it—can
find no principle of vitality. It searches for God, and cannot find Him. Can
you by searching find out God ? The poet, the artist, every healthy child sees
the physical world far truer than you do.
But if this Association is to continue a success, as to a certain extent
it certainly has been hitherto, and to coutinue the really good service it
has already done, it will be by a steady, persistent following up of its
researches as a body, and by collecting authentic records from our indi¬
vidual members. This latter experience will be especially valuable to
ms, because we know that the best facts, the best tests, and the most
sacred records can be thence produced, while probably the experiments
of our Research Committee will have most weight with the scientific
mind.
Years ago the cry was for facts—facts—facts; and to-day there is
still the same cry, if we are to convince the outside world. Whether that
is really so necessary as some of you appear to think I begin to doubt;
and I incline rather to keep our treasure safe, and to dig deeper in the
same quarry, to see if we can come upon the perennial spring which
washes up to us so much gold. To do this we may perhaps be wisest to
return often to the borne circle; follow up our quests there, illumined by
all the individual light we already possess ; and, returning to the rallying
point formed by this Association, tell one another, and one another only,
where the new Ught has led us. I have a shrewd conviction where that
will be, for
There’s not a path we tread
Bat leads us up to God.
As flame ascends,
As vapours to the earth in showers return,
As the poised ocean toward the attracting moon
Swells, and the ever-listening planets, charm’d
By the sun’s call, their onward pace incline,
So all things which have life aspire to God,
Exhaustless fount of intellectual day—
Centre of souls.
Nor is the care of heaven withhold
From sending to the soil external aid;
That in their stations all may persevere
To climb the ascent cf being, and approach
For ever nearer to the Life divine.
Apkil 18,1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST
191
THE THIRTY-FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF MODERN | j |
SPIRITUALISM. I j I
On Sunday, March 30, services under the management of Mr. J. W. i J!
Fletcher, were held morning and evening in the Cavendish Rooms, i > |
London. m
In the evening there was a full attendance. j (
Mr. H. Greene, who presided, gave a short address, and stated that j j j
thirty-one years ago the manifestations at Hydesville formed the i) j
first step towards placing proof of man’s immortality upon a scientific i s |
basis. !) i
Mrs. Nosworthy stated that that was the first time she had at- j \ j
tempted to speak in public since the departure to the higher life of j (j
her father, the late Mr. George Thompson. She felt Uke a child | > |
picking up shells by the side of the ocean of knowledge, and she had i i j
first been drawn to Spiritualism by its religious teachings. Previously |1 |
she had found truer responses to the religious aspirations of her j, |
heart in the writings of the poets than in the dogmas of the pulpit, j i j
although the preachers were good and sincere men. She subsequently j J i
examined the phenomena, went to Miss Lottie Fowler’s seances, and at j i j
last a medium developed in her own family; her daughter, a little i j
child nine years of age, became a trance medium, and with dramatic ; j
power and an inspired tongue, told of the lives of spirits in various i |
conditions. A clergyman asserted that the child had been reading ,!
Dante's Divine Comedy. In the first place, the book was not in the Ji
house; in the second, the child could not have understood it had it j) j
been; and in the third, the clergyman’s theory (to which he adhered) | j |
made her little girl out to be excessively wicked, so she quitted his | (j
church. The greatest teaching of Spiritualism was that of the necessity j 5 j
of cultivating the individual spirit. i (|
Mr. Thomas Shorter, after a brief reference to the departure from j (i
earth-life of Mr. George Thompson and Mr. William Howitt, said that j | i
he would not speak against physical manifestations or scientific re- (1
search, but was more in favour of the moral and religious aspects of ! \ J
Spiritualism. j) \
Mrs. Andrews then delivered an address, which was published in last (i
week’s Spiritualist. J j
Mrs. Fletcher made a few remarks, and Mr. Fletcher read some j { j
]otters from Spiritualists in foreign countries. jj
“ To the Spiritualists of London and England I send you greetings j | i
of grace and goodwill, of peace and pleasant memories. God and the j (i
good angels bless you all.
“ The advent of modern Spiritualism, demonstrating a future exist- | r i
ence and kindling the soul’s purest affections, was a momentous event j \ i
in the world’s history. It is well to commemorate it in all lands and >!
under all skies; for though local in origin, it is cosmopolitan in spirit 1 j j
and fraternal in tendency. ^ j i
“ Communion with the spirit world is now an established fact. It is 1 > i
this, and more: it spans the whole realm of mental science, philosophy, j) j
and religion. It meets the soul’s demands; its inspiration is continued, i (i
and its influence exalting.
In a true religious Spiritualism the method is (or rather should be) j) |
constructive, and the purpose, to educate humanity for that future pro- | (i
gressive existence which stretches in increasing loveliness along the i j j
measureless eras of eternity. Spiritualism being the universal solvent, j) i
the key that unlocks the mystery of the ages, and the truth that robs (
Death of its Sting, and the Grave of its Victory, must necessarily i; I
prosper. Were it the subject of destruction it would long ago have been j) |
slaughtered, killed outright in the household of its professed friends.
“But it lives, and is moving on like a giant to complete victory, j) i
Recently the Rev, Charles Beecher published a large volume under j j!
the telling title, or heading, Spiritual Manifestations. He frankly j (j
admits the reality of the phenomena. The book is having an extensive |; j
sale. I met the Rev. Thomas K. Beecher last autumn at a siance. i) ]
Last week I gave three lectures in a Baptist church, Kirtland, Ohio, j j j
the Baptist minister taking a part in the services, and the Baptist !) 1
choir discoursing excellent music. I mention these as items—as little j) |
straws telling which way the religious current is drifting. Possibly it j (j
may interest you to know that the Rev. Mr. Flower, pastor of the J j j
Christian Church Alliance in Ohio, and editor of the Independent Age, j) |
has come out a decided Spiritualist; two-thirds of his church mem- (
bers have followed him; they denominate themselves Christian I) I
Spiritualists. j \ i
“ What is greatly needed in the ranks of American Spiritualists is j (I
more unity of action—perhaps it may be summed up in the word j j j
organisation; I repeat it, organisation upon a broad, national, j j j
religious basis, with calm, candid, well-balanced souls for officers. j) j
“ There is in all lands need of a better understanding of the purposes 1 > j
and moral sanctities connected with the spiritual philosophy; a clearer (< j
apprehension of the duties and obligations of life; a more heartfelt | j I
encouragement to genuine mediums; a keener discrimination relating 11
to the status of controlling spirits; a more earnest appeal to the religious j (j
nature, and a more thorough consecration of heart and soul to the i | j
interests of truth. I am full of hope, full of faith, and aflame with love j 11
for the heavenly principles of Spiritualism. Through you I send kind j j ]
remembrances to the Spiritualists of London; I am in debt to several j S j
for their excellent letters; remind them that delay is not neglect, j) j
Often do I come to them in spirit, never forgetting my friends. f!
“ May your anniversary prove not only an enjoyable, but a morally I s j
and spiritually profitable occasion. “ J. M. Peebles.
“ Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A., March 13th, 1879." j (i
Letters from various gentlemen who had been invited to speak were ] l \
read by Mr. Fletcher, including the following post-card from Mr. Enmore j | i
Jones:— j) |
To Ms. Fletchek :—I have not attended any of your Sunday services, ; j ]
because I consider they are only a business advertisement dodge. j) i
Spiritualism can never thrive while camp followers talk religion for dollars,
and set up meetings for that purpose. * J. E. J.
March 20,1879.
“This," quietly added Mr. Fletcher, “is from one who calls himself
a Christian Spiritualist."
Mr. Jones’s note was received with a shower of hisses from all parts
of the crowded hall.
The soiree at Cavendish Rooms on Wednesday, April 2nd, was largely
attended, every ticket being taken, and was of an entertaining nature.
The first part was devoted to instrumental and vocal music, several
artistes taking part, among whom wereMme. Schneegans, Mrs. Weldon,
Miss Elene Webster, Miss Dicksee, Mr. Earnest Tietkens, Signor de
Lora, and others, whose efforts elicited warm marks of approval. At
9.30 the floor was cleared for dancing. Supper was served in the rooms
below. Altogether the entertainment was a happy ending to the thirty-
first anniversary, and Mr. Fletcher’s efforts were highly appreciated.
The assistance of Miss Leslie Younge, Mrs. Maltby, Miss Dollie Mait¬
land, and others, conduced not a little to the success of the entertain¬
ment.   
OBITUARY.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—At half-past three to-day there passed away in London one of
the most remarkable women it has been my lot to know, during fifty
years, on two continents—Mrs. Rebecca Leaf, of 43, Albion-street,
Hyde Park.
For many years she has been an invalid, but she had lived so long
in delicate health, being over sixty years of age, that I hoped she
might remain with us for some years longer. She had a sound,
brilliant, and truly Catholic mind. She had broad, deep, and delicate
culture, and she kept pace with the foremost of our time in knowledge
and appreciation. She bad faith, hope, and charity in superlative
degree, but most she excelled in charity—the love that united her to
our Lord and all His creation. The ‘‘ Strong Son of God, Almighty
Love,” was her Father, her Brother, her Infinite Lover.
Many hearts are bereaved this day; our beloved and revered fiiend
has gone within the veil. We shall see her no more till we wake with
her in the summer land. Her place can never be filled. Into her large,
warm heart we could pour every sorrow. To her calm, and yet brilliant
mind we could reveal every idea and every fact, however recondite,
that had relation to use.
Never have I met any one with a more tender tolerance for all. To
her humanity was always growing, under the care and culture of a
Heavenly Father, and though she saw that freedom of will seemed to
lead to destruction, she saw also that the soul limited by punishment
was redeemed and saved by the ministry of suffering born of sin.
Always she saw the Father, and the Father in the Son, reconciling
the world unto Himself. The paternity of God was her supreme
idea. She saw that as a Father He gave Himself in His Son, that the
world through Him might be saved.
Our friend had knowledge beyond what is the portion of even the
favoured few, but her wisdom was greater than her knowledge. She
was beautiful, brilliant, beloved. Who shall take her place 1 To
whom can we speak personally, and particularly universally and theo¬
logically, as #e could speak to her ? She could understand fully when
we could only give the shadow of an idea. She was one of those
earnest and fervent Spiritualists who would prove all things, and hold
fast what is good.
There is one way that we may mitigate our sorrow for our great
loss. We may reflect on.the infinite beauty into which she has
entered. We may come into our own hearts and sit quietly in our
great love, and feel the emanations of sweetness and light that will
breathe from her blessed spirit through all our being. What the
higher, inner, and real life is to our glorified friend we shall thus
know each in our measure. And let all of us who love her in the true
holiness of love promise her, in the silence of all flesh, to be faithful
unto our own souls, as she was faithful; to cultivate the divine charity
till there shall be always in our hearts the cultus that shall make us
temples of the living God. And may we pray that she will be near us,
in some measure, as she is with the child of her heart, who is an
extension of her own being ; and with this one upon whom is found
her love without limit, may many of us who are also bereaved be per¬
mitted to sympathise—till all our loss shall become gain through
Him who has loved us, and given Himself for us.
Mart S. G. Nichols.
32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s Court, London, S.W., April 2nd, 1879.
British Museum Lectures.—As on previous occasions, Dr. Carter
Blake will take a class round the Galleries of Antiquities and Natural
History of the British Museum, on Thursday, April 24th, Monday,
April 28th, and Thursday, May 1st, from 11 to 1 p.m. Supplementary
discourses will be delivered, it is said, by Professor Owen, C.B., F.R.S.,
in the Natural History Department; by Mr. W. Carruthers, F.R.S.,
Keeper of the Botanical Department; by Mr. Samuel Birch, LL.D.,
on “ Egypt;’’ and by Mr. St. Chad Boscawen on “Assyria.”
Spiritualism in India.—The readers of this journal in India greatly
desire a visit from a good physical medium, yet Mr. Eglinton is about
to return to England, and Dr. Slade to New York, without going to
Hindustan. The reason is that East Indian Spiritualists have neither
any organisation nor any local centre in which their general wishes,
and their names and addresses, are known ; consequently no medium
can ascertain beforehand whether he will have sufficient engagements
to warrant his passing through the country. The offer of brief engage¬
ments along the northern shores of the Mediterranean would facilitate
(he visit of English mediums to India.
192
April 18, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A HYMN FROM THE RIG-VEDA.
“ 1. In the beginning there arose the source of golden
light. He was the one born Lord of all that is. He
stablished the earth and this sky. Who is the God to
whom we shall offer our sacrifice ?
“2. He who gives life, He who gives strength; whose
command all the bright gods revere; whose shadow is im¬
mortality ; whose shadow is death. Who is the God to
whom we shall offer our sacrifice ?
“ 3. He who through his power is the one King of the
breathing and awaking world. He who governs all, man
and beast. Who is the God to whom we shall offer our
sacrifice ?
“4. He whose power these snowy mountains, whose
power the sea proclaims, with the distant river. He whose
these regions are as it were His two arms. Who is the
God to whom we shall offer our sacrifice ?
“ 5. He through whom the sky is bright and the earth
firm. He through whom the heaven was stablished, nay,
the highest heaven. He who measured out the light in
the air. Who is the God to whom we shall offer our
sacrifice ?
“ 6. He to whom heaven and earth, standing firm by
His will, look up, trembling inwardly. He over whom the
rising sun shines forth. Who is the God to whom we shall
offer our sacrifice ?
“ 7. Wherever the mighty water-clouds went, where they
placed the seed and lit the fire, thence arose he who is the
sole life of the bright gods. Who is the God to whom we
shall offer our sacrifice ?
“ 8. He who by His might looked even over the water-
clouds, the clouds which gave strength and lit the sacrifice.
He who alone is God above all gods. Who is the God to
whom we shall offer our sacrifice ?
“ 9. May He not destroy us. He the Creator of the
earth, or He the Righteous who created the heaven. He
who also created the bright and mighty waters. Who is
the God to whom we shall offer our sacrifice ?”—Translated
by Professor Max Muller.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
It is recorded in a book on apparitions that in 1785 a “ Major R.” and five
cadets in Madras ■were ordered to proceed “up country” to join their
regiments. Major R. accidentally lost his life while on the journey by
falling into a well, and the five cadets, who did not know of his death, saw
his apparition running towards a boat on “ the river.” Can any of our
readers fully authenticate this by giving full names and addresses for
publication, for some of the details of the narrative are of considerable
scientific value.
Will be Published in a few Days.
Cloth. Crown 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings and Sixpence. Post Free.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES,
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
The book is full of evidence of Spirit-Identity.
The Superfine Edition, bound in half calf, Eight Shillings and Sixpence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some important Questions in Religious
Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience: Its Place
and Function — Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism — The
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Divine and Human
Elements.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Jost Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit¬
ualism, and setting forth his experiences.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
by
LISETTE MAEDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
Th« Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol. II. Treating of the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. 6d.
Yol. I. may bo had, price 10s. fid.; the work complete, 22s. fid.
CONTENTS:
Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro¬
ductory; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
Book II.—The Abnormal Action of the Mechanism.—Chapter 1. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future; 2. How to be Pursued; 3. Objections and
Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea;
6. How we Know; 7. Scientific Evidence ; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is ; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep; 4. The Seat of
Sleep ; 5. Of Dream ; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream ; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream ; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
Book IV.—The Phenomena of Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium ;
2. Insanity.
Book V.—The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism; 3. Natural Somnambulism; 4. Artificial Somnambulism;
5. The Phenomena of Artificial Somnambulism; 6. The Physiology of Som¬
nambulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI. — Supersensuous Perception. — Introduction ; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Sapersensuous Perception.
Book VH.—Trance.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The Phenomena of Trance;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII.—Psychism.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. Objections and Objectors ;
2. The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force ; 4. The Methods of Investigation; 5.
The Phenomena of Psychism ; fi. The Psychic ; 7. The Physiology of Psychic
Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence; 9. Phenomena of Psychism ; 10. More
Phenomena of Psychism ; 11. Other Phenomena of Psychism; 12. Communi¬
cated Phenomena ; 13. The Physiology and Psychology of Psychism.
Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up ; 2. Conclusions,
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London,
Just Published,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spintualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbuvy, London.
Price 3s. fid. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand)*
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. fid., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 18, 1879.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.8. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s "Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s,
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor o>
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Tols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,”
The Physician. VoL L Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ IL ,,
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformei „ IV. ,, .
The Thinker. ,, V. . jl . •
Magic Staff An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual . •
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil ...
Harbinger of Health . . . . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age .
Events In the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda) .
Philosophy of Special Providence , . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . «
Penetralia; Containing Hannonlal Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . .
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
. he Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician : or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . .
Morning Lectures .....
*. d.
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 8
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 8 0
. 7 6
. 2 6
. S 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7
. 7 •
. 5 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . .24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb SruiTuausi Newspaper . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . ,18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) , . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .16
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway. M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
hegge, D.D. . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology. 1 y John Fiske, M. A . 10
Awas-I-Hlna; or. A Voice from the Garges by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Ti an slated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
iilanatlon of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
)reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
hy Robert H. Oollyer. M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. ... 1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three veils. . . .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, prise
800 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence, post flee.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
now to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes It binding upon himself to ‘drop about' or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.'
Ill
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Othee
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given hy the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison's opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientiflc spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.''—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensioas of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible:”—>SowfA Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I The Materialisation of Spirits In the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter lit.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientiflc Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief In Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proof* of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier's Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Koss-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes. _
Chapter IX. Phenomena in America—^Testimony of Dr. C.
Bane, Mr. It. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Jtevu. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—-Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opiiuons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New —Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Loon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory —Guldenstubbe —James
MarUneau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVI11—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
In Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society and the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, fl 10s
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
M.A. (OXON), ’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubb&—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence,
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead.W. P.Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E' idence of Hon. R.Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayeuis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.B.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing In Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Tunes, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood. J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place In public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium-
shin of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XIX.—Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelina Yon Yay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A Burite.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —Do Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsncht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies. D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXI11.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the medinmship of
“M.A. Os.on.”
XXXV.—The Angel of SUenco. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Predicdon. ByAUceWorthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury _
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voles of Conscience. Bv Alex.
C aid cr.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII—Epigrams. By Gerald Massoy.
Xl.III.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. ByLisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.3.
XLV.—A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.: or six copies post free
for 0d.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 18, 1879
Iv
Price 6d.; post free, 74'd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
npHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
i. UALISM UPON THE SOCIA.L, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETr. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
The trapped MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers. — This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G. A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
11 A MARKED LIFEor, The Autobiography
-CjL j of a Clairvoyante. By Gipsy. (Sampson Low and
Co., publishers.) For sale at No, 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-
aquare. Price 5s.
AT MRS. PARKER’S, 66, WARWICK
STREET, BELGRAVE ROAD, LONDON, a Philo¬
sophical and Developing Circle is being formed. Those wishing
to join will please send in their names. Terms on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when condi¬
tions favour. Office hours from 12 to 5 o'clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D,
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
t te problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser# of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr.Cromweil Varley,Prof. Ziillner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIROLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugg'ery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
re not', they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speakhe should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,’' and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message? " Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany t-uch manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two siances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other Bitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARUISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacahac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the iviother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part %—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing ofthe past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key’* as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From 7me Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Itussell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay ofthe Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one ofthe most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology) ; a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m, 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
ProxuThe Dublin University Magazine
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name Is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose xmaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour ana satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shaoabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such, a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himselt.... The
poems arc all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If oui readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Westerly Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us ofthe Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers/’
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristo i Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unetpia
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious wdrks. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [A.B. An
irate member oj the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballact.•;,,, but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, ishound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C. -
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gbegoby, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
1 the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III ; — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions o
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—.Retro vision—-Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology. Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling's Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII;—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahaghet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
na—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbacn—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications o<
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan
ity. Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subieet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrait—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance. Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Wat
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII;—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced, without the Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes-.
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Cone udl
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bevebidqb & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W ALLEN, Ave
Marla-lane, London E.O,
