Begjstiked as a Newspaper.
^^YdSo^o^idS^ ^Ci^kcs<.
#Ib^st toif^ S^intedbrn m f&xmt §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard- des Capucines, and y, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street. •
No. 313.—(Vol. xiil—No. 8.) LONDON : FRIDAY, AUGFST 23, 1878.,
Contents.
The Interlinked Rings ... ....  i  85
Animal Intelligence and Comparative Psychology. By
George J, Romanes, M.A.. F.L.S.:—Comparative Psy¬
chology—The Ideas of Insects—The Ideas and Emo¬
tions of the Vertehrata—A Dog’s Horror of the Sup¬
posed “ Supernatural ’’—Judgment and Reason of
Animals—The Emotional Life of Animals—The Intel¬
lect of the Higher Animals Compared with the Stu¬
pidity of the Lower Savages—Infant Psychology—
The Psychology of Idiocy—The Mental Condition of
Uneducated Deaf Mutes—The Dawn of the Science of
Psychology...      ... 85
Hate more Developed than Love among Ants. By Sir John
Lubbock, Bart., M.P  ... ... 91
The Penumbral Region between the Known and the Un¬
known. By William Spottiswoode, M.A., D.O.L., F.R.S. 92
A Seance in Glasgow      92
Space of Four Dimensions 93
The Divining Rod ,v ... ...  94
A Catholic Priest on Spiritualism    95
Correspondence:—Opinions about Occultism and Spirit¬
ualism -    95
Paragraphs :—The Abolition of Cabinet Seances, 9G ; Weak
Witnesses; 96 ; Extraordinary Memory  96
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
KSTABUSHBD IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature. Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley’C.E., F.R.S. : Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness r His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeid (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy. Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon,M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Beniamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “Unorthodox London”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.Aj, LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Cxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
■ The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places:—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churcbyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Gorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pe«th: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
-Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MOkse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris,. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Offices of the National Association of Spiritualists will
be reopened on Monday next, 26th inst.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m. to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high-class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: Two Guineas a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Five shillings
a year includes membership, and an extra subscription of ten
shillings entitles one book from the lending library. Half-a-
Guinea a quarter entitles non-members to the use of the read¬
ing room and library, and also of the lending library.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign SpirDualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-st' eet, W.C,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LOUGHBOROTJSH-ROAD-NORTH, BRIXTON.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sbo.
MR. and MISS DIETZ having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (” One of
the most successful series ever known in London ”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—the
West of England, during the first week in October; Scotland,
during November ;r the Midland Counties, early in December.
Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route. For par¬
ticulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, London,
S.W. Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors. 
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. S July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment—Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home—The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, il, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, 23. No.
PSYCHISCEE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL {-SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, Wi
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Go., London.
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.d. 1860 to 1873),
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph I’Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed bv the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limn cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Brancb Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane. London. E.C.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can ba
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINT A NI & CO.
Show Rooms:—3, LudgateCircus Buildings,London, f.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c.. <fcc.
post free, seven stamps.
tSiRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
-I y 29 & 30, Southampton-build’ngs, Chancery-lane, W.Oi
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts. Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Rnsseli-street, London.  
IMPORTANT NOTICE.—MARGARET FOX
KANE, of the original Rochester Fox family, widow of
Dr. Kane, the first Arctic explorer in search of Sir John
Franklin, is staying with a friend at 2, Scarsdale Villas, Ken¬
sington, where she will give seances, or, when desired, will
give sittings elsewhere. At home from two till eight o’clock
on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aua. 23, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Ca'der, Esq.> 1, Hereford-square. South Kensington, S.W.
Vice- Presidents.
Blaekhurn. Tharles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman. Beniamin,! Bernard-villas,Unper Norwood.
Fltz-Oprald, Mrs . 19. Oambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fltz-Oerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Biixton, W.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdotisall.21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood Mrs.. 1S2, Warwick-square, S.W'.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, C. 0 , Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.O.^
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, StanhopeTempleman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Barkas, T. P„ Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Lanodev House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, '"rs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett. Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Bhiney, F A.. 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick. .T., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street. Liverpool.
Coffin, W H., 94. Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Orosiand, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., r.vnwood. Southern-hill, Reading.
Editiands, T. H , 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C , Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fiiton. R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S w.
Glondinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sbooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 88. Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss. 20, Deiamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt. Miss Hannah. 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bart . Lam port-hall, Northampton.
,Toad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon. M 1 C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred E., s, Parit-road, Plaistow, Essex,
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltbv, Mrs.. 61, Oower-'treet, W.C,
March, R. A.. 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J J , F.lm Tree-terrace, XJttoxetcr-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newhonid. Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., n, Mitre-coarr, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8. Eassett-road. Da.lst.on, E.
Pearson, C., 15. Harper-street, Bloomshnrv, W.C.
Piekerggtll, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Relihers, Christian. 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Stra ■ bridge, Geo. Nelson,84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Re.lcliffe-gavdens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morcll.30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Oranvllle-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Trcdwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Clsverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avemie-road,Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale. W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-squai-e, AY.
White, J., Mean wood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square. West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman. Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Witha'l, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wlthali, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square. South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
3, W, Gray, Esq. O. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nichdlas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.I. de i’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guidenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassois y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
W. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York. H.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. La Tresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearyehand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Myliie, Esq , Behepa, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten. San Francisco, IT.S.A.
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molsfraat, The Hague. Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C- Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. MaxmiAfan Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, E?q., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditoon, Esq.. M.P., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons. Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Antheime Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York;, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athepee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epc-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgra*ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chlaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Trcmont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Splrlter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasso, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle do Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs,
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d, London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
■WOBKS BY THE COUNTESS OP CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
(fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
rpHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
L UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
  Price Is. 
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.'
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED, By Fredk. A, Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London Simpkin, mabshall <fe Co. 
EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened," being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientiflo subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &e., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
TI>RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
jLJP tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr, Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. a E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from; 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.  
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAGE. BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gent,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
‘R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 178, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
|U W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englofleld-road, Kings-
land, N. 
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &e., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
. and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Boreugh. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
RS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
rTIHE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
JL ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
I,S. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Olairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms ■
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
iTiHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
v_y ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
"ANTED, by an Old Spiritualist, a Widow
of Fifty, a Situation as Cook or Housekeeper.—Ad¬
dress, Lydia, 27, Ambley-road, Harrow-road, Paddington,
London.
Price 6s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems loere given.
CONTENTS.
Pakt I.
T. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. L»ve and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX. Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in conneetion with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts aud phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
ARE OLD BOOKS on ALCHEMY,
\) MAGIO, and ASTROLOGY, for sale.—Send stamped
envelope to Mr. Halsb, 40, Addison-road, Kensington, London.
THE INTERLINKED RINGS.
Mb. Gillis sends word to Mr. Christian Eeimers that M.
Aksakof and Professor Boutlerof are away from St. Peters¬
burg ; that he has had the grain of the rings laid bare, and
will send enlarged photographs which he says “will
sufficiently prove the genuineness of the phenomenon.”
What is wanted is a certificate properly drawn up and
signed by a few scientific men, to the effect that they
have examined the bare grain of each ring under the
microscope, and that the rings contain no artificial joint.
A botanist and zoologist should certify of what wood and
ivory the rings are made, and the botanist should specially
report whether there is any abnormal grain in the wood,
such as would be produced by slow growth round the ivory
ring, on the principle pointed out by Sir Charles Isham.
Until this documentary evidence is forthcoming the fact
of the interlinking will not be sufficiently well established
for presentation as an unquestionable phenomenon to the
outside world, nor will it till then be unreservedly accepted
by Spiritualists. The delay in such authentication is
probably due to its being vacation season, and most of the
professors at Leipzig and St. Petersburg absent from the
Universities,
ANIMAL INTELLIGENCE AND COMPARATIVE
PSYCHOLOGY*
BY GEORGE J. ROMANES, M.A., F.L.S.
Mr. President, My Lords, Ladies, and Gentlemen,—
“Animal Intelligence” is a subject which has always been of
considerable interest to philosophical minds; but, as most
of you are probably aware, the interest attaching to this
subject has of late years been greatly increased by the
significance which it has acquired in relation to the theory
of “ Descent.” The study of “Animal Intelligence ” being
thus, without question, fraught with high importance to the
science of our time, in adducing before this illustrious
assembly some of the results which that study has yielded,
I shall endeavour to treat them in a manner purely scientific.
I shall try, as much as possible, to avoid mere anecdote,
except in so far as it is desirable that I should put you in
possession of a few typical facts to illustrate the various
principles which I shall haye occasion to expound. I
shall seek to render apparent the more important of the
issues which the subject, as a whole, involves, as well as the
considerations by which alone these issues can be legiti¬
mately settled. I shall attempt to. state my own views with
the utmost candour; and if I shall appear to ignore any
arguments opposed to the conclusions at which I shall
arrive, it will only be because I believe those arguments to
admit of easy, refutation. And, in order that my exposition
may be sufficiently comprehensive, I shall endeavour to point
out the relations that subsist between the intelligence of j
animals and intelligence of man. The aim and scope of |
the present lecture will therefore be to discuss, as fully as
time permits, the facts and the principles of “ Comparative
Psychology.”
As human intelligence is the only order of intelligence
with which we are directly acquainted, and as it is, more- j
over, the highest order of intelligence known to science, we !
may most conveniently adopt it as our standard of com¬
parison. I shall therefore begin by briefly detailing those
principles of human psychology which we shall afterwards j
find to be of the most essential importance in their bearings
on the subject which I have undertaken to discuss.
When I allow my eyes to travel over this vast assembly, j
my mind receives, through their instrumentality, a countless I
* An evening lecture read before the British Association for the Advancement of Science, !
Dublin, 1878, under the presidency of Mr. William Spottiswoode, P.B.S, i
number of impressions. So far as these impressions enter
into the general stream of my consciousness, they constitute
what are called perceptions. Suppose, now, that I were to*
close my eyes, and to fix my attention on the memory of
some particular perception which I had just experienced—
say the memory of some particular face. This mental image
of a previous perception would be what is called an idea.
Lastly, suppose that I were to analyse a number of the faces
which I had perceived, I should find that, although no two
of them are exactly alike, they all bear a certain general
resemblance to one another. Thus, from the multitude of
faces which I now perceive, it becomes possible for my mind
to abstract from them all the essential qualities of a face as
a face; and such a mental abstraction of qualities would
then constitute what I might call my abstract idea of a face
in general, as distinguished from my concrete idea, or
memory, of any face in particular.
Thus, then, we have three stages : 1st, that of imme¬
diate perception; 2nd, that of- ideal representation of
particular objects; and, 3rd, that of a generalised concep¬
tion, or abstract idea, of a number of qualities which a
whole class of objects agree in possessing. It will be con¬
venient to split the latter division into two subdivisions, viz.,
abstract ideas which are sufficiently simple to be developed
without the aid of language, and abstract ideas which are
so complex as not to admit of development without the aid
| of language. As an instance of the former class of abstract
j ideas we may take the idea of food. This is aroused in our
| minds by the feeling of hunger; and while the idea when
thus aroused is clearly quite independent of language, it is
| no less clearly what is called an abstract idea. For it is by
| no means necessary that the idea of food which is present
I to the mind should be the idea of some special kind of food;
| on the contrary, the idea is usually that of food general, and
I this idea it is which usually prompts us to seek for any kind
I of food in 'particular. Simple abstract ideas, therefore, may
I be formed without the assistance of language ; and for this
reason they are comprised within what Lewes has called “the
| logic of feelings.” But abstract ideas of a more elaborated
type can only be formed by the help of words, and are,
I therefore, comprised within what Lewes has called “ the
I logic of signs.” The manner in which language thus
! operates in the formation of highly abstract ideas is easily
| explained. Because we see that a great many objects pre-
| sent a certain quality in common, such as redness, we find
it convenient to give that quality a name ; and, having done
this, we speak of redness in the abstract, or as standing
apart from any particular object. Our word “ redness ” then
serves as a sign or symbol of a quality as apart from any
particular object of which it may happen to be a quality;
and having made this symbolical abstraction in the case of
a simple quality, such as redness, we can afterwards com¬
pound it with other symbolical abstractions, and so on until
we arrive at verbal symbols of more and more complex
qualities, as well as qualities further and further removed
from immediate perception. By the help of these symbols,
therefore, we climb into higher and higher regions of abstrac¬
tion; by thinking in verbal signs, we think, as it were,
with the semblance of thoughts, and by combining these
signs in various ways, and giving the resulting compounds
distinctive names, we are able to condense into single words,
of signs, an enormous amount of meaning. So that, just as
in mathematics, the symbols which are employed contain,
in an easily manipulated form, the whole meaning of
a long calculation, so in all other kinds of reasoning
the symbols which we call words contain, in an ab¬
breviated form, vast bodies of signification. Indeed, any
one who investigates this subject cannot fail to become
eonvinced that it is wholly impossible to over estimate the
]L hi ft xS flfij nifo jljuijtltmKm
Ko. 313.“"Volujvie Thirteen; Number EiQht.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 23rd, 1878.
86
THE SPIRITUALIST.
value of language as thus the handmaid'of thought; for, as
we have seen, in the absence of language it would be
impossible for thought to rise above the very simplest of
abstract ideas, while in the presence of language it becomes
possible for us consciously to predicate qualities, and so at
last to feel that we are conscious of our own consciousness.
So much, then, for our classification of ideas. We have,
first, simple ideas, or ideas of particular perceptions; and,
secondly, abstract ideas, or ideas of general qualities; and
the latter class I have subdivided into those which may be
developed by simple feelings, and those which can only be
developed by the aid of signs.
Now, with regard to ideas themselves, I need only add
that they are the psychological units which compose the
whole structure intellectual. They constitute, as it were,
the raw material of thought, which may be elaborated by
the faculty into various products of thought. Once formed,
they present an essential property of occurring in con-
tcatenated series ; so that the occurrence of one idea deter¬
mines that of another with which it has been previously
joined. This principle of the association of ideas, mani¬
fested as it is by the ultimate units of intellectual structure,
is by far the most important principle in psychology: it is
the principle which renders possible all the faculties of
mind—memory, instinct, judgment, reason, emotion, con¬
science, and volition.
COMPAKATXVE PSYCHOLOGY.
We are nowin a positionto investigate the facts of Compara¬
tive Psychology ; and, in order to do so thoroughly, I shall
begin by considering what I may term the psychological basis
of mind. There is no reasonable doubt that all mental pro¬
cesses are accompanied by nervous processes; or, to adopt
the convenient terms of Professor Huxley, that psychosis
is invariably associated with neurosis. The nature of this
association, accordingto the best lights of our present know¬
ledge, is probably as follows :—Nerve-tissue consists of two
elementary parts—viz., nerve-cells and nerve-fibres. The
nerve-cells are usually collected into rggregates, which are
called nerve-centres, and to these nerve-centres bundles of
nerve-fibres come and go. The incoming nerve-fibres
serve to conduct stimuli or impressions to the cells in the
nerve-centre; and when the cells thus receive a stimulus
or impression, they liberate a discharge of nervous energy,
which then courses down the out going nerve-fibres, to be
distributed either to other nerve-centres or else to muscles.
It is in this way that nerve-centres are able to act in har¬
mony with one another, and so to co-ordinate the action of
the muscles over which they preside. This fundamental
principle of neurosis is what physiologists call the principle
of reflex action; and you will perceive that all it requires
for its manifestation is an incoming nerve, a nerve-centre,
and an outgoing nerve, which together constitute what has
been called a nervous arc. Now there can be no reasonable
doubt that in the complex structure of the brain one ner¬
vous arc is connected with another nervous arc, and this
with another almost ad infinitum; and there can be equally
little doubt that processes of thought are accompanied by
nervous discharges taking place now in this arc and now in
that one, according as the nerve-centre in each arc is excited
to discharge its influence by receiving a discharge from some
of the other nerve-arcs with which it is connected. Again,
it is almost certain that the more frequently a nervous dis¬
charge takes place through a given group of nervous arcs,
the more easy will it be for subsequent discharges to take
place along the same routes—these routes having been thus
rendered more permeable to the passage of subsequent dis¬
charges. So that in this physiological principle of reflex
action we no doubt have the objective side of the psychologi¬
cal principle of the association of ideas. For it may be
granted that a series of discharges taking place through the
same group of nervous arcs will always be attended with
the occurrence of the same series of ideas ; and it may be
further granted that the previous passage of a series of dis¬
charges through any group of nervous arcs, by making the
route more permeable, will have the effect of making sub¬
sequent discharges pursue the same course when started
from the same origin. And if these two propositions be
granted, it follows that the tendency of ideas to recur in the
Aug. 23, 1878.
I | same order as that in which they have previously occurred,
j | is merely a psychological expression of the physiological
j ] fact that lines of reflex discharge become more and more
| I permeable by use. We thus see that the most fundamental
j 11 of psychological principles—the association of ideas—is
| i merely an obverse expression of the most fundamental
| I neurological principles—reflex action. But here we have an
-\\\ important qualification to take into account. All reflex
| I action, or neurosis, is not attended with ideation, or psychosis,
j j In our own organisation, for instance, it is only cerebral
| | reflexes which are so attended; and even among cerebral
| j reflexes there is good reason to believe that the greater
! || number of them are not accompanied by conscious ideation;
||] for analysis shows that it is only those cerebral discharges
111 which have taken place comparatively seldom, and the
I I passage of which is therefore comparatively slow, that are
j ! accompanied by any ideas,’ or changes of consciousness.
| | The more habitual any action becomes, the less conscious do
11] we require to be of its performance; it is, as we say, per-
| j formed automatically, or without thought. Now it is of
j I great importance thus to observe that consciousness only
I j emerges when cerebral reflexes are flowing along compara-
| ! tively unaccustomed channels, and therefore that cerebral
| )! discharges which at first were accompanied by definite ideas
] (| may, by frequent repetition, cease to be accompanied by any
| | ideas. It is of importance to observe this fact, because it
i |! serves to explain the origin of a number of animal instincts,
j 11 These instincts must originally have been of an intelligent
! ] nature; but the actions which they prompted, having
! | through successive generations been frequently repeated,
| j became at last organised into a purely mechanical reflex, and
| | therefore now appear as actions which we call purely auto-
| 11 matic, or blindly instinctive. Thus, for instance, the
| 11 scraping of graminivorous birds in earth and stones was no
| I doubt originally an intelligent action, performed with the
| | conscious purpose of uncovering seeds; but by frequent
i 11 repetition through successive generations the action has now
I | become blindly instinctive. This is shown by the following
| I experiment. Dr. Allen Thomson tells me that he hatched
i I out some chickens on a carpet, where he kept them for
| ] several days. They showed no inclination to scrape, because
| j the stimulus supplied by the carpet to the soles of their feet
| | was of too novel a character to call into action the heredi-
| | tary instinct; but when Dr. Thomson sprinkled a little
I | gravel on the carpet, and so supplied the appropriate or
| ! customary stimulus, the chickens immediately began their
j | scraping movements. Yet, for aught that these chickens
| | can have known to the contrary, there was as good a chance
j j of finding seeds in the carpet as in the thin layer of gravel,
i ) | And numberless other cases might be given to prove that
| I animals acquire instincts by frequently repeating intelligent
I 11 actions, just as we ourselves acquire, even in our individual
! ) | lifetime, an instinct to wind our watches—an instinct which
| | may become so pronounced as to assert itself even when a
i | man is in the profound unconsciousness of apoplectic coma,
i | Thus we are able to explain all the more complicated
| | among animal instincts as cases of u lapsed intelligence.”
| ! But, on the other hand, a great many of the more simple
> instincts were probably evolved in a more simple way.
| 11 That is to say, they have probably never been of an intelli-
| (j gent character, but have begun as merely accidental adjust-
i > I ments of the organism to its surroundings, and have then
I | been laid hold upon by natural selection and developed into
| j automatic reflexes. Take, for instance, the action of so-
| j called shamming dead,” which is performed by certain
| j insects and allied animals when in the presence of danger.
I | That this is not a case of intelligent action we may feel quite
| 11 sure, not only because it would be absurd to suppose that
! | insects could have any such highly abstract ideas as those of
| j death and its conscious simulation, but also because Mr.
| 11 Darwin tells me that he once made a number of observations
| 11 on this subject, and in no case did he find that the attitude
| j | in which the animal shammed dead resembled that in which
| ) | the animal really died. All, therefore, that “ shamming
| 11 dead” amounts to is an instinct to remain motionless, and
I I therefore inconspicuous, in the presence of enemies ; and it
I T is easy to see that this instinct may have been developed by
| j | natural selection without ever having been of an intelligent
1 1 nature—those individuals which were least inclined to run
Aua. 23, 1878.
THE SriRITXJALIST.
87
away from enemies being preserved rather than those which
rendered themselves conspicuous by movement.
So that we thus see how animal instincts may arise in
either of two different ways ; for, on the one hand, they may
arise from the performance of actions which were originally
intelligent, but which by frequent repetition have become
automatic; and, on the other hand, they may arise from
survival of the fittest preserving actions which, although
never intelligent, yet happen to have been of benefit to
the animals which first chanced to perform them. But now
let it be observed that although there is a great difference
between these two kinds of instincts, if regarded psycholo¬
gically, there is no difference between them if regarded
physiologically ; for, regarded physiologically, both kinds of
instincts are merely expressions of the fact that particular
nerve-cells and fibres have been set apart to perform their
reflexes automatically—that is, without being accompanied
by intelligence.
THE IDEAS OP INSECTS.
So much, then, for what I have called the physiological
basis of mind. Passing on now to our review of “ Com¬
parative Psychology,” the first animals in which, so far as I
can ascertain, we may be quite sure that reflex action is
accompanied by ideation, are the insects. For Mr. Darwin
has observed that bees remember the position of flowers
which they have only several times visited, even though the
flowers be concealed by intervening houses, &c. Sir John
Lubbock also has shown that, after a very fero individual
experiences, bees are able to establish a definite association
between particular colours on paper and food; and further
that, after a very fero lessons, a bee may be taught to find
its way out of a glass jar. These observations would seem
to prove that the grade of intelligence is higher in some
articulata than it is among the lower vertebrata. For many
of you will probably remember the experiment of Professor
Mobius, which proved that a pike requires three months to
establish an association of ideas between particular kinds of
prey and the fact of their being protected by an invisible
wall. This fact was proved by the pike repeatedly dashing j (
its nose against a glass partition in its tank in fruitless j
efforts to catch minnows which were confined on the other j
side of the partition. At the end of three months, however, j
the requisite association was established, and the pike having j
learned that its efforts were of no use, ceased to continue |
them. The sheet of glass was then removed ; but the now j
firmly established association of ideas never seems to have j
become disestablished, for the pike never afterwards attacked j
the minnows, though it fed voraciously on all other kinds of j
fish. From which we see that a pike is very slow in form- !
ing his ideas, and no less slow in again uuforming them— j
thus resembling many respectable members of a higher |
community, who spend one half of their lives in assimilating !
the obsolete ideas of their forefathers, and through the other j
half of their lives stick to these ideas as to the only possible j
truths; they can never learn when the hand of science has | j
removed a glass partition. j
As regards the association of ideas by the higher verte- i
brated animals, it is only necessary to say that in all these j (
animals, as in ourselves, this principle of association is the j
fundamental principle of their psychology; that in the j
more intelligent animals associations are quickly formed, j
and when once formed are very persistent; and, in general, j
that so far as animal ideation goes, the laws to which it is j
subject are identical with those under which our own |
ideation is performed. j)
THE IDEAS AND EMOTIONS OF THE VERTEBRATA—A DOG’S HORROR OF THE j )
SUPPOSED “SUPERNATURAL.” |)
Let us, then, next ask, How far does animal ideation go ? j
The answer is most simple, although it is usually given in a j (
most erroneous form. It is usually said that animals do not 11
possess the faculty of abstraction, and therefore that the dis- ] |
tinction between animal intelligence and human intelligence j (
consists in this—that animals are not able to form abstract j j
ideas. But this statement is most erroneous. You will re- ! >
member the distinction which I previously laid down j
between abstract ideas that may be developed by simple ||
feelings, such as hunger, and abstract ideas that can only be |i
developed by the aid of language. Well, remembering this j
distinction, we shall find that the only difference between W
j animal intelligence and human intelligence consists in this
j —that animal intelligence is unable to elaborate that class
j of abstract ideas, the formation of which depends on the
j faculty of speech. In other words, animals are quite as
| able to form abstract ideas as we are, if under abstract
ideas we include general ideas of qualities which are
| so far simple as not to require to be fixed in our thoughts
! by names. For instance, if I see a fox prowling about a
| farmyard, I cannot doubt that he has been led by hunger
j to visit a place where he has a general idea that a number
| of good things are to be fallen in with, just as I my-
| self am led by a similar impulse to visit a restaurant. And,
| to take only one other instance, there can be no question
j that animals have a generalised conception of cause and
I effect. For example, I had a setter dog which was greatly
j afraid of thunder. One day a number of apples were being
; shot upon the wooden floor of an apple-room, and as each
i bag of apples was shot it produced through the rest of the
j house a noise resembling that of distant thunder. My dog
| became terror-stricken at the sound ; but as soon as I brought
| him to the apple-room and showed him the true cause of the
noise, he became again buoyant and cheerful as usual.
Another dog which I had used to play at tossing dry bones
to give them the appearance of life. As an experiment, I
one day attached a fine thread to a dry bone before giving
him the latter to play with : and after he had tossed the
bone about for a while as usual, I stood a long way off and
slowly began to draw it away from him: so soon as he per¬
ceived that the bone was really moving on its own account
his whole demeanour changed, and rushing under a sofa he
waited horror-stricken to watch the uncanny spectacle of a
dry bone coming to life. I have also greatly frightened this
dog by blowing soap-bubbles along the floor; one of these
he summoned courage enough to touch with his paw, but as
soon as it vanished he ran out of the room terrified at so
mysterious a disappearance. Lastly, I have put this dog into
a paroxysm of fear by taking him into a room alone and silently
making a series of horrible grimaces. Although I had never
in my life hurt this dog, he became greatly frightened at my
unusual behaviour, which so seriously conflicted with his
general idea of uniformity in matters psychological. And I
could give numberless other instances of the formation by
animals of general conceptions, or abstract ideas.
JUDGMENT AND REASON OF ANIMALS.
Of course in thus claiming for animals the power of form¬
ing general conceptions, I mean only such general conceptions
as can be arrived at by the logic of feelings. So far, then,
as the logic of feelings can carry them, I maintain that the
intellectual operations of animals are indistinguishable from
those of ourselves. Having thus shown that animals possess
the faculty of abstraction, I shall now go on to show that
they possess the faculties both of judgment and of reason.
My friend Dr. Bea, the well-known traveller and naturalist,
knew a dog in Orkney which used to accompany his master
to church on alternate Sundays. To do so he had to swim a
channel about a mile wide ; and before taking to the water
he used to run about a mile to the north when the tide was
flowing, and a nearly equal distance to the south when the
tide was ebbing, u almost invariably calculating his distance
so well that he landed at the nearest point to the church.”
In his letter to me, Dr. Rea continues, “How the dog
managed to calculate the strength of the. spring and neap
tides at their various rates of speed, and always to swim at
the proper angle, is most surprising.”
So much, then, for judgment. For some good instances
of reasoning in animals I am also indebted to Dr. Rea.
Desiring to obtain some Arctic foxes he set various kinds of
traps; but, as the foxes knew these traps from previous
experience, he was unsuccessful. Accordingly he set a kind
of trap with which the/oxes in that part of the country were
not acquainted. This consisted of a loaded gun set upon a
stand pointing at the bait. A string connected the trigger
of the gun with the bait, so that when the fox seized the bait
he discharged the gun, and thus committed suicide. In this
arrangement the gun was separated from the bait by a
distance of about 30 yards, and the string which connected
the trigger with the bait was concealed throughout nearly its
whole distance in the snow. The gun-trap thus set wa$
88
successful in killing one fox, but never in killing a second ;
for the foxes afterwards adopted either of two devices whereby
to secure the bait without injuring themselves. One of these
devices was to bite through the string at its exposed part
near the trigger, and the other device was to burrow up to
the bait through the snow at right angles to the line of fire,
so that, although in this way they discharged the gun, they
escaped with perhaps only a pellet or two in the nose. Now
both of these devices exhibited a wonderful degree of what
I think must fairly be called power of reasoning. I have
carefully interrogated Dr. Rea on all the circumstances of
the case, and he tells me that in that part of the world traps
are never set with strings : so that there can have been no
special association in the fox’s mind between strings and
traps. Moreover, after the death of fox number one, the
track on the snow showed that fox number two, notwith¬
standing the temptation offered by the bait, had expended a
great deal of scientific observation on the gun before he under¬
took to sever the cord. Lastly, with regard to burrowing at
right angles to the line of fire, Dr. Rea justly deemed this
so extraordinary a circumstance, that he repeated the
experiment a number of times, in order to satisfy himself
that the direction of the burrowing was really to be attributed
to thought and not to chance.
THE EMOTIONAL LIFE OF ANIMALS.
I could give several other unequivocal instances of reason¬
ing on the part of animals which I have myself observed ;
but time does not permit of my stating them. Passing on,
therefore, to the emotional life of animals, we find that this
is very slightly, if at all, developed in the lower orders, but
remarkably well developed in the higher; that isi say, the
emotions are vivid and easily excited, although they are
shallow and evanescent. They thus differ from those of
most civilised men in being more readily aroused and more
impetuous while they last, though leaving behind them but
little trace of their occurrence. As regards the particular
emotions which occur among the higher animals, I can
affirm, from my^own observations, that all the following give
unmistakable tokens of their presence:—Fear, affection,
passionateness, pugnacity, jealousy, sympathy, pride, re¬
verence, emulation, shame, hate, curiosity, revenge, cruelty,
emotion of the ludicrous, and emotion of the beautiful.
Now this list includes nearly all the human emotions, except
those which refer to religion and to the perception of the
sublime. These, of course, are necessarily absent in animals,
because they depend upon ideas of too abstract a nature to
be reached by the mind when unaided by the logic of signs.
Time prevents me from here detailing any of my observa¬
tions or experiments with regard to the emotional life of
animals, so I will pass on at once to the faculty of Conscieuoe..
Of course the moral sense as it occurs in ourselves involves
ideas of high abstraction, so that in animals we cans only
expect to meet with a moral sense in a very rudimentary
form; and, therefore, even if it is true that no indications,
of such a sense are to be met with in animals, the fact would
not establish any difference in kind between animal intelli¬
gence and human. But I am inclined to believe that in
highly intelligent, highly sympathetic, and tolerably well-
treated animals, the germs of a moral sense become
apparent. To give two instances. I once shut up a Skye
terrier in a room by himself while I went to a friend’s house.
The dog must have been thrown into a violent passion at
being left behind, for when I returned I found that he had
torn the window-curtains to shreds. He was in great joy at
seeing me; but as soon as I picked up one of the torn
shreds of the curtains the animal gave a howl and ran
screaming up the staircase. Now this dog was never
chastised in his life, so that I can only explain his conduct
as an expression of the remorse which he sufiered at having
done in a passion what he knew would cause me annoyance.
So far as I can interpret the facts, his sympathetic affection
for me, coupled with the memory of his misdeeds, created
in his mind a genuine feeling of repentance.
The other instance I have to narrate occurred with the
same terrier. Only once in his life was he ever known te
steal; and on this occasion, when very hungry, he took a
cutlet from a table and carried it under a sofa. I saw him
perform this act of larceny, but pretended not to have done
Aim. 23, 1878.
ij so, and for a number of minutes he remained under the
sofa with his feelings of hunger struggling against his
I feelings of duty. At last the latter triumphed; for he
brought the stolen cutlet and laid it at my feet. Immedi-
{ ately after doing so he again ran under the sofa, and from
| this retreat no coaxing could draw him. Moreover, when I
| patted his head he turned away his face in a ludicrously
conscience-stricken manner. Now I regard this instance as
particularly valuable from the fact that the terrier in ques-
I tion had never been beaten, and hence that it cannot have
j been fear of bodily pain which prompted these actions. On
| the whole, therefore, I can only suppose that we have in
j these actions evidence of as high a development of the'
ethical faculty as is attainable by the logic of feelings when
unassisted by the logic of signs—that is to say, a grade very
j nearly, if not quite, as high as that with which we meet in
j low savages, young children, many idiots, and uneducated
deaf-mutes.
This allusion to savages, children, idiots, and deaf mutes,
leads me to the next division of my subject.
| THE INTELLECT OF THE HIGHER ANIMALS COMPARED WITH THE STUPIDITY
OF THE LOWER SAVAGES.
St. George Mivart has said that an interesting book might
be written on the stupidity of animals. I am inclined to think
■ that a still more interesting book might be written on the
stupidity of savages. For it is a matter of not the least interest
| how much stupidity any number of animals may present, so
long as some animals present sufficient sagacity to supply data
for the general theory of evolution; while, on the other
hand, it is of the utmost importance for the science of this
century to ascertain the lowest depths in which the mind of
man is known to exist as human. Now there is no doubt
that the interval which separates the most degraded savage
from the most intelligent animal is, psychologically con¬
sidered, enormous ; but, enormous as it is, I cannot see any
evidence to show that the gulf may not have been bridged
over during the countless ages of the past. Abstract ideas
among savages are mostly confined to such as may be formed
by the logic of feelings; so that, for instance, according to
the observations and the judgment of Mr. Francis Galton,
the ideas of number which are presented by the lowest
savages are certainly in no degree superior to those which
are presented by the higher animals. Such ideas as savages
possess seem to be mainly those which, as in animals, are
due to special associations. On this account there is in
them, as in animals, a remarkable tendency to act in accord¬
ance with performed habits, rather than to strike out
improved modes of action. On this account, also, there is,,
as in animals, a strong tendency to imitation as distinguished
from origination. Again, as in animals, so in savages, the -
reflective power is of an extremely undeveloped character,,
and quite incapable of sustained application. And, lastly,,
the emotions of savages, as of animals, are vivid, although,,
as contrasted with the emotions of civilised man, they arei
in a marked degree more fitful, impetuous, shallow, and
transitory. So that altogether I think the lowest savages;
supply us with a most valuable transition stage between
mind as we know it ourselves, and mind as we see it mani¬
fested by the higher animals.
INFANT PSYCHOLOGY.
With regard to children, it is to be expected, on the
general theory of evolution by inheritance, that if we were
attentively to study the order in which their mental faculties
develop, we should find that the historical sequence is, as it
were, a condensed epitome of the order in which these
faculties were developed during the evolution of the human
species. And this expectation is fairly well realised. Very
young children present only those lower faculties of mind
which in animals we call instincts. With advancing age,
the first indication of true intelligence seems to consist in
the power of forming special associations. , Memory thus
appears early in life ; and long before a child is able to
speak, it links together in thought ideas of objects which it
finds to be associated in fact. Again, the emotions begin
to assert their presence at a very early period, and attain a
high degree of development before any of the character¬
istically human faculties can be said to have appeared.
Moreover, in young children we meet with nearly all the
fflS SPIRITUALISE
Aug. 23,1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
89
emotions which I have named as occurring in animals, and
their general character is much of the same kind. In more
advanced childhood the emotional life of children more re¬
sembles that of savages. With regard to the more purely
intellectual faculties, language is largely intelligible to a
child long before it is itself able to articulate; but soon
after it is able to articulate, the faculty of abstracting
qualities and classifying objects by the aid of signs begins
its course of development. Thus, for instance, I have lately
seen a child who belongs to one of the best of living
observers, and who is just beginning to speak. This child
called a duck u quack,” and by special association it also
called water e( quack.” By an appreciation of the re¬
semblance of qualities, it next extended the term “quack”
to denote all birds and insects on the one hand, and all fluid
substances on the other. Lastly, by a still more delicate
appreciation of resemblance, the child eventually called all j
coins “quack,” because on the back of a French sou it had |
once seen the representation of an eagle. Hence to this
child the sign “ quack,” from having originally had a very
specialised meaning, became more and more extended in its
signification, until it now serves to designate such apparently
diflerent objects as “fly,” “wine,” and “shilling.” And
as in this process we have the initiation of the logic of
signs, so we have in it the potentiality of the most abstract
thought. Accordingly, soon after a child begins to speak,
we find that reason of a properly human kind begins to be
developed.
Upon the whole, then, the study of infant psychology
yields just the kind of results which the general theory of
evolution would lead us to expect. But in comparing the
intelligence of a young child with that of an adult animal
we are met with this difficulty—that as the bodily powers of
children at so immature an age are so insufficiently de¬
veloped, the mind is not able, as in the case of animals, to
accumulate experiences of life. In order, therefore, to obtain
a fair parallel, we should require a human being whose mental
powers have become arrested in their development at an early
age, while the bodily powers have continued to develop to
mature age, so serving to supply the aborted human intelli¬
gence with full experiences of life. Now, the nearest ap¬
proach that we have to these conditions is to be found in
the case of idiots. Accordingly, in anticipation of this lec¬
ture, I have sent a table of questions to all the leading
authorities on idiocy, and the answers which I have obtained
display a very substantial agreement. Through the kind¬
ness of those gentlemen I have also been able to examine
personally a number of the patients who are under their
charge. In particular I have to express my obligations to
Drs. Beech, Crichton Browne, Langdon Down, Ireland,
Maudsley, Savage, and Shuttlewortb. On the present
occasion I can only pause to state the leading facts which
have been elicited by this inquiry.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF IDIOCY.
As there are all degrees of idiocy, the object of my inquiry
was to determine the order in which the various mental
faculties become enfeebled and disappear as we descend from
the higher to the lower grades of imbecility. On the general
theory of evolution we should expect that in such a descend¬
ing scale the characteristically human, or the more recently
developed, faculties should be first to disappear, while those
faculties which man shares with the lower animals should
be more persistent. And this expectation I have found to be
fairly well realised. Beginning from below, the first dawn of
intelligence in the ascending scale of idiots, as in the
ascending scale of animals, is invariably to be found in tbe
power of associating simple concrete ideas. Thus there are
few idiots so destitute of intelligence that the appearance of
food does not arouse in their mind the idea of eating; and,
as we ascend in the scale idiotic, we find the principle of
association progressively extending its influence, so that the
mind is able, not only t) establish a greater and greater
number of special associations, but also to retain those
associations with an ever-increasing power of memory. In
the case of the higher idiots, as in. the case of the higher
animals, it is surprising in how considerable a degree the
faculty of special association is developed, notwithstanding
the dwarfed condition of all the higher faculties. Thus, fo-
instance, it is not a difficult matter to teach a clever idiot
to play dominoes, in the same way as a clever dog has been
taught to play dominoes, viz., by teaching special associa¬
tions between the optical appearance of the facets which the
game requires to be brought together. But |the idiot may
be quite as unable as the dog to play at any game which
involves the understanding of a simple rationale, such, for
instance, as draughts. And similarly many of the higher
idiots have been taught to recognise, by special association,
the time on a watch; but it is remarkable that the high
power of forming special associations which this fact implies
occurs in the same minds which are unable to perform so
simple a calculation as this :—If it is ten minutes to three,
how many minutes is it past two ? Thus, it will be seen
that among idiots as among animals, the faculty of forming
special associations between concrete ideas attains a com¬
paratively high degree of development. Let us then next
turn to the faculties of abstraction and reason. Prepared
as I was to expect these faculties to be the most deficient,
I have been greatly surprised at the degree in which they
are so. As regards the power of forming abstract ideas which
depend on the logic of signs, it is only among the very
highest class of idiots that any such power is apparent at
all; and even here it is astonishing in how very small a
degree this power is exhibited. There seems, for instance,
to be an almost total absence of right or wrong as such ; so
that the faculty of conscience, properly so called, can rarely
be said to be present. Most of the higher idiots, indeed,
experience a feeling of remorse on offending the sympathies
of those whom they love, just as did my dog on tearing the
window-curtains; but I have been able to obtain very little
evidence of any true idiot whose action is prompted by any
idea of right and wrong in the abstract, or as apart from the
idea of approbation and disapprobation of those whose good
feeling he values.
Again, the faculty of reason is dwarfed to the utmost—
so much so that the investigator is most of all astonished
at the poverty of ratioqal power which may be displayed by
a human mind that in most other respects seems well
developed. I can only wait to give you one example, but
it may be taken as typical. A boy fourteen years of age,
belonging to the highest class of undoubted idiots, could
scarcely be called feeble-minded as regards many of his
faculties. Thus, for instance, his powers of memory were
above the average, so that he had no difficulty in learning
Latin, French, &c. Moreover, he could tell you by mental
calculation the product of two numbers into two numbers,
such as 35 by 35, or of one number into three numbers,
such as the number of days in nine years. His powers of
mental calculation were, therefore, quite equal to those of
any average boy of his age. Yet he was not able to answer
any question that involved the simplest act of reason. Thus,
when I asked him, how many sixpences there are in a
sovereign, he was quite unable to answer. Although he knew
that there are two sixpences in a shilling, and twenty
shillings in a sovereign, and could immediately have said that
twice twenty are forty, yet he could not perform the
simple act of inference which the question involved.
Again, I asked him, if he could buy oranges at a
farthing each, how many could he buy for twopence ? He
| thought long and hard, saying, “ I know that four farthings
I make a penny, and the oranges cost a farthing each ; then
| how many could I buy for twopence ? Ah! that’s the
I question, and there’s just the puzzle.” Nor was he able by
| the utmost effort to solve the puzzle. This boy had a very
| just appreciation of his own psychological character. Alluding
| to his powers of forming special associations and retaining
them in his excellent memory, he observed, “ Once put any-
I thing into my head and you don’t get it out again very
easily ; but there’s no use in asking me to do puzzles.”
Lastly, the emotional life of all the higher idiots, as of all
| the higher animals, is remarkably vivid as compared with
] their intellectual life. All the emotions are present (except
| perhaps that of the sublime and the religious emotions),
| and they occur for the most part in the same order as to
I strength as that which I have already named in the case of
animals. But, more than this, just as in animals, children,
j and savages, so in idiots, the emotions, although vivid and
: keen, are not profound. A trivial event will make the higher
90
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Aug. 23, 1878.
idiots laugh or cry, and it is easy to hurt their feelings with
a slight offence; but the death of a dear relative is very soon
forgotten, while the stronger passions, such as Love, Hate,
Ambition, &c., do not occur with that force and persistency
which properly entitle them to be called by these names.
Upon the whole, then, with regard to idiots, it may be
said that we have in them a natural experiment wherein the
development of a human mind is arrested at some particular
stage, while the body is allowed to continue its growth.
Therefore, by arranging idiots in a descending grade, we
obtain, as it were, an inclined plane of human intelligence,
which indicates the probable order in which the human
faculties have appeared during the history of their develop¬
ment ; and on examining this inclined plane of human
intelligence, we find that it runs suggestively parallel with
the inclined plane of animal intelligence, as we descend from
the higher to the lower form of psychical life.
THE MENTAL CONDITION OF UNEDUCATED DEAF MUTES.
I have only time to treat of one other branch of my
subject. Believing, as I have said, that language, or the
logic of signs, plays so essential a part in developing the
higher intellectual life of man, it occurred to me that a
valuable test of the truth of this view was to be found in the
mental condition of uneducated deaf-mutes. It often
happens that deaf and dumb children of poor parents are so
far neglected that they are never taught finger language, or
any other system of signs, whereby to converse with their
fellow creatures. The consequence, of course, is that these
Unfortunate children grow up in a state of intellectual
isolation, which is almost as complete as that of any of the
lower animals. Now when such a child grows up and falls
into the hands of some competent teacher, it may of course
be educated, and is then in a position to record its experiences
when in its state of intellectual isolation. I have therefore
obtained all the evidence I can as to the mental condition of
such persons, and I find that their testimony is perfectly
uniform. In the absence of language, the mind is able to
think in the logic of feelings, but can never rise to
any ideas of higher abstraction than those which the
logic of feelings supplies. The uneducated deaf-mutes
have the same notions of right and wrong, cause
and effect, and so on, as we have already seen that animals
and idiots possess. They always think in the most concrete
forms, as shown by their telling us when educated that so
long as they were uneducated they always thought in pictures.
Moreover, that they cannot attain to ideas of even the lowest
degree of abstraction, is shown by the fact that in no one
instance have I been able to find evidence of a deaf-mute who,
prior to education, had evolved for himself any form of
supernaturalism. And this, I think, is remarkable, not only
because we might fairly suppose that some rude form of
fetishism, or ghost-worship, would not be too abstract a
system for the unaided mind of a civilised man to elaborate,
but also because the mind in this case is not wholly unaided.
On the contrary, the friends of the deaf-mute usually do
their utmost to communicate to his mind some idea of what¬
ever form of religion they may happen to possess. Yet it
is uniformly found that, in the absence of language, no idea
of this kind can be communicated. For instance, the Rev. S.
Smith tells me that one of his pupils, previous to education,
supposed the Bible to have been printed by a printing-press
in the sky, which was worked by printers of enormous
strength—this being the only interpretation the deaf-mute
could assign to the gestures whereby his parents sought to
make him understand that they believed the Bible to contain
a revelation from a God of power who lives in heaven.
Similarly, Mr. Graham Bell informs me of another, though
similar case, in which the deaf-mute supposed the object of
going to church to be that of doing obeisance to the clergy.
On the whole, then, from the mental condition of un¬
educated deaf-mutes we learn the important lesson that, in
the absence of language, the mind of a man is almost on a
level with the mind of a brute in respect of its power of
forming abstract ideas. So that all our lines of evidence
converge to one conclusion. The only difference which
analysis can show to obtain between the mind of man and
the mind of the lower animals consists in this, that the mind of
man has been able to develop the germ of rational thought
i| which is undeveloped in the mind of animals., and that the
I development of this germ has been due to the power of
I abstraction which is rendered possible by the faculty of
speech. I have, therefore, no hesitation in giving it as my
opinion that the faculty of speech is alone the ultimate
source of that enormous difference which now obtains
between the mind of man and the mind of the lower
I animals. Is this source of difference adequate to dis-
tinguish the mind of man from the mind of lower animals
| in kind ? I leave you all to answer this question for your-
| selves. I am satisfied with my work if I have made it clear
to you that the question whether human intelligence differs
from animal intelligence in kind or in degree, hinges entirely
on the question whether the faculty of speech has been of an
origin natural or supernatural. Still, to be candid, when
the question occurs to me—Seeing that language is of such
prodigious importance as a psychological instrument, does
i not the presence of language serve to distinguish us in kind
! i from all other forms of life ? How is it that no mere brute
11 has ever learned to communicate with its fellows by words ?
j ( Why has man alone of animals been gifted with the Logos ?
| | I say when this question occurs to me, I feel that although
|| from the absence of pre-historical knowledge I am not able
to answer it, still when I reflect on the delicacy of the con-
| ditions which, on the naturalistic hypotheses, must first
i have led to the beginning of articulate language—conditions
j bOO>b OD B
| not only anatomical and physiological, but^also psychological
and sociological—when I thus reflect, I cease to wonder that
the complicated faculty of speech should only have become
developed in Homo sapiens.
THE DAWN OF THE SCIENCE OF PSTCHOLOGT.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have now given you an organised
epitome of the leading results which have been obtained by
a study of the facts and the principles of Comparative
Psychology; and as in doing so I have chiefly sought to
address those among you who are interested in science,
I fear that to some of you I must in many places have been
| very hard to follow. But as a general outcome of the whole
lecture—as the great vivifying principle by which all the
| facts are more or less connected, and made to spring into a
| living body of philosophic truth—I will ask you to retain in
your memories one cardinal conclusion. We are living in a
generation which has witnessed a revolution of thought un-
I paralleled in the history of our race. I do not merely
allude to the fact that this is a generation in which all the
sciences, without exception, have made a leap of progress
such as widely to surpass all previous eras of intellectual
activity; but I allude to the fact that in the special science
of Biology it has been reserved for us to see the first rational
enunciation, the first practical demonstration, and the first
universal acceptance of the doctrine of Evolution. And I
allude to this fact as to a fact of unparalleled importance in
the history of thought, not only because I know how com¬
pletely it has transformed the study of Life from a mere
grouping of disconnected observations to a rational tracing
of fundamental principles, but also because it is now plainly
to be foreseen that what the Philosophy of Evolution has
already accomplished is but an earnest of what it is destined
to achieve. We know the results which have followed in the
science of Astronomy by the mathematical proof of the law
of gravitation; and can we doubt that even more important
results will follow in the much more complex science of
Biology from the practical proof of the law of Evolution ?
I, at least, can entertain no doubt on this head; and foras¬
much as this enormous change in our means of knowledge
and our modes of thought has been so largely due to the
almost unaided labours of a single man, I do not hesitate to
say, even before so critical an audience as this, that in all
the history of science there is no single name worthy of a
veneration more profound than the now immortal name of
Charles Darwin. .
Do you ask me why I close this lecture with such a
panegyric on the Philosophy of Evolution ? My answer is
—If we have found that in the study of Life the theory of
Descent is the keynote by which all the facts of our science
are brought into harmonious relation, we cannot doubt that
in our study of Mind the theory pf Descent must be of an
importance no less fundamental. And, indeed, even in this
Aug. 23, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
91
our time, which is marked by the first opening dawn of the
science of Psychology, we have to look with eyes un¬
prejudiced to see that the Philosophy of Evolution is here
like a rising Sun of Truth, eclipsing all the lesser lights of
previous philosophies, dispelling superstitions like vapours
born of darkness, and revealing to our gladdened gaze the
wonders of a world till now unseen. So that the cardinal
conclusion which I desire you to take away, and to retain in
your memories long after all the lesser features of this dis¬
course shall have faded from your thoughts, is the con¬
clusion that Mind is everywhere one; and that the study of
Comparative Psychology, no less than the study of Com¬
parative Anatomy, has hitherto yielded results in full
agreement with that great transformation in our view of
things, which, as I have said, is without a parallel in the
history of thought, and which it has been the great, the
individual glory of this age and nation to achieve.
HATE MORE DEVELOPED THAN LOVE AMONG ANTS.*
BT SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, BART., M.P.
One of the most surprising points connected with ants is
that while those in one nest never appear to quarrel—at
least, I have never seen a dispute—every stranger is, in some
kinds at least, regarded as an enemy, even when belonging
to the same species. For instance, in our common black
ant (F. fused), if an ant of the same species, but belong¬
ing to another community, is introduced into the nest, she
is at once regarded as a stranger and attacked. Nay, not
only are all the ants in a nest thus known to one another,
but they are remembered, even after a long separation.
Huber tells us that some ants which he kept separate for
four months, and then brought together again, recognised
one another with every sign of joy; but he did not repeat
the experiment, and in such matters it is not safe to argue
from a single observation. Moreover, M. Forel, who has
devoted years to the study of ants, tells us that the actions
which Huber supposed to be marks of joy and affection
were, on the contrary, signs of fear and hatred.
Under these circumstances I determined to repeat Huber’s
experiment, though in a different manner. I separated one
of my nests into two halves, and then, after some months,
put some of the ants back among their old friends. I have
already mentioned that a stranger from another nest thus
introduced was invariably dragged out or killed. And here,
let me say, that though this species also drags its own
friends about under certain circumstances, there is no mis¬
taking whether the ant thus treated is a friend or an enemy.
If a F. fusca wishes to carry away a friend, say to a place of
security, she seizes her by the mandibles, and the other ant
then rolls herself into a ball, and is thus carried. On the
contrary, if the ants are enemies the one seizes the other by
a leg or an antenna. The ant thus treated would, on neutral
ground, show fight, but if she is in a strange nest, she
makes no resistance. Another mode by which the treat¬
ment of the friends differed from that of strangers was
nearly equally clear. In order to be able to distinguish the
ants introduced into the nest, I marked them with a spot of
paint. Now, in the case of a friend, the ants generally
removed the paint, while in that of an enemy they seldom
did so. Last, the conduct of the ant introduced into the
nest was also very different in the two cases. The friend
joined her old companions, though I never could see any
signs of those long conversations which might have been
expected in intelligent beings after a long separation. On
the contrary, a stranger introduced into a different nest
avoided the other ants, ran uneasily about, and escaped
from the nest as soon as possible. The differences, there¬
fore, were very marked, and without troubling you with the
details, I found, to my great surprise, that even after a year
of separation, an ant restored to her old companions was
obviously recognised, and treated as a friend ; perhaps, how¬
ever, I ought rather to say as an acquaintancefor
though they certainly hated their enemies, I could not satisfy
myself that they loved their friends. For instance, I took
six ants from one of my nests, put them into a small bottle,
tied a bit of muslin over the mouth, and put it close to the
* A portion of a paper read last Friday, before a department of Section D of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science. Dublin, 1878.
nest, but I regret to say that, as far as I could observe, the
ants did not take the slightest notice of their imprisoned
sisters.
Perhaps I shall be told that this experiment was not to
the point, because in nature ants would never find their
friends imprisoned in glass bottles with muslin over the
mouth. I therefore took three strange ants from another
nest, and treated them in the same way. The difference
was most marked. A number of ants came out in a great
state of indignation, and worked without intermission for
hours, until they had bitten through the muslin and driven
the strangers away. It would seem, therefore, that they
hate their enemies much more than they love their friends.
It would be interesting to know how ants thus distinguish
their friends. Several modes might be suggested. It might
be by smell, or by some sign, or by actual recognition. I
made some experiments, therefore, to see whether ants
would recognise their friends when they were insensible, and
therefore incapable of giving any sign. Firstly, I used
chloroform. But this did not answer. The ants did not
return to consciousness. They were practically, and were
treated as, dead ants. I then tried intoxication. Close to
where a number of my ants {d. flams) were feeding I placed
55 intoxicated ants—25 from the same, 30 from a different
nest. I have already mentioned that most of my ants were
prevented from roaming beyond the limits assigned to them
by a moat. Now of these intoxicated ants, 20 of the friends
were carried back into the nest, where they probably slept
off the effects of the spirit; while of the strangers 28 were
picked up and thrown into the water. I should mention
that the power of recognition, under these circumstances,
was not perfect, because five of the friends were thrown into
the water. It may be, however, that these fell into the
hands of stern teetotallers; and at any rate the numbers
seem to prove that ants can distinguish friends from
strangers, even when they are insensible.
I have made a number of experiments as regards the senses
of ants, with which I will not trouble the section. I may,
however, observe that their sense of smell is very delicate,
though much more so I believe in some species than in
others. As regards sight, I have been able to satisfy myself
that they are capable of distinguishing colour; that they
are, for instance, very sensitive to violet. On the contrary,
I have never observed any proof that they are capable of
hearing. To ascertain if possible whether ants have the
power of summoning one another by sound, I tried the
following experiments. I put out on the board where
one of my nests of Lasius Flavous was usually fed, six
small pillars of wood, about 1^ inches high, and on one of
them I put some honey. A number of ants were wandering
about on the board itself in search of food, and the nest
itself was immediately above, about 12 inches from the
board. I then put three ants to the honey, and when each
had sufficiently fed, I imprisoned her and put another; thus
always keeping three ants at the honey, but not allowing
them to go home. If, then, they could summon their
friends by sound, there ought soon to be many ants at the
honey. The results were as follow : Sept. 8th, began at
II a.m.; up to three o’clock only seven ants found their
way to the honey, while about as many ran up the other
pillars. The arrival of these seven, therefore, was not more
than would naturally result from the numbers running about
close by. At three we allowed the ants then on the honey
to return home. The result was that from 3.6, when the
first went home, to 3.30, 11 came; from 3.30 to 4, no
less than 43. Thus, in four hours, only seven came; while
it was obvious that many would have wished to come if
they had known about the honey, because in the next three-
quarters of an hour, when they were informed of it, 54
came. On the 10th Sept, we tried the same again, keeping,'
as above, three ants on the honey, but not allowing any to
go home. From 12 to 5.30, only eight came. They were
then allowed to take the news. From 5.30 to 6, four came;
from 6 to 6.30, four; from 6.30 to 7, eight; from 7.30 to
.8, no less than 57. On the 23rd Sept, we did the same
again, beginning at 11.15. Up to 3.45, nine came. They
were then alowed to go home. From 4 to 4.30, nine came ;
92
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 23, 1878.
from 4.30 to 5, 15 ; from 5 to 5.30, 19; from 5.30 to 6, 38.
Thus in 3^ hours nine came; in two, when the ants were
permitted to return, 81. Again, on Sept. 30th, tried the
same arrangement, beginning at 11. Up to 3.30, seven
ants came. We then let them go. From 3.30 to 4.30, 28
came; from 4.30 to 5, 51 came. Thus in four hours and a
half only seven came, while when they were allowed to !
return no less than 79 came in an hour and a half. It
seems obvious, therefore, that in these cases no communi¬
cation was transmitted by sound.
THE PENUMBRAL REGION BETWEEN THE KNOWN AND I
THE UNKNOWN.* |
BY WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE, M.A., D.C.L., F.R.S.
Mathematics may be found ruling and governing a j
variety of subjects. It is as the supreme result of all I
experience, the framework in which all the varied mani- |
festations of nature have been set, that our science has
laid claim to be the arbiter of all knowledge. She does j
not indeed contribute elements of fact, which must be
sought elsewhere; but she sifts and regulates them: she
proclaims the laws to which they must conform if those j
elements are to issue in precise results. From the data of !
a problem she can infallibly extract all possible conse¬
quences, whether they be those first sought, or others not
anticipated; but she can introduce nothing which was not !
latent in the original statement. Mathematics cannot j
tell us whether there be or be not limits to time or space ; j
but to her they are both of indefinite extent, and this in a
sense which neither affirms nor denies that they are either j
infinite or finite. Mathematics cannot tell us whether |
matter be continuous or discrete in its structure; but to
her it is indifferent whether it be one or the other, and her j
conclusions are independent of either particular hypo¬
thesis. Mathematics can tell us nothing of the origin of I
matter, of its creation or its annihilation; she deals only j
with it in a state of existence; but within that state its j I
modes of existence may vary from our most elementary I, J
conception to our most complex experience. Mathematics 11
can tell us nothing beyond the problems which she specifi- j
eally undertakes; she will carry them to their limits, but j
there she stops, and upon the great region beyond she is !
imperturbably silent.
Conterminous with space and coeval with time is the j
kingdom of mathematics ; within this range her dominion j
is supreme; otherwise than according to her order nothing j
can exist; in contradiction to her laws nothing takes j;
place. On her mysterious scroll is to be found written, j
for those who can read it, that which has been, that which |
is, and that which is to come. Everything material which j
is the subject of knowledge has number, order, or position; |
and these are her first outlines for a sketch of the universe. |
If our more feeble hands cannot follow out the details, still j
her part has been drawn with an unerring pen, and her
work cannot be gainsaid. So wide is the range of mathe¬
matical science, so indefinitely may it extend beyond our j
actual powers of manipulation, that at some moments we !
are inclined to fall down with even more than reverence
before her majestic presence. But so strictly limited are her |
promises and powers, about so much that we might wish to j
know does she offer no information whatever, that at other j
moments we are fain to call her results but a vain thing,
and to reject them as a stone when we had asked for bread, j
If one aspect of the subject encourages our hopes, so does j
the other tend to chasten our desires; and he is perhaps j
the wisest, and in the long run the happiest among his j
fellows, who has learnt not only this science, but also the
larger lesson which it indirectly teaches, namely, to temper j
our aspirations to that which is possible, to moderate our j
desires to that which is attainable, to restrict our hopes to |
that of which accomplishment, if not immediately practi- j
cable, is at least distinctly within the range of conception, j
That which is at present beyond our ken may, at some r
period and in some manner as yet unknown to us, fall j
within our grasp; but our science teaches us, while ever I
yearning with Goethe for “Light, more light,” to concen¬
* The conclusion of the Presidential Address to the British Association for the Advance- i
meat of Science. Dublin: 1878. ‘ i
trate our attention upon that of which our powers are
capable, and contentedly to leave for future experience the
solution of problems to which we can at present say neither
yea nor nay.
It is within the region thus indicated that knowledge in
the true sense of the word is to be sought. Other modes
of influence there are in society and in individual life,
other forms of energy beside that of intellect. There is
the potential energy of sympathy, the actual energy of
work; there are the vicissitudes of life, the diversity of
circumstance, health, and disease, and all the perplexing
issues, whether for good or for evil, of impulse and of pas¬
sion. But although the book of life cannot at present be
read by the light of science alone, nor the wayfarers be
satisfied by the few loaves of knowledge now in our hands,
yet it would be difficult to overstate the almost miraculous
increase which may be produced by a liberal distribution
of what we already have, and by a restriction of our
cravings within the limits of possibility.
In proportion as method is better than impulse, deli¬
berate purpose than erratic action, the clear glow of sun¬
shine than irregular reflection, and definite utterances
than an uncertain sound; in proportion as knowledge is
better than surmise, proof than opinion; in that propor¬
tion will the mathematician value a discrimination between
the certain and the uncertain, and a just estimate of the
issues which depend upon one motive or the other. While
on the one hand he accords to his neighbours full liberty to
regard the unknown in whatever way they are led by the
noblest powers that they possess; so on the other he
claims an equal right to draw a clear line of demarcation
between that which is a matter of knowledge, and that
which is at all events something else, and to treat the
one category as fairly claiming our assent, the other as
open to further evidence. And yet, when he sees around
him those whose aspirations are so fair, whose impulses
so strong, whose receptive faculties so sensitive, as to give
objective reality to what is often but a reflex from them¬
selves, or a projected image of their own experience, he
will be willing to admit that there are influences which he
cannot as yet fathom or measure, but whose operation he
must recognise among the facts of our existence.
A SEANCE IN GLASGOW.
(From the “ Glasgow WeeTdy Mail” August HtH, 1878.J
A select company of Glasgow Spiritualists and friends field a seance
in the Hall, Trongate, last week, in course of which several manifesta:
tions of a character remarkable enough to challenge publicity were
evolved. The “circle,” when completely formed, consisted of an inner
and an outer ring, the company numbering altogether about fifty.
The inner ring was made up of pronounced Spiritualists, who are, of
course, friendly to the appearance of the “spirits,” and who thus
guard their spiritual wards from delicate intrusion or insult at the
hands of sceptical strangers. One of the four corners of the little hall
was partitioned off by a covering of dark-green cloth for the use of the
officiating “medium,” who remained ensconced within during the
whole performance. This interesting centre of operation was invested
by the sitting circles, and the ordinary light having been put out, the
young lady-medium—an English girl by birth—entered the curtained
recess. The room was now almost completely dark, the only light
allowed coming from a shaded side-lamp, which was still further toned
down to a becomingly grave aspect by the dull red-coloured paper
which enwraps it. The “ circle ” were then requested to join hands
and sing. Hands were joined and psalm tunes were chanted, but the
spirits did not respond; Sankey’s “Sweet by-and-bye ” was then
rendered, and a movement of the curtain put everybody on the alert.
Suddenly the curtain was partly withdrawn, and a ghastly white face,
wrapped in white linen, appears, and as suddenly withdraws. This
incident was repeated half-a-dozen different times, and at length, at the
urgent request of the director of the circle, the whole body of the
supernatural visitor was distinctly revealed, dressed in grave-clothes,
too, and articulating speech in a broad and unmistakably Scotch Doric
voice. “ Is that you, George 1 ” queries one of the inner circle of
sitters. “ Deed, ay ! It’s jist me,” responds George, in a voice sunk to
a “ deid hearseness.” George, who, by the way, was a tailor when in
the flesh, was suffering badly from that painful affection of old age, a
“roostit thrapple.” He spoke as if he had recently caught cold, and
the supposition is not an unlikely one, as the “circle” have lately
interviewed him, it seems, inconveniently often. George then surveys
his legs melo-dramatically, and shakes his ghastly head over their
painful thinness, declaring them with a serious head-shake to be “ jist
skin and bane.” “Can ye no better them awee?” queries one of the
group. “ IT1 try,” said George, who seems from the first super-
naturally anxious to please, and making his dexter leg spin round and
round a dozen times like a housewife handling a porridge stick, he
Aug. 23, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
93
gravely asks the general company if “ that’s ony decenter; i and the j j |
general company, who seem to share with George the amiable desire to i ) j
please, accede to the questionable fact. Presently there is a clicking j j j
noise heard inside the curtained space, and George, on being questioned j j ]
anent it, declares it to be “Sambo,” a well-known negro spirit, who, j
according to Geordie’s ludicrous statement, is “ busy makin’ himsel’ j J ]
up,” and who, according to the same authority’s continued statement, i j I
“ is jist greetin’ his een oot that he’s no gettin’ appearin’ first.” Pre- j ] j
sently George withdraws, and on the expiry of a few minutes, during ; (j
which the company vigorously sing, Sambo’s head is thrust between ! j \
the parted curtains, his face as black as night—the mouth grinning ! j i
like the slit in a post-office letter box. He nods the general company | I
into apparent extensive recognition, disappears, reappears, and repeats i j i
the nodding business. It should be stated that before George appeared j !
a little negro girl of tender years spoke through the medium, although j j
not visible, and asked after the health of a large number of the “ inner j / j
circle,” the stereotyped reply of the parties whose health was inquired j |
after being—“ Thank you, I’m very well, Sisy ; how are you ? ” to f: J
which the invisible spirit of “ Sisy ” replied in each case, “ Bootiful.” | (j
The third manifestation was the most remarkable and startling of all. j j
Two children of seemingly tender years stepped before the curtain, one j j j
of them being the alleged spirit of the daughter of a gentleman | j
present, who asked if he might be allowed to touch her hand that i j
night. An inclination of the little head acceding to the request j j i
brought the parent over to where the manifestation stood. A tiny | j
little hand, tremulous with luminosity, was laid gently within the | j
hand of the assumed parent, and a fervent “God bless you! ” from the | j
father brought the manifestations to a close. Whatever may be said i j!
about the reality or the reverse of the exhibitions, there could be no | j j
doubt entertained regarding the deep sincerity of the parent. The / j
quiver in the voice of the gentleman bespoke the intensity of his j j
feelings. It is but justice to the parties interested to state that the ) j
place portioned off for the use of the “medium” was, beyond sus-
picion, free from claptrap trickery. There were apparently no possible j j
aids to deception to be found there. Admitting the honesty of the j j
modus operandi, and the sincerity of the parties interested in the truth j
and success of the manifestations, the supernatural element must be I J j
accounted for on other grounds. j j
SPACE OF FOUR DIMENSIONS.
Although Professor Zollner and others have obtained I
knots in endless cords in the presence of spirit mediums, |
it does not necessarily follow that his explanation is right, j |
or that the fact proves the existence in reality of the hypo- | j
thetical four dimensions in space of the mathematician, j j
Mr. William Spottiswoode’s mind has been so much exer- ! |
cised on this subject that he made the following remarks i I
in his opening presidential address to the British Associa- j j
tion at Dublin:— j I
If both in geometry and algebra we occasionally make use of points or | ) j
of quantities, which from our present outlook have no real existence, j |!
which can neither be delineated in space of which we have experience, j (!
nor measured by scale as we count measurement; if these imaginaries, j j I
as they are termed, are called up by legitimate processes of our science; M
if they serve the purpose not merely of suggesting ideas, but of actually j ( i
conducting us to practical conclusions; if all this be true in abstract ! j j
science, I may perhaps be allowed to point out, in illustration of my , j j
argument, that in art unreal forms are frequently used for suggesting j (j
ideas, for conveying a meaning for which no others seem to be suitable i ) |
or adequate. Are not forms unknown to biology, situations incompatible | j j
with gravitation, positions which challenge not merely the stability but j j i
even the possibility of equilibrium—are not these the very means to j ) j
which the artist often has recourse in order to convey his meaning and | j j
to fulfil his mission? Who that has ever revelled in the ornamentation | j j
of the Renaissance, in the extraordinary transitions from the animal to j j i
the vegetable, from faunic to floral forms, and from these again to almost j ( I
purely geometric curves, who has not felt that these imaginaries have a j j j
claim to recognition very similar to that of their congeners in mathe- | ] j
matics ? How is it that the grotesque paintings of the middle ages, the j ( |
fantastic sculpture of remote nations, and even the rude art of the pre- | ) j
historic past, still impress us, and have an interest over and above their j j I
antiquarian value; unless it be that they are symbols which, although j ( i
hard of interpretation when taken alone, are yet capable, from a more i ) I
comprehensive point of view, of leading us mentally to something beyond j ] j
themselves, and to truths which, although reached through them, have I I
a reality scarcely to be attributed to their outward forms ? 1)
Again, if we turn from art to letters, truth to nature and to fact is [. j
undoubtedly a characteristic of sterling literature ; and yet in the I \ j
delineation of outward nature itself, still more in that of feelings and j ) j
affections, of the secret parts of character and motives of conduct, it j*
frequently happens that the writer is driven to imagery, to an analogy, j j i
or even to a paradox, in order to give utterance to that of which there i j i
is no direct counterpart in recognised speech. And yet which of us j jj
cannot find a meaning for these literary figures, an inward response to j j j
imaginative poetry, to social fiction, or even to those tales of giant and j (j
fairyland written, it is supposed, only for the nursery or schoolroom ? i (!
But in order thus to reanimate these things with a meaning beyond that j j j
of the mere words, have we not to reconsider our first position, to en- j (j
large the ideas with which we started; have we not to cast about for | (I
some thing which is common to the idea conveyed and to the subject i ) j
actually described, and to seek for the sympathetic spring which under- j (j
lies both; have we not, like the mathematician, to go back, as it were, I (i
to some first principles, or, as it is pleasanter to describe it, to become
again as a little child ?
Passing to the second of the three methods, viz., that of manifold
space, it may first be remarked that our whole experience of space is in
three dimensions, viz., of that which has length, breadth, and thickness;
and if for certain purposes we restrict our ideas to two dimensions as in
plane geometry, or to one dimension as in the division of a straight line,
we do this only by consciously and of deliberate purpose setting aside,
hut not annihilating, the remaining one or two dimensions. Negation,
as Hegel has justly remarked, implies that which is negatived, or, as
he expresses it, affirms the opposite. It is by abstraction from previous
experience, by a limitation of its results, and not by any independent
process, that we arrive at the idea of space whose dimensions are less
than three.
It is doubtless on this account that problems in plane geomentry
which, although capable of solution on their own i|. account,
become much more intelligible, more easy of extension, if
viewed in connection with solid space, and as special cases of
corresponding problems in solid geometry. So eminently is this the
case, that the very language of the more general method often
leads us almost intuitively to conclusions which, from the more
restricted point of view, require long and laborious proof. Such a
change in the base of operations has, in fact, been successfully made in
geometry of two dimensions, and although we have not the same experi¬
mental data for the further steps, yet neither the modes of reasoning, nor
the validity of its conclusions, are in any way affected by applying an
analogous mental process to geometry of three dimensions; and by
regarding figures in space of three dimensions as sections of figures in
space of four, in the same way that figures in plane are sometimes con¬
sidered as sections of figures in solid space. The addition of a fourth
dimension to space not only extends the actual properties of geometrical
figures, but it also adds new properties which are often useful for the
purposes of transformation or of proof. Thus it has recently been shown
that in four dimensions a closed material shell could be turned inside
out by simple flexure, without either stretching or tearing; and that in
such a space it is impossible to tie a knot.
Again, the solution of problems in geometry is often effected by means
of algebra; and as three measurements, or co-ordinates as they are called,
determine the position of a point in space, so do three letters or measure-
able quantities serve for the same purpose in the language of algebra.
Now, many algebraical problems involving three unknown or variable
quantities admit of being generalised so as to give problems involving
many such quantities. And as, on the one hand, to every algebraical
problem involving unknown quantities or variables by ones, or by twos,
or by threes, there corresponds a problem in geometry of one or of two or
of three dimensions; so on the other it may be said that to every
algebraical problem involving many variables, there corresponds a
problem in geometry of many dimensions.
There is, however, another aspect under which even ordinary space
presents to us a four-fold, or, indeed, a manifold, character. In modern
physics, space is regarded not as a vacuum in which bodies are placed
and forces have to play, but rather as a plenum with which matter is
co-extensive. And from a physical point of view the properties of space
are the properties of matter, or of the medium which fills it. Similarly,
from a mathematical point of view, space may be regarded as a locus in
quo, as a plenum, filled with those elements of geometrical magnitude
which we take as fundamental. These elements need not always be the
same. For different purposes different elements may be chosen; and
upon the degree of complexity of the subject of our choice will depend
the internal structure or manifoldness of space.
Thus, beginning with the simplest case, a point may have any singly
infinite multitude of positions in a line, which gives a one-fold system
of points in a line. The line may revolve in a plane about any one of
its points, giving a two-fold system of points in a plane; and the plane
may revolve about any one of the lines, giving a three-fold system of
points in space.
Suppose, however, that we take a straight line as our element, and
conceive space as filled with such lines. This will be the case if we take
two planes, e.q., two parallel planes, and join every point in one with
every point in the other. Now the points in a plane form a two-fold
system, and it therefore follows that the system of lines is four-fold ; in
other words, space regarded as a plenum of lines is four-fold. The same
result follows from the consideration that the lines in a plane, and the
planes through a point, are each two-fold.
Again, if we take a sphere as our element, we can through any point
as a centre draw a singly infinite number of spheres, but the number of
such centres is triply infinite. Hence space as a plenum of spheres is
four-fold. And generally, space as a plenum of surfaces has a mani¬
foldness equal to the number of constants required to determine the
surface. Although it would be beyond our present purpose to attempt
to pursue the subject further, it should not pass unnoticed that the
identity in the four-fold character of space, as derived, on the one hand,
from a system of straight lines, and on the other from a system of
spheres, is intimately connected with the principles established by
Sophus Lie in his researches on the correlation of these figures.
If we take a circle as our element, we can around any point in a plane
as a centre draw a single infinite system of circles; but the number of
such centres in a plane is doubly infinite ; hence the circles in a plane
form a three-fold system, and as the planes in space form a three-fold
system, it follows that space as a plenum of circles is six-fold.
Again, if we take a circle as our element, we may regard it as a
section either of a sphere, or of a right cone (given except in position) by
a plane perpendicular to the axis. In the former case the position of
the centre is three-fold; the directions of the plane, like that of a pencil
of lines perpendicular thereto, two-fold; and the radius of the sphere
one-fold ; six-fold in all. In the latter case, the position of the vertex
is three-fold; the direction of the axis two-fold; and the distance of the
Aug. 23,-1878.
94
THE SPIRITUALIST.
plane of section one-fold; six-fold in all, as before. Hence space as a
plenum of circles is six-fold.
Similarly, if we take a conic as our element we may regard it as a
section of a right cone (given except in position) by a plane. If the
nature of the conic be defined, the plane of section will be inclined at a
fixed angle to the axis; otherwise it will be free to take any inclination
whatever. This being so, the position of the vertex will be three-fold;
the direction of the axis two-fold; the distance of the plane of section
from the vertex one-fold ; and the direction of that plane one-fold if the
conic be 4efined, two-fold if it be not defined. Hence, space as a plenum
of definite conics will be seven-fold, as a plenum of conics in general
eight-fold. And so on for curves of higher degrees.
This is, in fact, the whole story and mystery of manifold space. It is
not seriously regarded as a reality in the same sense as ordinary space ;
it is a mode of representation, or a method which, having served its pur¬
pose, vanishes from the scene. Like a rainbow, if we try to grasp it, it
eludes our very touch ; but, like a rainbow, it arises out of real condi¬
tions of known and tangible quantities, and, if rightly apprehended, it is
a true and valuable expression of natural laws, and serves a definite
purpose in the science of which it forms part.
Again, if we seek a counterpart of this in common life, I might remind
you that perspective in drawing is itself a method not altogether dis¬
similar to that of which I have been speaking; and that the third
dimension of space, as represented in a picture, has its origin in the
painter’s mind, and is due to his skill, but has no real existence upon
the canvas which is the groundwork of his art. Or again, turning to
literature, when in legendary tales, or in works of fiction, things past
and future are pictured as present, has not the poetic fancy correlated
time with the three dimensions of space, and brought all alike to a
common focus ? Or once more, when space already filled with material
substances is mentally peopled with immaterial beings, may not the
imagination be regarded as having added a new element to the capacity
of space, a fourth dimension of which there is no evidence in experi¬
mental fact ?
Professor Huxley, in speaking on the causes of evolution
to the Anthropological Department, said:—
When I first knew the British Association the locus of disturbance in
it was the Geological Section. All sorts of terrible things about the
antiquity of the earth, and I know not what else, were being said there,
which gave rise to terrible apprehensions—terrible apprehensions!
The whole world, it was thought, was coming to an end, just as I have
no doubt that, if there were inhabitants in Antrim in the middle of the
tertiary epoch, when those great lava streams burst out, they would not
have had the smallest question that the whole universe was going to
pieces. Well, the universe has not gone to pieces. Antrim is, geo¬
logically speaking, a very quiet place now, as well cultivated a place as
one need see, and yielding abundance of excellent produce ; and so, if
we turn to the geological section, nothing can be milder than the pro¬
ceedings of that admirable body. All the difficulties that they seem to
have encountered at first have died away, and statements that were the
horrible paradoxes of that generation are now the commonplaces of
schoolboys. At present the locus of disturbance is, I hear, to be found
in the Biological, and more particularly in the Anthropological sections.
History repeats itself, and precisely the sort of terrible apprehensions
which were expressed by the aborigines of the Geological section in
long, far back time is at present expressed by those who attend our
deliberations. The world is coming to an end, the basis of morality is
being shaken, and I don’t know what is not to happen if.certain conclu¬
sions which appear probable are to be verified. Well, now, whoever
may be here thirty years hence—I certainly cannot—but, depend upon
it, whoever may be speaking at some meeting of this department of the
British Association thirty years hence will find, exactly as the members
of the Geological section have found, on looking back thirty years that
the paradoxes and conclusions, and other horrible things that are now
thought to be going to shake the foundations of the world, will by that
time have become parts of everyday knowledge, and will be taught in
our schools as accepted truth, and nobody will be one whit the worse.
The considerations which I think it desirable to put before you in order
to show the foundations of the conclusions at which I have very con¬
fidently arrived, are of two kinds. The first is a reason based entirely
upon philosophical considerations, namely, this—that the region of pure
physical science, and the region of what specially constitute
humanity, and those other matters in which we are more particularly
interested, are apart, and that the conclusions reached in the one
have no direct effect in the other. If you acquaint yourself in the slightest
degree with the history of philosophy, and with the endless variations of
human opinion that have taken place, you will find that there is not a
single one of those speculative difficulties which at the present time
torment many minds as being the direct product of scientific thought,
which is not as old as the times of Greek philosophy, and which did not
then exist as strongly and as clearly as they do now, and arise out of
considerations connected with merely philosophical ideas. Whoever
admits these two things, as everybody who looks about him must do,
whoever takes into account the existence of evil in this world and the
law of causation—has before him all the difficulties that can be raised
by any form of scientific speculation. These two points have been
occupying the minds of men ever since man began to think. . . . Palae¬
ontology tells us, if we go back in time, that the great majority of
animals have had a past history, that they occurred in epochs of the
world’s history far removed from the present, and when we have
acquired all that knowledge which we may enumerate under the heads
of anatomy, physiology, and .distribution, there remains still the problem
of problems to the zoologist, which is the study of the causes of those
phenomena, in order that we may know how those things came about.
All these different forms of knowledge and inquiry are legitimate sub¬
jects for science, there being no subject which is an illegitimate subject
for scientific inquiry, except such as involves a contradiction in terms,
or is itself absurd. Indeed, I don’t know that I should go quite as. far
as that at present, for, undoubtedly, there are many benighted persons
to whom topics that are at present the subjects of inaugural addresses
will become what we have been in the habit of calling by hard names. If
we have four dimensions of ;)space we may have forty dimensions, and
that would be a long way beyond my powers of imagination. I should,
therefore, not like to draw too closely the limits as to what may be
contradiction to the best established principles.
I | THE DIVINING ROD.
|) j Mrs. De Morgan once communicated to this journal an instance of
! (| the use of the divining rod, in which other than subjective phenomena
i | i were manifested, for the rod bent and twisted in an abnormal way under
II j the eyes of critical spectators, in addition to being successful in its anti-
: (j cipated results. We have received the following letter on the same
i)! subject:—
I) i To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
I) | Sir,—In Vol. X., p. 292, Mrs. S. E. De Morgan gave a very interesting
i (I account of the divining rod. I happened to be looking over Vol. XIV.,
hi p. 47, of The Cottage Gardener for 1855, and found an account given
j ! on the same subject, from which I send you an extract for publication,
i | if you think it would add to the pleasure of the readers of your valuable
i \ j paper.
I!' | The editor commences by stating
“ We are quite as sceptical as to the truth of this mode of discovering
the treasures of the earth as any of our readers can be, but our scepti-
! cism is founded upon that unstable consideration that we cannot explain
why the dowsing fork is influenced as is alleged. Such consideration is
| unstable, because the world must be universally sceptical about every¬
thing if nothing were to be believed the causes of which could not be
! explained. Why the magnet points to the north, who can say ? Why
sealing-wax becomes electric by friction, who can explain ? Why one
rose is scentless and another perfumed, who can tell ?
“ Rhabdomancy, or divination by a rod, is no modern invention, for
obscure allusions to it are found even in the Old Testament, and its
efficacy in discovering springs of water and veins of metal has had
believers among those whose names are favourably known in the annals
| of science.
“ George Agricola, the German metallurgist of the sixteenth century,
John Sperling, and Theodore Kirchmaier, Richelet, and Morhoff, the
i well-known chemist, were all believers in the power of the divining rod.
i M. Thouvenot and the Marquis le Gendre published works in which they
i explained the power ; whilst our own countryman, Price, in his Mineralogia
i Cornubiensis, in 1778, records many instances of the rod’s successful
employment. Even Linnaeus bears testimony to the same fact, for he
relates that, hearing his secretary extolling the virtues of his divining
rod, he concealed a purse containing 100 ducats under one of the plants
| of crowfoot, or buttercup, growing in a meadow. The company, with
| Linnaeus, so trampled over the meadow, that Linnaeus could not detect
| / j where he had hidden his ducats. His secretary’s wand pointed out the
| (j place, and Linnaeus winds up his statement with the observation—•
11‘ Another such experiment would suffice to make me a proselyte.’ ’’
Mr. Phippen relates the following as facts within his own know-
i I ledge:—
|)| “ The next fact we shall mention took place on the premises of Mr.
11 Arthur Phippen, the well-known surgeon, who resides at Wedmore, near
j (I Wells, in Somersetshire. On Tuesday, fthe 10th September, in the
i 11 present year, a person named Charles Adams was brought from Row-
j / j berrow, near Shipham, to dowse for water. Adams is forty-three years
|( of age, and has practised dowsing since he was thirteen, in the course
l|| of which time he has been accessory to the sinking of upwards of 100
| /1 wells. To prepare for his experiment, he went to a hedge, accompanied
H by our correspondent, and cut from it a forked white thorn twig of this
111 year’s growth, about eighteen inches long in each stem. He then
n entered the garden, and walked about, with his apparatus projected in
11 the usual way, to search for water. He had walked but a few paces over
| ! the soil, when the fork was repelled, and the position of the spring dis-
i ( covered. This spring he traced east and west to a considerable distance,
i | j until he arrived over a covered well, of the existence of which he was
[ |! totally ignorant, and there the instrument became so much agitated that
| ( I it required a strong pressure to keep it down.
“ All the spectators, including a reverend divine and our corre-
| spondent, successively held one of the branches or stems, and every one
j(j of them was convinced by the resistance made to his effort that the
|| ceremony was no delusion. The next experiment was made in the
|) | kitchen, the floor of which is covered with stone, and under which there
| are no springs. In the absence of Adams three hats were placed,
11 ] crowns upwards, on the floor, at equal distances, and under the centre
| (i hat were placed three silver spoons. Adams was then called on to
j (j exhibit. To the two empty hats the dowsing fork was immovable, but
: 11 when held over the centre hat, which covered the spoons, it was driven
| )j back towards the breast of the operator, just as when the presence of
| U water was indicated. There was still another experiment on the same
j j occasion. The three hats were placed again on the floor, the first
|) | covering a small diamond pin, the second three silver spoons, and the
| s ] third a gold watch, chain, and seals. The first and second hats pro-
| duced a powerful effect on the dowsing fork—that which covered the
Kj diamond pin being by far the more powerful, while that which covered
Hj the watch, chain, and seals was but slight, being hardly perceptible to
| i the different witnesses of the exhibition. Adams, who is a very sober,
uj industrious man, can produce testimonials of his ability and success in
I I the extraordinary process from many persons of the highest respect-
m ability in the county of Somerset.
W “We will add but one fact more to those which we have already
Aug. 23, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
95
stated. The experiment took place on the premises of Mr. John
Barrow, one of the magistrates of the district, a gentleman in every
way superior to the influence of vulgar prejudice, biit at the same time
too enlightened to shut his eyes with obstinate incredulity against any¬
thing capable of experimental proof. On Monday, the 9th of September
last, in the presence of Mr. Barrow himself, of our correspondent, and
of several other gentlemen, Thomas Tyler, of Latchem, a village near
Wedmore, a man seventy years of age, performed the same operation,
that of dowsing for water, with the same success.
“ Amongst other experiments which proved the success of the Virgula
Divina, or divining or dowsing rod, in the discovering water, coal, and
ores, Adams, the dowser, to whom we have before alluded, stated
that he had recently been sent for by the Rev. Mr. Foster, at his
seat near Lodbury, in Grloucestershire, to give advice on the sub¬
ject of procuring water, that gentleman having sunk a well full sixty
feet in depth without arriving at a drop of water. Upon dowsing
Adams quickly discovered a spring within six feet of the wall of the
well, which spring he conjectured to be about twenty feet under the
surface, and on descending to that distance in the well he perceived
oozing of water from the side. He accordingly recommended his em¬
ployer to make an arch, of three feet by two feet in width, and six feet
in length, from the spot in the well whence the water oozed, and that
being accomplished, the workmen found an abundant supply of excellent
water, which speedily filled the well to the extent of forty feet.” X.
Northwitoh, August 16th, 1878.
A CATHOLIC PRIEST ON SPIRITUALISM.
(From “ The Nottingham Daily Express," August l%th)
A lecture was delivered at the Roman Catholic Church, Leen-side,
Nottingham, on Sunday evening, by the pastor, Canon Harnett, on the
much-debated subject of Spiritualism. The lecturer began by saying
that the local press had, during the past week, called attention to the
subject by the publication of a long letter, in which the writer expa¬
tiated on its advantages, and this was the reason why he ventured to
bring the subject before his congregation. It is often stated in these
days of incredulity that there is no devil, or, if there be, that he lacks
the power to interfere in human affairs. Those who made such state¬
ments showed how much they needed instruction on the relations
existing between the invisible and visible world. The Catholic Church
leans to few things more decidedly than to [the close, constant, and
universal action of supernatural influences on the inward and outward
man. These influences are often manifested by accompanying signs.
From the days of the Apostles down to our' own there have been
frequent indications of God’s abiding presence and working in His
church—the Communion of Saints. Take away what may be called
the fabulous and the doubtful, and there is still sufficient to show, in
the words of the Psalmist, that God is “ wonderful in His saints.” The
life of St. Mary Magdalene, of Pazzi, exhibits a picture of extraordinary
communion with the supernatural world, yet she is but one specimen of
what may be seen in hundreds upon hundreds of the lives of saints
venerated in the Catholic Church. Not less certain and continuous are
the agencies of the spirits of darkness among men on earth. The
natural qualities and powers of a pure spirit are far beyond what we
possess, even beyond what we can comprehend. The spirit of man pent
up in a body is clogged and bowed down by the material mass which it
animates. It sees, hears, thinks, knows, acts through matter. Within
its own plastic clay-cage it works at will, but outside the bars of that
cage it can do nothing. Not only is it hampered in its power of action
on outward objects, but even in the exercise of that faculty which is
proper and essential to itself, and which we call understanding or
intellect, outside the region of matter, it can rise but little, and see
but dimly. Not so a pure spirit which is perfect in every attribute of
his nature, not needing time to grow up to his full height of knowledge
and power. His intelligence embraces an immense extent of objects,
and the whole world is open to his keen glance. He can move from
place to place without the least fatigue and with a rapidity far exceeding
that ascribed to the motion of light. His power over matter is very
great, acting on it in an endless variety of ways. He can assume
visible forms, and produce sensible effects of the most extraordinary
kind, far surpassing any human power. In attributing these natural
powers to pure spirits all theologians of every school are agreed. They
also maintain that the pure spirits, or angels, who kept not their princi¬
pality, while in their fall losing all grace for ever, yet retained their
natural gifts unimpaired. The visible effects, however, of diabolical
agency on a stupendous scale are not so common, because they cannot
use that natural power except by Divine permission. God sometimes
permits them to exercise that power for the trial and greater merit of
good men, and for the punishment of the wicked. Of the former kind
we have examples in the lives of S. Mary Magdalene, of Pazzi; S.
Francis, of Assisi; S. Francis Xavier; S. Peter, of Alacantara, and
many others. But no example is more striking than that recorded in
the Bible itself in the Book of Job. Numerous other examples of the
extraordinary power of evil spirits are found in the Scriptures both of
the Old and New Testament. The malignity of the rebel angels is
very great; they have lost all goodness and are now confirmed in evil;
their constant sin is the direct and formal hatred of God ; they hate His
justice, which lies so heavy on themselves. They hate man, and have
the power of inflicting on him great evils. They try to work out his
destruction by their immediate action on him, and by exciting creatures
to do him mischief. As regards the infliction of bodily injury, they
require a special commission of God. It is the common opinion held by
Roman Catholic theologians that each individual has a guardian angel,
as well as a particular evil spirit ; and the ministry of the former is to
preserve from bodily and spiritual harm, to pray for us, to offer our
prayer$ to God, ^ud to combat the evil spirits and to restrain their
power. The preacher then went on to describe Spiritualism, and
asserted that its efficient cause is altogether preternatural, and its end is
to do mischief to men, and especially to destroy the Christian religion.
(Korrasponlien c.e*
[ Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the loriters. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.  
THE WORDS OP A GHOST VERIFIED.
Sir,—The following extract is copied from an old edition of Elisha,
by F. W. Kvummachef, published, I believe, by the Religious Tract
Society thirty years ago or more :—
“ By the death-bed of a highly venerated lady, tried through a series
of many years, a confirmed disciple of our Lord, there was seated a
friend similarly disposed. The conversation, sweet and delightful to
both, enlarging especially upon the hopes of Christians, turned at
length upon the individual mutual recognition of the perfected
righteous. After they had both of them exchanged their thoughts
together upon this point, the invalid concluded the discourse with the
observation that she was quite contented to leave the decision of such
questions to approaching eternity; upon which, nevertheless, her
friend replied that she would fain wish to learn something more clearly
as regarded the life of the blessed, and expressed to her sick friend a
wish that, if it was possible to do so after her departure from this
world, she would in some way make it known to her.
“ Struck almost with terror, her friend inquired, ‘ My dear friend,
what is it you demand from me ? ’ 1 Well, well, I did not mean what
I said so very seriously. Assuredly I do believe with you that nothing
will be wanting to us above of that that can make us truly happy and
blessed.’ Saying which she kissed the lips of her dying friend and left
her.
“ A few days after this conversation the pious sufferer departed for
her spirit home, and her friend was sincerely grieved at her loss, but
yet with a joyful hope of seeing her again, and gradually she lost sight
of the conversation touching the recognition above spoken of.
“ Early one morning, whilst she was still reposing in bed, it hap¬
pened that suddenly, from within the room adjoining, the door of
which was half open, a bright gleam of light burst upon her. As she
looked up towards it she beheld standing before her, adorned in
celestial glory, her departed friend, who, looking at her with a smile
of inexpressible sweetness, said, ‘ Yes, truly do we meet and
recognise above ! Oh! what joy did we experience when yesterday
our beloved S  entered amongst us! ’ After saying which she
vanished.
“ Trembling in every limb, the lady sprung up, not knowing how
she felt—whether she was dreaming or awake. She, however, kept
secret within her own breast the scene she had just witnessed, and
made inquiry here and there whether a person of the name her friend
had mentioned was living in the town or its neighbourhood, and had
lately died.
“ Nobody, however, could give her the information. She therefore
made up her mind that what she had witnessed must have been
merely a vision, which had been produced by the recollection of her
conversation with her departed friend upon the subject of personal
recognition in heaven. Accordingly the whole affair was suffered to
pass without further notice.
“ It happened, about a fortnight after the imagined morning dream,
as she was perusing the columns of some daily journal, her eye caught
the following announcement:—‘ It has pleased the Almighty Arbiter
of life or death to summon to the dwelling of Eternal Peace, on the
  of   •, our never-to-be-forgotten father, friend, and brother
S , after a life devoted to the Saviour.’ This notice was dated
from a place many miles distant from our friend’s abode.
‘‘Struck with the utmost surprise and agitation, the lady scarcely
ventured to trust her eyes. She read the passage over and over
again. Certainly there was the same name which on the aforesaid
morning had been announced to her by the lips of the radiant messenger,
and the same day of decease which her friend had denoted to her as
the day of his entry into heaven.
The affectionate survivor could therefore no longer feel a doubt
of the reality of that sweet vision. The invisible world had indeed
been unveiled before her view.” F. G. Theobald.
Lewisham, London, S.E.  
OPINIOHS ABOUT OCCULTISM AND SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Believing that comparatively few among the great body of
Spiritualists have read those very remarkable and most interesting
volumes, edited by Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, entitled Ghost
Land and Art Magic, I wish, in view of questions bearing upon the
relative potency, the tendencies, and distinguishing characteristics of
Occultism, as studied and practised in Europe, and of what we call
modern Spiritualism, to make a few quotations from the former of
these works, showing to what conclusions their author had, after years
of study and experience, arrived.
We have the assurance of Mrs. Britten, whose veracity will not, I
think, be questioned by intelligent Spiritualists, that the writer
referred to was all he professes to have been, and is, in every way,
entitled to our fullest confidence.
In her introduction to Ghost Land, the editor says :—“ The
Chevalier de B  was, as I well know, a member of several
Oriental and European societies, where he had enjoyed the privilege
of initiation into the ancient mysteries, and opportunities for the study
of Occultism rarely open to modern investigators. I had myself
witnessed many evidences of this gentleman’s wonderful powers as a
seer and adept in magical rites, no less than what is now called
* mediumship,’ for eyery conceivable phase of spirit power.”
96
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Aug. 23, 1878.
Of himself, he says (Ghost Land, page 334) :—“I need hardly say
my purpose was achieved when I mastered the secret of true occult
power. . . . All this, and much more that I am pledged not to reveal,
and which in our present corrupt and licentious condition of society
would prove a curse rather than a blessing, and convert the earth
into pandemonium rather than heaven, I learned, proved, tried, and
practised.”
So much for the author’s knowledge of the nature and scope of occult
studies and powers.
As to the moral influence of these studies, he says that the learned
men in Germany with whom he was associated as pupil and mesmeric
sensitive, in their eager striving for hidden knowledge and power,
eliminated as far as possible all human feeling from their hearts and
lives.
On page 40 we find the following :—u As the experiments of these
grave gentlemen were neither pursued in fun nor mischief, but solely
with a view to evolve the rationale of a psychological science, I must
confess that they followed out their experiments without remorse or
consideration for the feelings of others.” And again, page 47 :—1
V Somehow they all seemed to me to be men without souls. They
were desperate, determined seekers into realms of being with which earth
had no sympathy, and which, in consequence, abstracted them from all
human feelings or humau emotions.” And on page 73, the beloved
“ master ” of the writer, his instructor and guide in occult lore and
practice, gives the following reply to the sad and anxious question of
his young pupil:—What think you of the death, or rather murder,
of Constance Muller, my master r, ” “ Science must, will, and shall
have its martyrs, Louis, and woe to the progress of the race when idle
. emotion erects itself to match the interests of science.”
Constance Muller was a beautiful girl who had been murdered by a
Russian nobleman, much given to the study of occult arts, “ for the
purpose of proving whether her atmospheric spirit, violently thrust
out of the body in the vigour of vitality, could not continue hovering
around the scene of death, and make manifestations palpable to the
sense of sight and sound.”
Of course, no one supposes that the study and practice of magical
arts necessarily leads to moral results as disastrous as those indicated
above; but when asceticism and estrangement from the common
interests of humanity are essential to the attainment of knowledge
which is to be kept secret, and of powers not in themselves helpful,
either practically or in the way of education and general enlighten¬
ment, to the mass of mankind, the tendency of such a life can hardly
be healthful, mentally or morally.
I will not fill space with words of my own, weightless as compared
with those of the learned and experienced writer from whom I quote,
but will simply extract marked passages, as I find them in Ghost Land,
leaving my readers to arrange, connect, and reflect upon the state¬
ments made.
Page 92, I find:—11 No page of retrospect excites in me more sur¬
prise than the inferiority of the results obtained through magical pro¬
cesses, when compared with those which seem to arise spontaneously,
as an organic peculiarity of certain individuals.” . . . . “ Any powerful
‘ spirit medium ’ of this present day could have displayed more pheno¬
mena by aid of a dancing table in five minutes than many of these really
earnest students could have evolved by magical processes in five times
five years of profound occult experiments.” . . . . “ The sum of all, to
my apprehension, is that man, to obtain this boon, must be born a
natural magician, or in more familiar phrase, ‘ a good spirit medium.’
Also that clairvoyance, clairaudience, seership, and all those spiritual
gifts by which human beings can attain the privilege of communion with
spirits, consist in certain organic specialities of constitution, naturally
appertaining to some individuals, and latent in others, though susceptible
of unfoldment by modes of culture. I believe that forms, rites, and
invocatory processes, fumigations, spells—in a word; the science and
practice of magic—may be applied as means to aid in this communion,
and are especially potent in enabling the operators to exercise control
over lower orders of spirits than themselves; but I affirm that
they are inoperative to open up the communion as a primary means,
and that without the services of a good seer, clairvoyant, or spirit
medium, magical rites alone cannot succeed in evolving spiritual
phenomena.”
Page 324:—“ I know, too, that without circles, invocations, or formulae
of any kind, my own beloved friends could reach me from the far side of
that mystic river, on the shores of which they had disappeared from my
straining eyes, but from whence they have all returned, one after the
other, keeping watch and ward over my stormy life, with even more
than the fidelity of their earthly care and tenderness.”
“ In scaling these tremendous ladders of knowledge, I have experienced
many a fearful fall, paid many a heavy penalty. Again and again I
have returned from these awful pilgrimages with a wounded, bruised,
and wayworn spirit; but ever, as I come, I have found rest, peace, and
consolation in the loving ministration of earth’s enfranchised spirit
friends. I have learned to believe that communion between the denizens
of this planet and her spirit spheres should constitute the highest,
purest, most normal and healthful exercise of our soul’s religious
faculties. Mortals have but an imperfect realisation of this sublime
truth amidst the folly, fanaticism, wrong, and imposture that have dis¬
graced the movement miscalled Spiritualism—a movement which has
served to externalise much of the darkest features of human nature, but,
as yet, has been permitted to do little more than point to the mines of
unwrought treasure that lie in the possibilities of that communion. As
yet it is all too redolent of human shortcomings. I dare not pause now
to hint at what we may hope for in the better day of spiritual communion,
when its modus operandi shall be understood by science, and its sublime
revelations be received in the spirit of religious reverence.”
If the foregoing extracts be deemed worthy of the space they occupy,
and prove acceptable as throwing light upon vexed questions, I will add,
j
} at a future time, such as I have at hand from Art Magic, and which are,
| I think, even more striking and suggestive than those I have now
I given. Louisa Andrews.
j 3, York-road, Brighton.
] The offices of the National Association of Spiritualists will be re¬
opened on Monday, 26th inst.
The belief in another world, in the nearness of that world, and in a
channel of communication between the two, is a belief which has existed
| in all times and places, and among all the nations of the earth. It is
I one of the primal faiths of man, instinctive and intuitive, and therefore
i natural to the human race.—Bacon.
I Extraordinary Memory.—A little guide to Uckfield, Buxted, and
| neighbouring places, says :—“ Before we pass away from Buxted we
i must notice that singular character, George Watson, the Sussex calcu-
i lator, who was born in this parish in 1785. His powers of memory
j and calculation were truly wonderful, but in other respects he was
almost an idiot. He was a farm labourer, extremely ignorant, and
unable to read or write ; yet he could rapidly perform difficult calcula¬
tions in arithmetic. The most extraordinary circumstance, however,
was his power of recollecting the events of every day from an early
period of his life. Upon being asked upon what day of the week a
given day of the month occurred, he would immediately name it, and
also mention where he was, and what was the state of the weather.
His replies were invariably correct.”
Weak Witnesses.—A distinguished lecturer recognised at Mrs.
Bennett’s seance in Boston his own departed wife fully materialised—
would swear it was her—but when convinced by overwhelming evidence
that a confederate personated his beloved companion, he reluctantly
admitted that his senses had been completely deceived. A promising
young journalist, trained in his profession to habits of close observation
and penetrating scrutiny, saw a lovely Indian maiden at Mrs. Bennett’s,
fell in love with her, and they were betrothed, he presenting her with
a beautiful ring, and believing he had a spirit bride. When this poor
fellow saw the metamorphosis of his lovely Indian into a very common
flesh and blood confederate of Bennett, and beheld the trap-door which
was an essential part of the transformation scene, he received such a
shock as but few can recover from and retain their senses.—Religio-
Philosophical Journal.
The Abolition of Cabinet Seances.—The Ileligio-Philosophical
Journal of Chicago shows its appreciation of the wise steps taken in
England in the direction of abolishing cabinet seances by the following
paragraph:—“ It appears from the London Spiritualist of June 5th
that Mr. Rita, who is now holding seances in London, is a most remark¬
able medium for physical manifestations. Several prominent gentlemen
and ladies were present at a seance held by him, in a darkened drawing¬
room, which he had never before entered, and his hands were firmly
held by two sitters. Under these conditions phosphorescent lights were
produced, musical instruments were carried about the room, and ma¬
terialised spirit hands touched everybody present. Though the hands
of all the sitters were interlinked throughout the stance, a materialised
form showed itself four or five times over the centre of the table, robed
in white, and holding a light in one of its hands. A seance under such
conditions, two of the sitters holding the hands of the medium, cannot
otherwise than be satisfactory. Where is there such a medium in this
country ?
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM,
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close ci’iticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GIESTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Aug. 23, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by tbe Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6<L
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III.
The Reformer. „ IY. „ .
The Thinker. „ Y. „ . . •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Yictims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
5 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 0
6 0
7 6
7 e
6 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spijutualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... fi
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . ' . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
hy Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... IS
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
• recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, TJ.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much, vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approSched the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and 'Rose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’’—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—^Experiments
—^Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter YI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine -— Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Han-ison.
Chapter YII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe —James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XvIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters hy Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s.
London; W. II. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new hook hy
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
synopsis of contents.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psyehography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
\,-~That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidenee of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E' idence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist. *
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley,
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’S Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to p resent or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given throng'
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of tho
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-medfumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta’’—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryal—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lncia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burite—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the itev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Eads, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfalien)—Longfellow's Position In
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
■ Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The' Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voics of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism,
By Lisette Makdougali Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
Wallace, F R.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W. C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained, at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed Information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive tho information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
17
THE SPIKIlUALISt.
fAva. 2$ 1878.
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATUllE DEATH BY NATURAL MjskKS.
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.- The information is invaluable. As a
HEAJjTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tohio in ttie
various forms of indigestion, use ENO'S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure .for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure BloOd,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, - Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite,-Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for' it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
. will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
E
ITNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
IL “Since I have used END’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
"WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
END’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.   
END’S FRUIT SALT
s particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if, its. great value in .keeping
the body healthy were uhlvqr'sally.kriotrn, not a house-?
hold-in the land wouldsAei.without" it,"nor; a single^'
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain" it.—,
J. C;Eno.mt 2
E
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased:
with your FRUIT SALT* I have fully proved its. great'
efficacy by its having entirely cured nie of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Cantefbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION- OF/
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken. for) Heart Disease:—.
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of yourFRUIT SmDTj8
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect (that
Inever anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
crless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart).
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing -
. Jk would produce it during the day, and at night, my sleep"
’ waswery much disturbed. Strange to say, after the hFstV
dose* of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoyingjrfandf
truly'•disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and haye.not since returned. Outof gratitude-for<
,, the benefit-whieh I have received, I have recommended jt,
to all my friendslboth in London and Yarmouth. At'the
. I „,same tim’e; 1 reel it (a duty to state the above factsT’bf''
which, you'can make whatever use you please—I am,
'dear siivyours respSctfulljve “ W. B. Beckett.” |
Aug. 3p;T877.—10, York-3quare, Commercial-road, London, E. :
CAUTION,: —-Examine''each (Bottle and see the
Capsule'i^raarkedv “ EJTO’S FRUIT’SaLT.” Without it
you have been! ihjpdSfed ofisby a worthlesS'imitatiori;, TRADE
MARK—ENO’S FRDITiSALT.jffiRUIT SALlNEgORfFRUIT/FOWDER.
Sold by ail Ohqpii^f^FriceS.s.^i^l^Md^s. ffd.i i
S?i7eAcre»f djrFam—FHARMA6lE:DE,;RBRA&?14, RUE DE
LA rAIX^^S^. 4,vr. . ?
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE. LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE - IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Authpr.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
£ The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacahac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha -Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople,)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmeu Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wiriel-bewegurig.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence,
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book In a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobolejaw Ballads :—u one can help laughing
at them,” and it savs that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
.like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the voices and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latTer there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, If rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.” ■
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-hook, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the Imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays Include many admirable pieces, some of which
are In verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy,Lays and Prose- Imaginings
. there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric pbwer,’ with a! due
I foundation'df'sMid gendeiffiyi *
| -. ;Mtfi 1 > tPtgVQ.ffie.Erqdfjir.d DailytChrdhiclp.i^ ;
j Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr.Flarrisbnias produced’
; a:-m6'st''Wei6omfe-b6ek.'ffi-,-How.;Ha!dj-i-^j,l Shacabac'was-Plibto-
' grajihed,’Trail be sure to makecevery reader rbar with" laughter.’! >
j From The.Dundee Datfy.’Advertiser. : , f . >
j “I With' sucha free^ and easy1 authbf if is naturail/ {cf-bb eifbectdd
; thatrhiS-subjejCtsBlr6ul0'bbaVrs(ime',trace ofithiS* pqcuiiar-'imosyn--
j cra^sy,' and'indeeaKtKS^dre aS-frpe^'fidd' eafey’ as n'iinS6ifi*?l,'.,Tli6»
| po'dns ai;e.ain3haractdri£e!3hysihoothnefes’attci-rhytlifnibarswin^.'
1 . T'iieVr<H;iris .yery:elab|Sratel^ bdifiid-in' clqth-'and- . -. A.
{ g(|(fgdo'u,s desigh''uii6ns'th'q-cc(Vbri!. : . Iflbur^raafie'rs wish to en-
! coura®lo?iBes'S(they,h'§vie ’a’most'ddderran^'- object'-'in a-very1
I cldverand vefaStile' membbr Uf the' drder.'M*. — •
• - -- ..-v-hgMMM** • priw ■ *—t- t ■- '
(■'- **> iFrow The LiverpoolDUilyftHourien: . —
L/^In m^ah^bmelSbhumlana'g'riffiriJgJtSrd^d Mr.-
!' WiIHanfi*flFH,hr/jSbhipM7tJ||^hf ®outfit, in its* appear- ’
ranee,and eutert£inifig,an^iis7ionteiits.'.lj|: IJM® ’'author'I's imbued'
LwitH.thb true,;^iiMl,’of*huftioni?t:and'‘'amuse9_all!whiie.'rofferiding
,♦ none;’’ ” • *• S1 f** **** ■*?*J —i ■
. .a. From■TheWetMpiJia^uPnesA(Bristol),.1
- “A volume from the versatile pen of Mr*'W." H:'' Harrison, at
wfill-kn'owHTJontrlbutofTtirfKhTIDndO'rUand provincial press','and'
editbr/of iY/iejNpin'iMiteftttj/'Many.tofjthe, humorous poems re- ,
mhidtis of .tli’e fiwdliUmjLeqmSs'. ThefLtiyfif. the Photographer
The *Lai)‘bfy,he MdcewafjwSt 'mft sonic ’of • TM* Wbbblejdw Ballads
wpuldYiot have been’pinwofthy.of Barham hiinself.-' Some of the'!'
shorter Jpogms 'are ’exquisitefanct. there .pervade the whole's feli-j
> gibus sfentiment and poetic febiingwliidli will'make them ucSeptiQj
able, to most readers. ' • •• ' - ‘
From the daily,Worfhe/’ra JFfaP-iBelfast).,
“The finest thing in thebook is ‘ How Hadji-A) ShacSbac was!
Photographed,’ It is an'admirable addition 40' qUr'notftoo ex-?
tensive comic literature!*® The story is oflo- bf which-extracts';
would not give an adetfuate idea ; it is'intensely-Hmfi'orotfs;...
Those who wish to obtain; a' handsome gift-bbdlcA)f«an aitnising'
nature, will find wha'7-(hey;wantjn The Lazi) gays " ■ ^ : s
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A-curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit... .'The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans's or L E, L.’s productions.” -
From The Kensington Neibs.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
- “A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [A. B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late "Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Graoe
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also' be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensation*
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmerie
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking- Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S iiritual
World.
CHAPTER VHI: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of I'nrenojogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Oases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—^Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc —Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and^ Traced, to Natural (Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairVoyance—Pfedictipns of Various Kinds.
( CHA’PTEIV X An ExplariStion of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force" (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and‘is "Probably thS Meditun .of Sympatthy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of thelSubiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulisru—Suggestipn, Sympatiiy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The^Magic Crystal, ana-Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking, Olaifvoyan'ce—Uiliversal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future. , .
‘CHAPTER’XI':—Interest Felt in Mestnerism by Men of Scienc
-—Dfie Limits of Scientific ,C%ution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Sncpess in Experi’fiientS—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thine—-Cautions t'0:be"Sttident,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER' XIIPhenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of suggestion on Persons, in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewisjs Experiments With and;Without Suggestion—
Okse's—-Dr. Darling’s, Exi)enments,— Ce,ses —Conscious or Waking
Clairvojance; Pf,6afiqeu"py' Passes; .ilirr by .Concentration—Major
Bucjdey’s 'MethSd'ii Casfs—The Ma?ric Crystal Induces Waking
Euciuity.jW'heri GfiJecPat—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—EgyptianMagic. 3!*2i . ■ . '
'ClrAP.TFR'^IlI'—-production” of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight qut,of Nine('J>ef|qhs Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
intoMesmericBleep—Sle?'p' Produced without the Knowledge of th
Subj'eet—Suggestijm'in.Jhe'Sleep-^Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
--Sympathic.ClairYqyapce' in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases'; ‘SirJ.'Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
"CHAP.TER'XIV j-^Difect Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair-
voyaned—Cases^^iMUlar Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
manTwith Cjses—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
I CIiAPJERjXVj3-*S:aBce—Extasis —Cases — Spontaneous Mes-
menq-Hiehbmbua^Apjparitions—Predictions.
CHA^TjERdXV-II-'-r'Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
RemaxksratiutiWifimafj'.
LopdonV W.O.' Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Erintoife-JoY .the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
* Hfelhfcirn^Pi'-intkig Works, Fullwood’u Rents, High Holborn
•^Itf^the? Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar. and St George
the ‘Martyr-Jiondon. and published by E. W Allen, Ave
. -Mgiiifl£raneJ Dbhdon, E.O,
