Registered as A Newspaper.
^ (DItost tfsywxtitfr toilj Spiritualism in §rrat ^ritaiu.
NO. 370.—(Yol. XV.—No. 13.) LONDON; FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Just Published.
AN ILLUSTRATED BROADSIDE ENTITLED
TIE WOOERS OP LAMPORT, ETC.,
By SIR CHARLES ISHAM, BarT.
Price Three Halfpence, Post Free; or Ten for One Shilling.
2,000 Copies sold in two days.
PROFITS FOR ORPHANAGEi
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., .Lamport Hall, Northampton.
THE THE0S0PHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART*
Conducted by H . 3? . BL AVAT SK Y;
PUBLISHED AT 108, G IR G A U M BACK ROAD, BOMBAY'.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free*
Dost Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of ‘ The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Now Ready,
The THIRD EDITION of Vol, I, qf MR. SERJEANT COX'S
lECHAnSI OP MAI.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Yol. II;, completing the work, ahd treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,*
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman And Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings dnd Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Evm*ything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENTS PARK, LONDON, N.W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 26, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Ohcmlds Street, Gavendisk' Square, London, TV.
President—ipa. Serjeant Cox*-
This Society w\is esfe.BlisH'ed ill Pebruaiy, 1875, foi* the promotion of psychological soiehce
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of map. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscaabing
to or-recognising any particular tneofy or belief.
All particulars may be. obtained on application to
FKANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the' Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. Cd. ‘ TRulAkh and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT -IDENTITY.
By “M.A. (Oxos.).”
Cloth 8v0. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Divine and Human Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5, On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends. v-;'
N.B.—Hr.' Williams's temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-strcet,
W.O. (comer of new Ormond-street).
MR. J. WILLlAhjl FLfaTOilER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, eyery Sunday night. M . (
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
s, Northumberland street, strand,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE'S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Church (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minntes,all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
‘ Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o'clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Wbo are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
THU FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by. the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The hook deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous- narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely’bound in half-calf 8s, 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C,
Notice of removal to 31,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o'clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, 8.W.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for 1 jd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
T71OLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodg-
JD ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-
torrace, Folkestone.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the. Promotion'of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
t
to Ifttfiijtiess txi t\x$ Sctoo^) and Mdcs nf SpittitnaUsm.
No. 370,—Volume fifteen; Number thirteen.
LOlSTDOlSr, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26th, 1879
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1809.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
lbs.' 10d. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRIS 0N.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published then’ names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to T/te Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Eight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Rareness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.E.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G-.S.
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder. Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S- O. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Eev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Yon Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq, J.P,
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sc!., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.E.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
j
J.
/
\
j
)
The Spiritualist has & steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Boyal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 267, Eiviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
)
\
)
rpHE SOUL 0E THINGS, by William Denton. In this
1 extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, I \
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the i (
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas- I (
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded, j >
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, I)
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta- i \
tiou of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by j\
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review I (
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt | i
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to j /
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability j)
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability ' i;
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places I)
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes ;)
naccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever | \
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of • (
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers j (
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper j(
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
DR, SLADE IN GERMANY.*
BY PROFESSOR FECHNER*
To state more precisely the grounds of my recog¬
nition of the facts upon which Spiritualism is founded*
I add the following general remarks upon that
subject.
In the report which Professor Zollner has given in
his work (Scientific Treatises') on the Spiritualistic
seances which were held in Leipzic und Breslau with
the American medium Slade, he has, besides printing
the testimony of Professors Weber and Scheibner,
also mentioned my observations in their favour, and
I do not withdraw my testimony, although it does not
reach nearly so far, and even to myself carries much
less weight, than that of Professor Zollner and his
fellow observers. I was, in point of fact, only
present at a few of the first of the seart/Ces which
were not the most decisive, and I was present more
as a spectator than as an experimentalist. Those
stances did not, even to myself, amount to demon¬
stration in the face of the suspicion of jugglery.
If, however, I take what after all I have seen
myself, without being able to detect any deception in
spite of the keenest attention, and add to it the
results of the continued observations and real experi¬
ments of my scientific friends in their subsequent
sittings, and also those of the English men of science ;
and if, moreover, I remember that the phenomena
which in Leipzic have been questioned by being
called humbug and jugglery, have in other places
been demonstrated to be facts by good observers,
when mediums were employed who were above
suspicion, then all this reacts upon me with a force
of conviction which I am not able to withstand,
however much, as regards certain phenomena, I
should like to do so.
Indeed, however incredible the spiritual facts may
at first sight appear to be, we must altogether give
up trust in human testimony, and the possibility of
proving facts by observation, and thus part with all
knowledge derived from experience, if we do not accept
the mass of testimony lying before us in favour of the
reality of spiritual phenomena.
Without adverting to the greater number of the
witnesses, I will here mention only a few* to whom it
is natural to refer at this time.
If Professor Zollner, who may be taken to be the
chief spokesman for the reality of spiritual phenomena
in Germany (as well as myself, who do not lay claim
to independent authority as an observer in this field,
but who supports his observations), is declared to be
a visionary who sees what he wishes to see, it should
be shown firstly in what region of observation he has
ever proved himself to be one; and, secondly,
* Translated from Professor Fechner’s work, The Philosophi/ of
Light as Opposed to the Philosophy of Night.
146 THE SP]
whether his beautiful inventions and, discoveries,
which have proved so fruitful of results in the exact
sciences, are fancies. If to rebuke the boldness with
which he draws conclusions, it is said he founds them
upon bad observation of facts, and if his criticism
(for which I will not stand up) is met by the pro¬
scription of his person, which would be returning a
death-blow for a hit, Then it must be remembered that
his spiritual facts do not stand upon his authority
alone. They stand also upon the authority of a man
in whom, so to speak, the spirit of exact observation
and modes of reasoning are embodied, viz., Professor
Weber, whose fame in this respect was never attacked
by any one until he stood up for the actuality of
spiritual phenomena. If from that moment he is
alleged to have become a bad observer, the dupe of a
conjurer, or become a visionary, led away by a pre¬
dilection for mysticism, it is a somewhat strong, or
rather weak, excuse for the rejection of his testimony.
Throughout a whole course of sittings, in company
with Professor Zollner, and mostly also with Pro¬
fessor Scheibner, one of the keenest and most
rigorous of mathematicians, Professor Weber has not
been simply a looker-on of the experiments performed
with Dr. Slade, but has himself taken them in hand,
and has had all the apparatus and arrangements
under his own control. One word of his testimony in
favour of the reality of spiritual phenomena is to me
of more weight than all that has been said and written
against them on the part of those who have never seen
them/or who have only seen them once, as if looking
at a conjuring performance, and who afterwards felt
themselves justified in describing them as conjuring
tricks.
Yet Dr. Weber is but one among a number of
estimable men of science who, after equally careful
investigation, stand up for the reality of the phe¬
nomena in opposition to the mass of those who, so
to speak, throw stones at them from a distance, who
heap up against them all possible indefinite, imagin¬
able, or unimagitfable reasons for suspicion, and then
think they have done something to the purpose.
Superficiality in this field of inquiry is much more
on the side of the opponents of Spiritualism than on
that of its supporters, among whom I, of course, only
count those whose names are also of weight outside
Spiritualism.
In other matters inferences are drawn only from
successful experiments, and unsuccessful ones are
rejected because they are unsuccessful; as regards
Spiritualism, anti-Spiritualists draw conclusions only
from unsuccessful experiments, and they reject the
successful ones just because they are successful. If
Professor Zollner’s experiment with the knot in the
rope/ conducted in Leipzic and Breslau under the
strictest test conditions, had been unsuccessful,
importance would have been attached to it; but as it
has proved successful it is valueless. Easily repeated
conjuring tricks, not producible under our safe¬
guarding conditions, are thought to be of value. The
same rule is applied to all sucbessful experiments in
this department of inquiry. In all other matters when
a new field of observation is opened up, the conditions
under which the experiments succeed are searched
for. Butin this subject the conditions are prescribed
beforehand ; and if, for instance, an experiment con¬
ducted under careful arrangements for insuring safety
RITUALIST. Sept. 26, 1879.
has proved successful in darkness or semi-darkness,*
w it is of no value because it did not occur in the light;
| | if, however, it also succeeds under more favourable
j: ,jj | conditions in the light, still no value attaches to it,
Kj simply on account of it having been successful at
jyj all. In other matters, ripeness of experience and
i | ripeness of judgment are held to be favourable to
l Hi any investigation ; in this it is held to be weakness
|(j from old age whenever the results turn out favour-
f)j able to Spiritualism, and upon this subject eggs
i} I believe themselves to be wiser than hens. In other
nj matters, if people point their fingers at certain
; I things, one looks to ascertain whether the objects are
|) | there ; here the fingers which point at them are
K| chopped off at once, thereby saving the trouble of
|>| looking, whilst treatises are written to prove that
Kj nothing at all was to be seen.
Why, instead of this, which only demonstrates
jyj impotence in dealing with Spiritualism, is not the
m method adopted which alone could be effectual,
jrj namely, to bring forward in opposition to the obser-
jn vations which are alleged in favour of Spiritualism,
j} j such as have been conducted with equal circum-
jn spection, care, conscientiousness, and impartiality
j < i under equally varied circumstances with the best pro-
j) j fessional as well as unprofessional mediums ? And
! I \ has there been nothing of this kind ? There has.
j)} Only this road, whenever entered upon, has led to
Kj the compulsory recognition of the facts instead of
j)j the intended refutation of Spiritualism. Indeed,
j(j none of the physicists who, after a serious and
j) j searching investigation of Spiritualism have declared
j(i for it, were likely at the outset to have intended any-
j)j thing but its refutation.
The talk and the writing against Spiritualism go
j;j their way, and Spiritualism goes its way too. The
K j former way does not run counter to the latter, but
j)j only by its side; the bawling against Spiritualism
j (i does not stop its progress; it has been so in the past,
i) j and it will be so in the future.
j\j If in the foregoing I have advocated the reality
j) j of the facts of Spiritualism, I have done so not on
jjj account of my sympathy with them, as will appear
I’q from what I said before, but because the subject and
j the men must have justice done them. And how-
j ever much we should like to get rid of Spiritualism
j at any price, the price of the sacrifice of truth is too
j costly. The Philosophy of Light can stand with
! Spiritualism and without it; but would rather stand
j without it than with it: for though the two meet at
j important points, and thereby might be led to seek
j: mutual support, as they have done upon certain
j lines, yet Spiritualism disturbs by its abnormal phe-
i nomena not only the scientific aspect of the world,
I but the whole system of hitherto acquired knowledge;
j and the only way I can come to terms with its reality
j is that I recognise its abnormal character, in conse-
j quence of which it dovetails neither with healthy life
i nor with the science of healthy life.
It is no satisfaction to the supporter of the Phi-
j)j losophy of Light to have to deal with a dark side of
*Tliat darkness is favourable to tbe success of Spiritualist
experiments ought not to appear so very strange, because
thereby the disturbance caused by a stimulus is removed.
Speaking generally it has, however, been shown that with more
powerful medial action, those experiments succeed in the light
which in the case of a weaker power would have required dark¬
ness or semi-darkness.
Sept. 26, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
147
the great world-problem. That I reluctantly submit
to mystical phenomena my little work, On the Last
Day of the Od Theory, proves. Meanwhile, I count
seventy-eight years; have written the book Zen-
davesta and the present work. What more is wanted
by opponents who combat Spiritualism in the manner
described above ?
A HAUNTED HOUSE.
The circumstances that happened at New House,
Hampshire, as detailed by Mr. Barham, in the third
volume of the Ingoldsby Legends, are known to be
perfectly authentic,! as are the following, the account
of which I have received from a highly respectable
servant residing in a family with whom I am well
acquainted. She informs me that she was, not very
long since, living with a Colonel and Mrs. W., who,
being at Carlisle, engaged a furnished house, which
they obtained at an exceedingly cheap rate, because
nobody liked to live in it. The family, however,
met with no annoyance, and attached no importance
to the rumour which had kept the house empty.
There were, however, two rooms in it wholly unfur¬
nished, and, as the house was large, they were dis¬
pensed with till the recurrence of the race week,
when, expecting company, these two rooms were
temporarily fitted up for the use of the nurses and
children. There were heavy Venetian blinds to
the windows, and in the middle of the night the
person who related the circumstances to me was
awakened by the distinct sound of these blinds being
pulled up and down with violence, perhaps as many as
twenty times. The fire had fallen low, and she could
not see whether they were actually moved or not, but
lay trembling in indescribable terror. Presently feet
were heard in the room, and a stamping as if several
men were moving about without stockings. Whilst
lying in this state of agony, she was comforted by
hearing the voice of a nurse, who slept in another
bed in the same chamber, exclaiming, “The Lord
have mercy upon us ! ” This second woman then
asked the first if she had courage to get out of bed
and stir up the fire, so that they might be able to see,
which, by a great effort, she did, the chimney being
near her bed. There was, however, nothing to be
discovered, everything being precisely as when they
went to bed. On another occasion, when they were
sitting in the evening at work, they distinctly heard
some one counting money, and the chink of the
pieces as they were laid down. The sound proceeded
from the inner room of the two, but there was
nobody there. The family left the house, and
though a large and commodious one, she understood
it remained unoccupied as before. — Mrs, Crowe,
“ Night Side of Nature!'
THE APPARITION SEEN BY LORD CHEDWORTH.
Mrs. Crawford, in the Metropolitan Magazine
for July, 1836, relates the following :—
“ Lord Chedworth (I mean the father of the late
lord) had living with him the orphan daughter of a
sister of his, a Miss Wright, whom I have often heard
relate this circumstance. Lord Chedworth was a good
man, and anxious to do his duty as a Christian; but,
unfortunately, he had some doubt as to the existence
of the soul in another world. He had a great friend- 111
iship for a gentleman whom he had known from his
| boyhood, and who was, like himself, one of those
unbelieving mortals that must have ocular demon¬
stration for everything. They often met, and often,
| too, renewed the subject so interesting to both;
I but neither could help the other to that happy
conviction, honestly (I believe) wished by each.
“ One morning Miss Wright observed, on her uncle
| joining her at breakfast, a considerable gloom of
I thought and trouble displayed on his countenance.
He ate little, and was unusually silent. At last, he
| said, ‘ Molly*’ (for thus he familiarly called her), M
i had a strange visitor last night. My old friend,
B , came to me.’
“ ‘ How !’ said Miss Wright; ‘ did he come after I
11 went to bed ?
||| “ ‘ His spirit did,’ said Lord Chedworth, solemnly.
)l “‘Oh! my dear uncle, how could the spirit of a
U living man appear?’ said she, smiling.
(i “ ‘ He is dead, beyond doubt/ replied his lordship ;
j | ‘ listen, and then laugh as much as you please. I had
)| not entered my bedroom many minutes, when he
11 stood before me. Like you, I could not believe
)! but that I was looking on the living man, and
11 so accosted him; but he answered, “ Chedworth,
) i I died this night, at eight o’clock; ! I come to
vj tell you there is another world beyond the grave;
j j; there is a righteous God that judgeth all.” ’
>| “‘Depend upon it, uncle; it was only a dream !’
|| but while Miss Wright was thus speaking, a groom
> | on horseback rode up the avenue, and immediately
(| after delivered a letter to Lord Chedworth announcing
)l the sudden death of his friend. Whatever con-
(j stmction the reader may be disposed to put upon
) I this narrative, it is not unimportant to add, that the
(I effect on the mind of Lord Chedworth was as happy
>| as it was permanent. All his doubts were at once
(I removed, and for ever.”
}\ This Apparition op Cjesar at Philippi.—Macnish, in his
iv p Philosophy of Sleep, thus “ explains ” this event. He doubts
\ j not that the “ apparition of Cgesar which appeared to Brutus, and
) l declared it would meet him at Philippi, was either a dream or a
m spectral illusion—probably the latter. . Brutus, in all likelihood,
\{\ had some idea that the battle which was to decide his fate would
be fought at Philippi; probably it was a good military position,
which ne had fixed upon as a fit place to make a final stand;
and he had done enough to Caesar to account for his own mind
being painfully and constantly engrossed with the image of the
assassinated dictator. Hence the verification of this supposed
warning—hence the easy explanation of a supposed supernatural
event.”
Abnormal Mental Powers.—The Bangor, U.S., Commercial
reports the discovery of a wonderful boy, ten years old, son of
Colonel Puller, formerly postmaster at Bangor. Here are a few
of his remarkable feats : He can, in an average of five seconds,
tell the day of the week upon which any particular date in
any year of the century fell. He never forgets a date. Among
otfier things he can tell instantly when each President was born,
when inaugurated, how long he served, and when he died. He
can tell where he himself Was, and what doing, on any specified
day of the last two years. He knows all about the Bible,
even to the number of verses in each chapter of several
of the books: he can give the substance of any verse
in any chapter of any book; tell just where any event is de¬
scribed and where any scripture name is mentioned. He is
equally at home with the hymn-books, being able to tell on what
page any hymn in the Moody and Sankey and other collections is
to be found. One evening somebody told him that twice two
was four, and that was multiplication. He did not know it
before, but the next morning at the breakfast table he repeated
the whole table.
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 26, 1879.
“A HAUNTED CHILD.”
From “Between the Lights,” by Lisette'Farle. !
These rumours sometimes reached my ears, and,
shy and sensitive as I was at all times, they depressed
me beyond measure. I could not defend myself, nor
offer any explanation that would have satisfied these
simple people ; indeed, I was becoming a mystery to
myself, for a succession of visions and strange ex¬
periences followed the shock that had caused me to
swoon.
Sometimes during the day all natural objects would
fade away, and scenes of another kind, “ yet quite as
real, apparently, in another realm, ” Avould pass before
me, held up to me in imagery, it is true, but in which
I could not fail to see, as clearly as if I read them in
the pages of a book, events far in the future, and
which my unsophisticated mind took in as facts that
Avould happen. And, forsooth, they did happen.
One vision I could not then, nor afterwards, ever
fully decide whether it was merely a dream, or my
spirit forsook its tenement for that period of time, or
what brought about the vision ; but so vivid were the
scenes, and so deep the impressions on my mind, that
I never doubted the fact that I did, in some mysterious
manner, hear and see what I afterwards described.
After the first painful feelings connected with my
fainting ceased, I lost all consciousness of my earthly
surroundings, and seemed to have been suddenly
borne away to another clime ; a sensation of freedom
came to me, as though my spirit had escaped from a
prison, and had thrown off its fetters and was free.
The atmosphere was full of lightness and life.
How large my heart felt; I had to put a restraint on
myself. Ah inclination to run forward seized me ; I
felt as though some other spirit was seeking mine.
I looked around ; I stood in the midst of a garden
surpassingly beautiful. How cool and refreshing the
foliage was about my face, how rich and abundant the
flowers, the branches entwining lovingly, and
spreading overhead, forming avenues by their em¬
braces, until they looked like one magnificent bower,
sweet with perfumes, and rich with intermingled
shades and colours, delighting the eye without
dazzling it.
Like a thirsty plant suddenly transplanted to a
rich and fertile soil, I was drinking in all the sweet¬
ness and life that flowed around me, when I suddenly
became aware of a presence moving near me, and,
turning my head, I saw, close to my shoulder, the
form of a lovely woman, looking at me with beaming,
earnest eyes.
She was clad in a simple white robe, which fell in
graceful folds about her slight figure ; her long hair,
the shade and beauty of which I cannot describe,
hung loosely about her shoulders, and was held back
from her forehead by a plain gold band. Her right
hand was held out to receive mine, and in the left she
held a small white rosebud.
She spoke no word, and I had not one to utter,
and yet, by an unerring law (the sympathy of souls)
I knew her to be my mother—my girl mother—who
had left me a poor little white bud upon earth years
ago, but who I felt had been watching over me, and
now, in my first real trouble, had called me to rest
awhile on her pure white bosom, upon which I now
fell with all the confidence of a beloved child, while
our hearts beat and throbbed with intense delight,
and we drank deep draughts of joy, which only hearts
in such union as ours can know.
By-and-by, with her arms still Avound around me, we
seated ourselves on a grassy mound rich in lilies and
sweet-scented flowers, when she conversed with me in
a language that. my heart understood, though I am
unable to bring it into earthly words. She talked of
the past, and was thankful for my sake of the future,
my future, which, unlike her own, would be protracted
on the earth, she said.
She bade me love and reverence my Maker, and
live to serve others, especially my grandfather, my
best earthly friend; to be forgetful of self, to seek
out the wretched and sinful, and, by all the means
that were given me, to help and comfort all those who
were distressed.. This Avould, she said, bring me the
truest comfort when the shadows should fall upon my
OAvn path, for fall they would ; and, if I had to taste
a bitter cup, I must remember who had drunk it
before me to its very dregs.
She spoke of my father, and when I expressed a
desire to speak with him, she bade me be patient ; it
might be granted me, but not now. Then, telling me
to look on the left side of me, I saw a kind of pano¬
rama of living pictures, passages of my own life, some
that had already passed, and some that were to
come. She showed me dark pictures, bitter trials,
which I seemed to be left alone to battle with as best
I could ; scenes in which I was bowed down with grief
and anguish. Despair had seized me with an iron
grip, threatening to tear my heart in twain, and I
was powerless, cut off from all human aid and
sympathy, apparently left by heaven and earth.
Feeling me shudder in every nerve, she told me to
look higher on the picture, Ayhen, suddenly, upon the
dark, shadowy scenes, there fell a light Avhich
brightened every path of it ; a sweet sunshine
gladdened the whole, and chased away the clouds and
gloom from my path, and anon joyous and happy
scenes were enacted, in all of Avhich I was the
principal actor, and in the midst of all the gladness,
for one moment I saw my father’s face. .
A sense of peace and security pervaded my Avhole
being, and overcome, even to tears, I asked—
“And does God permit this ? ”
She spake me back again—
“ Let this be thy consolation, my darling, under all
jjitter trials, that thou art never forsaken; for, are
they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister
to those who are in need ? ”
With that I felt her arms relax, the flowers lost
their perfume, a cloud overshadoAved us, the rich
colours faded, fear and disappointment took hold on
me. My heart grew heavy, and my head ached ; old
recollections came back, and wrung from me the
words, “ Let me die.”
After that day I treasured up these things in my
own heart, seldom speaking of them ; but I lived with
the conviction that my beloved parents were near me,
and watched my life;' and this neAV faith gave me
strength to bear the strange and suspicious eyes that
Avere hoav being constantly turned upon me, or to
hear the whisper go round that I was a Haunted
Child.
Sept. 26, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
149
BERNINI’S BUST OF CHARLES I.
VANDYCK having drawn the King in three different j /
faces—a profile, three-quarters, and a full-face—the H
picture was sent to Rome for Bernini to make a bust |)
from it. Bernini was unaccountably dilatory in the j>
work; and upon this being complained of, he said |)
that he had set about it several times, but there was |(
something so unfortunate in the features of the face, k
that he was shocked every time that he examined it, j)
and forced to leave off the work ; observing that, if i (
any stress was to be laid on the physiognomy, he wras i >
sure the person whom the picture represented was H
destined to a violent end. The bust was, at last, j>
finished, and sent to England. As. soon as the ship j(
that brought it arrived in the Thames, the King, j>
who was very impatient to see the bust, ordered it H
to be taken immediately to Chelsea ; it was accord- \)
ingly carried thither, and placed upon a table iii the I (
garden, whither the King went, with a train of ]|
nobility, to inspect the work. As they were viewing i;
it, a hawk flew over their heads, with a partridge in | j
his claws, which he had wounded to death. Some of j
the partridge’s blood fell upon the neck of the bust, j)
where it remained without being wiped off. This K
bust was placed over the door of the King’s closet, j /
at Whitehall, and remained there till the palace was i \
destroyed by fire.—Diprose’s “Superstitions and
Omens.” ' ■ * «*? < •?i:' |m ! Imk iii H
LEGEND OF THE LAMBTONS OF DURHAM.
Thebe is an ancient but long-exploded county H
legend, that a Lambton was never known to die in j(
his bed the origin of which is thus related in [|
Surtees’s History of Durham:—
“The heir of Lambton, fishing, as was his profane j>
custom, in the Wear, on a Sunday, hooked a small |(
worm or eft, which he carelessly threw into a well, j)
and thought no more of. The worm (at first K
neglected) grew till it was too large for its first habi- j>
tation ; and issuing forth from the Worm Well, K
betook itself to the river, where it usually lay a part j)
of the day coiled up round a crag in the middle of j(
the water ; it also frequented a green mound near
the well (the Worm Hill), where it lapped itself nine j)
times round, leaving vermicular traces, of which grave j >
living witnesses depose that they have seen the l<
vestiges. It now became the terror of the country; j)
and, amongst other enormities, levied a daily contri- ic
bution of nine cows’ milk, which was always placed j)
for it at the Green Hill, and in default of which, it j(
devoured man and beast.
‘f Young Lambton had, it seems, meanwhile, totally j (
repented him of his former life and conversation, had j)
bathed himself in a bath of holy water, taken the sign j (
of the Cross, and joined the Crusaders. On his return |j
home he was extremely shocked at witnessing the effect j)
of his youthful imprudences, and immediately under- j
took to exterminate the worm. After several fierce j)
combats, in which the Crusader was foiled byjhis enemy’s j \
power of self-union, he found it expedient to add U
policy to courage, and not possessing much of the h
former quality, he went to consult a witch, or wise j (
woman. By her judicious advice he armed himself j
in a coat of mail, studded with razor-blades, and thus K
prepared, placed himself on the crag in the river, and i>
waited the monster’s arrival. At the usual time the :
Worm came to the rock, and wound himself with
great fury round the armed knight, who had the
satisfaction to see his enemy cut in pieces by his
own efforts, whilst the stream washing away the
several parts, prevented a possibility of their re¬
union.
“ There is still a sequel to the story. The witch
had promised Lambton success only on one condition
—that he should slay the first living thing that met
his sight after the victory. To avoid the possibility
of human slaughter, Lambton had directed his father
that as soon as he heard him sound three blasts on
his bugle, in token of achievement performed, he
should release his favourite greyhound, which would
immediately fly to the horn, and was destined to be
the sacrifice. On hearing his son’s bugle, however,
the old chief was so overjoyed that he forgot the
injunctions, and ran himself with open arms to meet
his son. Instead of committing a parricide, the con¬
queror again repaired to his adviser, who pronounced,
as the alternative of disobeying the original instruc¬
tions, that no chief of the Lambtons should die in
his bed for seven (or, as some accounts say, for
nine) generations — a commutation Avhich, to a
martial spirit, had nothing, probably, very terrible,
and which was willingly complied with.”
BACON AND SHAKESPEARE.
BY HENBY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S.
I think your readers would like to know what
Judge Holmes says in reply to Mr. Tomlinson.
Judge Holmes, of St. Louis, America, being the
learned author of the famous work on The Author¬
ship of Shakespeare, I sent him Mr. Tomlinson’s
article, and in a letter just received he says :—
*‘ There is no accurate ascertainment of facts and
dates, but he talks of the grand Lord Yerulam writing
comedies and being the grave Lord Chancellor and
scientific philosopher all at once, completely ignoring
the fact that the plays were written in the earlier
portion of his life, when he was not as yet either
Lord Chancellor, nor even Attorney-General, nor the
noted man of science, nor the great statesman and
politician that has chiefly come down to us, and
makes up the popular notion of him. Whereas in
truth he was simply Francis, or Sir Francis Bacon,
and a somewhat recluse lawyer in Gray’s-inn, who was
beginning to make a figure, and to acquire an in¬
fluence as a Parliamentary orator, and was a favourite
courtier about the Queen, with such brilliant young
lords and patrons of letters and arts as Essex, South¬
ampton, Pembroke, Rutland, and the rest.
“ But when appointed Attorney-General, and fifty-
three years pld, he concluded (as he expressly tells
us) to drop these lighter labours, which might (if he
chose) add .more lustre to his name and reputation,
and entering now ‘ the judicial palace of the mind,’
complete his great summary of all philosophy, and raise
‘ those banks and monuments of perpetuity which will
not break.’ This is that confounding | incompati¬
bility, ’ which is none at all but to an ignoramus, or
to some emotional poet, or some filagree belles-lettres
critic. But the express testimony of SirTobie Mat¬
thew is that he united in himself even these opposite
characters.” No doubt the case is a very extra-
150
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 26, 1879.
ordinary one. But surely the idea that Shakespeare,
the active manager of a theatre, possessed all that
amazing store of learning, and philosophy, and
acquaintance with so many languages, has appeared to
ominent critics as most astonishing and a seeming
miracle. But Bacon, on good evidence, did possess
all those seemingly incompatible qualities and all the
learning required ; then surely it is the man Shake¬
speare that we find the difficulty of endowing with all
those seemingly incompatible qualifications and attain¬
ments, not to Lord Verulam, as described by Sir Tobie
Matthew, Ben Johnson, and other contemporaries,
who all omitted Shakespeare in the list of the wits of
the age, whilst exalting Bacon to the very highest
pinnacle as a man “ not for an age, but for all time.”
LUMINOUS PHENOMENA.
Mr. Joseph P. Hazard writes to us from Peace-
dale, Rhode Island, United States, Sept. 4th, 1879,
about some materialisation seances he was then
attending:—
“ The spirits here produce great quantities of very
fine gauze with remarkable facility—a bushel of it in
a few minutes. The fabric is sometimes brilliant
and crackling with electricity. The electric sparks
are frequently as large as spangles. Sometimes
spangles of light remain in full arid beautiful glow for
a minute or more, before fading out; they appear to
stick to the material like fish-scales to a net. The
crackling of this element bad not been heard until I
joined the circle; I made its third member, in addi¬
tion to the medium, who is a respectable, intelligent
woman.
BEMAKKABLE SPIBITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
The writer of the letters in The Morning Post)
about the “ Haunted House at Kensington,” sends us
the following particulars, written to him by a friend
about some remarkable manifestations of modern
Spiritualism. One portion of the following narra¬
tive is suggestive of Ingoldsby’s “ Lay of St.
Dunstan ”:—
A “WORKING’-SPIRIT.
“ My experiences of spirit manifestations are only
those I have met with in the company of mediums
I have met at friends’ houses. I am not a medium
myself, and can only procure manifestations by the
help of someone else.
“About two years ago I went to stay with the
H ’s, and attended a seance held at their house
by a celebrated Spiritualist. We all sat down in a
darkened room, round a long table, with our hands
placed on it, palm downwards, fingers touching.
f The principal spirit called was a female who, on
being asked to manifest her presence, lifted a large
sofa over our heads on to the table. This she did
with the greatest ease, the sofa seeming to float over
our heads like a feather in the air. You may imagine
the weight when I tell you that it took two men to
lift it down again.
She gave J. H. the power of prophecy, and enabled
him to distinctly relate an occurrence which would
happen to his sister in a week's time, namely, that
she would be present at the funeral of an old friend
who was supposed to be well at the time, but as it
was afterwards proved died almost at the minute that
J. foretold her funeral.
“ She also enveloped me in what seemed to be a
sheet, but nothing could be seen of it after the seance.
During the seance the ceiling of the room was illu¬
minated by a blue light, and when the shutters were
opened the room was full of smoke.
“ At another time, when staying in Edinburgh, I
went to see a friend who was a strong medium. On
my asking him if he would show me some experi¬
ments with spirits, he said he would try what he had
often thought of doing, viz., to see if he could invoke
a working spirit. After about half an hour he suc¬
ceeded. A man spirit appeared, or rather manifested
his presence, and asked what was required. My
friend happened to be going out to dinner that
evening, so he said he should want hot water taken
up to his room, and his dress suit laid out, and a fly
ordered, and that after executing the order the spirit
might depart. The hot water was taken up, his
dress suit laid out, and, wonderful to state, when my
friend was nearly dressed a servant came up to say
a fly was at the door, and that the driver stated he
had been ordered to take a gentleman out. On
inquiry he found that the man had been standing in
the stable-yard, when some one called out to him,
telling him to ‘put to,’ and drive up to my friend’s
house to take a gentleman out to dinner. He said
he had not seen any one, but had heard a voice
(evidently a man’s) calling to him.
“ I have not time to tell you any more, but if I
had I could cover sheets of foolscap. I have, seen
articles of furniture moved about otherwise empty
rooms, heard great sounds like people moving about,
seen unopened letters read, and a small child six
months old suspended in the air. To you this may
seem simply impossible. “ W. W. G,”
OBIGINAL BESEABCH IN SPIRITUALISM.
The new self-registering machinery for recording
variations in the weight of mediums during physical
manifestations has just been completed by Mr.
Frederick Yarley, under instructions from Mr. Black¬
burn, and is fitted up in a room adjoining The
Spiritualist Office, at 33, Museum-street, London.
The experiments will be carried on by Mr. Serjeant
Cox, Mr. C. C. Massey, Mr. Charles Blackburn, Mr.
G. C. Joad, and Mr. Harrison. Four or five of the
strongest London mediums have expressed their
interest in the investigations, and their willingness
to sit for the experimentalists.. Microphones, tele¬
phones, and other scientific appliances will be used
in the attempt to discover what takes place in cabi¬
nets during materialisation manifestations, and appa¬
ratus will be fitted up to try experiments in spirit
photography.
We have received “ indignation letters ” from various parts of
the country about the people who are trying to get the public to
help them to wreak their malice on The Spiritualist. The
aggressors consist chiefly of orthodox Trinitarians and Swedeu-
borgians, and some of the leaders of them have been centres of
strife inlSpiritualism for some years past, without having per¬
formed a scrap of work of value to the movement.- Their
revengeful feelings were first raised by our exposure how some
of them were trampling on the public rights and Uberties; for
details see The Spiritualist of May 9th, 1879.
Sept. 26, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
WHAT MAY BE KNOWN OF GOD.*
BY J. \V. FARQUHAB.
Our object as a Theosophical Society is to inquire,
and mutually to aid each other in the search after
Divine knowledge. As theosophists we begin and
end with Deity. If we seek for any special spiritual
knowledge or power which we believe has been given
to earnest and devout minds of every age, we
acknowledge with them that all wisdom is the gift of
God, who imparts it for divinely-human uses only.
Our society wisely comprising students of various
systems of theology, it would be out of place for me,
here, to bring any of the statements or doctrines of
my special creed before you, as evidence of the
existence or revelation of the nature of God. Happily
the former evidence of the Divine existence is not
required, for in the third statement of our rules we
declare our faith “ in a great first intelligent cause,
and in the Divine Sonship of the spirit of man, and
hence in the immortality of that spirit, and in the
universal brotherhood of the human race.” We need
desire nothing better or more comprehensive than
that statement as a basis for our inquiry into the
nature of God and the destiny of man.
The spirit of man, or man in his essential being
is the Son of God, and therefore as immortal as the
Father. All humanity, throughout the universe, is
one brotherhood because the parentage is one. He
who affirms the common brotherhood of man, not
admitting its common Fatherhood, may speak from
the instinct of the heart, but assuredly not from the
understanding. He was not far wrong who wrote that,
“ Whatever the world thinks, he who hath not much
meditated upon God, the human mind, and the
summum bonum, may possibly make a thriving
earthworm, but will most indubitably make a sorry
patriot and a sorry statesman.^
If we examine the manifestations of life in the
realm of nature, we find that its first visible form,
whether vegetable or animal, is a simple cell which
is only discernible by the aid of the microscope. Every
such cell has an individual life ; it moves through the
water appropriating and assimilating its proper food.
The next advance in the scale of existence is the
union of two or more cells, which form a composite
body, but without any distinct organisation that can be
seen by the highest optical power. They seem merely
homogeneous specks of jelly. In higher stages of life
digestive and assimilative organs become visible.
Then organs of sensation, as hearing and sight,
giving the species so favoured a sensible relation to
external nature. No privation can be experienced
by lower forms of life of the powers of those more
developed. Thus the bivalve mollusca have no eye¬
sight, because none is required in their condition.
The rank of organisms in the scale of being may
thus be determined by the extent of differentiation
in the parts of the body. In the lowest forms of
plant and animal every part has the same structure
and performs the same functions as every other part.
As organic life ascends, there is not only a difference
in the external form of the organs of each individual,
but also in the parts of each organ. Thus the
highest life has the most complex unity. The
* A paper read at a meeting of the Theosophxcal Society, Sept.
2nd, 1879. - , . r • •
greater the diversity and speciality of parts in an
l\ organic whole, the more perfect is the unity of its
) I body. This fact applies to all kinds of life, political,
l \ moral, and spiritual. A Robinson Onisoe has to be
) i all trades and professions in one. In a village one
(; man has to perform many kinds of service which, in
y| town is the work of separate individuals; and in a
(j large city not only has every man his own special
j trade or profession, but each work is divided and
(j subdivided, that the whole maybe more speedily and
>1: efficiently performed. ! A country surgeon has to do
v | the work of all branches of his profession, which are
> i specialised in London, that each may do the best for
(j humanity in his particular department. The skilful
) | occulist is the steward of humanity in all that relates
\! to the eye, his especial knowledge and skill becoming
|| the property of the whole body.
\| I am, happily, not called upon at this time to
) :i adduce any proof of the Divine existence, otherwise
K| I would urge the best proof I know, which is the
!ji existence of the belief in God among all nations of
Kj the earth at all times. That faith is subject to
I)! growth or development just as is organic life. It
k| may require very clear and close vision to discern
i) | evidence of its rudimentary forms, and when found
yl they may, to superficial minds, seem most repulsive.
\)\ Doubtless there must be as great a difference between
Kj the first beginnings of apprehension of Deity in the
|)j unformed mind of humanity, and perfect knowledge,
Kj as between the protoplasmic cell and a philosopher;
||| but shall we deny the existence and Divine origin
hi of all life not organised in its highest form? Faith
\}\ in all degrees of mental and spiritual progress is
||| as much a self-evidencing fact as life in every stage
j) j of manifestation. As is the difference of mode of
| {j living which obtains in the various stages of organic
j) j existence, so is the variety of worship, or striving after
| | union and communion with the Father by the
In human soul in the varied stages of its educational
| j progress. Even the hardly conscious seeking after
{(j the invisible as the supreme need of the soul is the
!) j sign of the Divinity within, the response of the
Kj child to the faintly heard word of the Father.
The most unphilosophic word I ever saw or heard
| ! has been brought prominently before the world as
I adopted, if not made, by a deservedly eminent
( philosopher respecting Deity. “God,” said he, “is
>| not only unknown, but unknowable!' I marvel
Ki how such a word ever got into any language. The
!|j word “ unknown ” is very useful, but only when one
IK speaks for himself. Many things are to me unknown
|)| which are known to my neighbour; but “ unknow-
|(| able” is a most immodest, not to say unphilosophical
|)j word, even when used as regards the speaker’s indi-
K j vidual capacity. It assumes not merely that he has
j) \ gauged with unerring measure the utmost capabilities
Kj of his own mind as to its present and future state,
|(| but that he has fairly estimated the mental power
P of every other mind in the universe now and for all
|)j time to come. What I know not is, and must ever
|) j remain, unknowable.
Consigning this word of conceited haste to the
Ki limbo of oblivion, let us inquire what we may know
!;i of God, and truly affirm of His nature on ground
common to the faith of all members of our society,
t)! We affirm the Divine Sonship of the spirit of man,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 26, 1879.
and. hence the immortality of that spirit and the |)
brotherhood of the human race. From this starting- j<j
point our course upwards, from man to God, from |>|
earth to heaven, is clear and sure. I am the Son of K
God, and from that relation I claim all that is implied 0
by Sonship in this temporary state, and infinitely K
more. I claim all that must be comprehended j)
in Divine Sonship, however little I may as yet be able K
to apprehend of that perfect relationship. Whatever |}
I can apprehend of the Divine Nature, through out- I
ward relations or inward intuition, reveals to me j>
somewhat of my own nature. Whatever I can learn U
truly of what is good in my brother or sister I)
increases my knowledge and love of God. To know |(
God perfectly is to know man perfectly., If we could i)
know any man or woman, yea, any flower of the K
field or blade of grass, in essential being, we should |)
apprehend the mysteries of universal nature. For |(
the universe, in all its modes of manifestation, is so j)
absolutely one that if we touch any point we are in K
contact with the one absolute existence. Every |)
visible object is a manifestation of Divinity, and K
were our eyes open, in all degrees of life we might |)
discern the sum of Divine attribute in everything. K
Our eyes being open only on the sensuous plane of |)
being, we see nothing as it really is. So much of j (
the universe as we can see by the corporeal eye is j>
maya—illusion. It is not merely that one or two j\
senses remain closed, but whole kingdoms of percep-
tion have to be opened before we can, through the K
shadows, discern realities.
The origin of the instinct which leads men, before j \
the intellect is quickened, to seek after and worship j)
the invisible Father through visible forms of nature K
or art, is divine. For the Omnipresent One is in j)
every object, but not equally manifested. A rude j(
image of the human form with many hands may be ! /
the best representation of Divine power that the |\
maker and worshipper can reach, but a living flower j?
or tree, and still more a good man or woman, are K
fuller manifestations of Divine quality.
Every perfect member of a species represents the j(
whole species. Every perfect man represents hu- j)
inanity in its highest state. Every perfect man is n
thus the Son of Man, or the Son of Humanity, j)
And as man is the Son of God, every perfect man is H
Son of God in the fullest realisation of Divine rela- j)
tionship. We are now only sons of men; to become, j(
as a whole and individually, Son of Man, as we grow j)
into the nature of, and in fullest sympathy with |
Humanity in all hypostasis of being; and every Son j<
of Man is Son of God.
* In essential. being every one is even now son of | (
God, but not in actual realisation. For the most b
part we live only on the surface of our being—in the ](
temporary sensuous realm—the impressions of which i;
we correct more or less truly by the exercise ||
of the rational faculties. Yet sufficient light shines |>
through from the inmost nature to enable us to lx
discern somewhat of the nature of God and of human |)
destiny. For as sons we have the full Divine nature K
of the Father, latent or germinal within us. Is there
any attribute of Deity that we can think of that is [ <
not an infinite, or indefinite extension of human I)
attribute ? Omnipotence is unlimited extension of I (
power and omniscience of knowledge, But infi- n
1 nitude ! How can that exist in human form ? Can
JI any quality or attribute become infinite ? Why not ?
>i Has the forehead to be enlarged every time a new
language, science, or art is acquired? What is the
size of the mind which uses the brain as its instru¬
ment? What is the real size of man’s spirit in
inches ? Nay, what is the size or limits of anything,
except as relative to external sense ? A violin, though
very small, has an infinite capacity of expressing
musical thought. My Father is infinite, and if I, in
my essential being, am not as He is, I am not His
Son., We are children of God to the whole extent
of His Divine nature. There is an attribute of
humanity, the power of which I trust no one will seek
to limit by form or size, and that is love. They who
can realise what love is know of God in his inmost
nature. If love in its infinitude is not a divine
attribute, any man or woman we meet would be
greater, in that respect, than Deity.
Some theologians, dwelling in the brain,. and
closing the door of the heart, have imagined God
living solitary through eternity ere the thought
occurred to Him to create a universe of habitations
for intelligent being. Such a conception of Divine
life tends to atheism. It is utterly impossible that
love can exist apart from life which can receive
and reciprocate its fulness. We believe in Divine
Unity, not in any Divine Soleity.
We see from what obtains in the manifestations
of life in nature, that the simpler any form is in
structure the lower it is in the scale of life. The
highest organisms are most complex. Homogeneity,
not unity, is manifested in the lowest forms. The
harmonious co-operation of all parts to one end is
essential unity. The body of man is a unity,
because it has many members. Man himself is one,
although, as psychologists, we recognise in him three
degrees of existence apart from the physical
frame, any one of which might be manifest as a
personality apart from the others, as anatomists show
in pictures the skeleton, the nervous, or the muscular
man, in separate human form.
Prochis, a Neo-Platonist of the beginning of the
fifth century, in the first book of his Commentary on
the Theology of Plato, observes that,—“ As in the
mysteries, those who are initiated at first meet with
manifold and multiform gods, but being entered and
thoroughly initiated they receive the Divine
illumination, and participate the very Deity;
in like manner, if the soul look abroad,
she beholds the shadows and images of things.
Buf returning into herself, she unravels and
beholds her own essence : at first she seemeth only
to behold herself; but having penetrated further she
discovers the mind. And again, still further
advancing into the innermost sanctuary, she con¬
templates the Oe&v yevos (the offspring of Deity).
And this is the most excellent of all human acts, in
the silence and repose of the faculties of the soul to
tend upwards to the very Divinity; to approach and
be closely joined with that which is ineffable and
superior to all beings. When come so high as the
first principle she ends her journey and rests.”
The psychology of the Grecian philosopher is that
which our experience as students of spiritual pheno¬
mena confirms. Spirit, mind, soul, form the human
Sept. 26, 1870. THE SPT
trinity in unity in the ascending order. The soul
is the seat of !the affectional or passional faculties,
which phrenologists locate in the cerebellum, or back
brain ; the organs of the mind, or intellect, in the
forehead ; and the moral or spiritual faculties on the
crown of the head. There are various degrees of
openness or development in those regions, for each is
like a mansion consisting of numerous apartments.
The knowledge of this threefold nature of man will
aid in the solution of many psychological problems,
and tend to promote unity of faith.
Popular theology, admitting only of a twofold dis¬
tinction of soul and body, is subject to all the errors
which result from an imperfect psychology.
Our statement of faith affirms Divine Sonship of the
spirit of man. That is a most important distinction.
Until the regions of mind and soul have been sub¬
jected, atoned, or reconciled to the Divine nature
within every one, even Son of Man, and still more
Son of God, can only be given by courtesy, as being
what we are essentially, and are to become consciously
and manifestly. Having some idea of what the perfect
man should be, I can hardly venture to call myself a
man, although I feel assured I am heir to all fulness
of Humanity, and of Divinity, as the yet unborn babe
will become the inheritor of all his father’s posses¬
sions.
Our faith in the nature and destiny of humanity
need not rest on any authoritative statement;
although it may be none of us could receive it other¬
wise, as none can learn any truth without instruction
from within or without. We are most thankful that
many who cannot see a truth in its own light are yet
able to accept it superficially on oral or. written
authority. Yet when we attain to a right appre¬
hension of God, we may knoAV as assuredly of the
ultimate destiny of every being in the universe as we
know any truth whatever.
As I have previously remarked, the highest mani¬
festation of spiritual life is love. Man is in his best
and most blissful state when he has an object, or
objects, of affection, whether lover, wife, or children,
for whom he; would gladly give all that he has and his
life to promote their happiness. This state, not¬
withstanding all human imperfection, is known and
felt as most divine. Through capacity of loving we
can ascend from the finite manifestation to the infinite
source and reality.
What human love in its purest and highest
realisation would do if it could for its object that
Omnipotent love shall do. Love would give its
whole being to the beloved, desiring nothing but to
be received, yet satisfied with nothing less than full
reciprocation. As far as it has any reservation, so
far it is deficient.
. We, therefore, as the offspring of the All-Father,
are heirs of the fulness of Divinity. If there be any
attribute of Deity which cannot be imparted to me in
perfection when I am perfect, I am so far not the
offspring of God; so far God does not love me as He
has given me power to love another.
As His offspring we are in God, and God in us by
necessity of existence. Even an architect or a
sculptor, whose mental offspring is a building or a
statue, has the ideal, which is the essential form of
the outward work, ever in his mind more truly than
the external form can be in the mind of a spectator,
153
| His conception of the form is its real being; the pro-
h| jection of it on paper or in marble is merely the word
[|| or expression of what is always within. If he makes
!; j a thousand such outward forms, the spirit abides in
b| him for ever. So as the offspring of God, we are
| I eternally in Him, and He in us as necessary
| | existences.
But how, some thinking in the limited degree of
I) j sense perception may ask, can God be in all fulness
j ! in every one ? If He gives all to one, what is there
|) j left for His innumerable sons and daughters in all
(j -worlds of the universe ? Ah ! if we could know our
m union with each other in Him, the question would be
If answered. How can the life blood from the heart
m give itself to every vein, artery, and minute vessel of
| the body ? Because the body is one. Humanity is
I > ] the body of God, and when any member of it, through
uj atonement of the spirit with the outermost degree of
|j| being, realises this oneness with all others in the
|(| Father, all that the Father has is his, all power is
given to Him in heaven and on earth.
Such Divine fulness is not lessened but increased
j m by every addition to the One Body ; for the peculiar
Hj nature and function which constitutes individuality
j >j in each becomes the property of the whole. Each in
Ip receiving the fulness of Divinity receives also the
j)j fulness of each individual member of humanity ; for
I'! God’s love and ability of imparting His whole being
j; j is also the love and power of every member of His
|j| Body.
But why, if God so loves His offspring, does pain,
Ip trial, and sorrow exist? Just because He so loves
h| them as to ordain that, through an educational
j;j experience of a few years in time, they may fully
ji| attain a conscious individuality through eternity, and
i<! enjoy the blessedness of aiding in the training and
I) | atoning of outward nature in others. If the end or
ip ultimate destiny is admitted, who can reasonably
jyj object to the necessary experience, momentarily
I \ | painful as it may be to the flesh, since everything will
l;| be forgotten in its eternally blessed results ?
Briefly to sum up the chief points of this inquiry :
III the idea of God is common to all humanity in all
j l ages and degrees of human progress. Like the
|;i beginnings of physical life the idea may be at first
Ip hardly perceptible even to the possessor, and still
j>j less to the observer. When first discerned it appears
|p as an unreasoning instinct of fear, leading to efforts
m at propitiation of unseen powers represented in forms
I'j approaching to the human as the idea grows in clear-
m ness with advancing civilisation. While amongst
j)j nationalities in which the idea of God has attained to
m greater definiteness, the Semetic people have upheld
|)| the Divine unity, as, in the Jewish and Mohammedan
{ religions, the Aryans have been more receptive of
I ’! | that. knowledge of the Divinely-human nature of
K Deity which bridges over the gulf between God and
l)| Man, between the Infinite Father and His, for a brief
! | period, Infinite Son. This endeavour, after the
| | solution of the mystery of the union between God and
| man is manifested in Grecian, Indian, and Saxon
Ip human representations of the gocls. The place of
|J| the ancient Egyptians has not yet been satisfactorily
j determined, In their religion, as gathered from
1 j papyri and monuments, although they represented
m Divine attributes under forms partly human and
“! partly brutal, yet their chief god, Osiris, is always
RITUALIST.
154
THE SPIRITUALIST.
represented in human form, and every perfected j)
worshipper of Osiris, after death, became Osiris. ||
Regarding the Aryan knowledge of Grod as most ||
advancedj I now endeavour to formulate what I trust j>
Will be accepted as reasonable by all members of our 1
society, whether Brahmin, Buddhist, or Christian. [>
Cod is all that is. Nothing exists that is not from U
Him, and if from Him all existence is in Him, and j
He in it by necessity of being.
Of essential Divinity I know nothing more than I |j
know of essential humanity. I know of man, as I j<
know of God, only through manifestation. I have j)
never yet seen any man in his essential being. I learn I (
little or nothing of my brothers and sisters by merely |j
seeing them personally; I learn much from their j (
words and works, of which individual personality { }
becomes the concrete representation. Deity is |(
revealed in manifestation, and this revelation of j>.
His wisdom, power, and goodness even in nature is K
more complete than is the revelation of any man or j)
nation of men. Yet comparatively little can be seen j
of God in nature until corporeal eyesight is tutored j)
and corrected by mental, and still more by spiritual i<
insight. It is most true, as the poet teaches, that if jj
I could know all that is to be known of a “ flower in K
the crannied wall,” I should know what God and man |)
is. To attain that fulness of knowledge my psychical, j<
mental, and spiritual natures would have to be opened j>
in all degrees of. being. Every one has the latent j(
power of infinite vision to become a conscious pos- ij
session on attaining his spiritual majority. As yet K
we see through clouds very dimly, and our interpreta- j)
tion by the intellect of what is thus seen will be j(
relatively imperfect until the whole man looks out on |
the whole of existence. Until then any man is a j\
fuller manifestation of God than any other visible I)
object, organic or inorganic, and the perfect man, ||
whenever he can be found, is God manifested in form \\
and action. In Him the fulness of Divinity dwells. ||
In His infinite Divinely-human sympathy He is j;
related by a most intimate bond of union to every s
brother and sister in the universe. |)
The object of every religious instinct and revelation !(
is to effect a conscious union of humanity with God. !/
The instinct of prayer is as universal as the idea of K
Divine existence. If my asking a favour of my friend !/
brings us into closer relationship as giver and re- j
ceiver, and no law of nature or mind is broken, surely |)
I may bring myself into a growing consciousness of Is
relationship to the All-Father and All-Brother by jj
sensible communion with Him. God is within every j<
one as the undivided central life, light, and power of j<
universal humanity, One in Him. When the One js
Divine Nature has atoned, or brought into harmony jj
the outer degrees of existence—mind and soul—in <
any man, he is consciously one with the Father, and jj
inherits infinite power, wisdom, and love.. According i(
to all analogy or revelation of existence in every jl
realm of life, the son is of the same nature as the j|
father; and as it is the nature of love, even in j<
rudimentary stages of human progress, to give itself jj
wholly to another, the revealed destiny of every son j<
and daughter of God is to attain the full consciousness j'
of absolute unity with each, other in Him. Not by jl
absorption of the individual in the whole, to the loss j(
of his individuality, but by the reception of the inmost jl
Divine life in each through all degrees of being. In '
Sept. 26, 1879.
this each will attain to his real individuality, his true
personal consciousness, and perfect liberty of re¬
ceiving and imparting of the fulness of eternal Life.
Dll. SLADE?
Sib,—In an article in the Whitehall Review of Sept. 13th,
headed “ Spiritualism,” the writer describes an interview with
Mr. J. W. Eletcher. After some interesting conversation Mr.
Fletcher is made to say—“ It is the true view. There are men—
not necessarily impostors, but charlatans—who have disgraced
our creed. For my own part, when I learned that an American
had rendered Spiritualism detestable and contemptible in this
country, I at once resolved to come over and wipe out the dis¬
grace. I have partly succeeded.” To whom is Mr. Fletcher
supposed [to allude ? Surely not to Slade, a man whose power
and integrity as a medium all Spiritualists who have had the
opportunity of testing him are fully assured. W. C. P.
London, Sept. 22nd.  
ANNIHILATION.
Sib,—“ Scrutator,” in your paper this week, speaks of annihi¬
lation as a tenet of the theosophists. It is necessary to obviate,
by a few words of explanation, the very gross misconception
which such an allusion may otherwise give rise to or perpetuate.
I imagine there is not one of the body of students known as
“theosophists” who believes that any human being is at once
extinguished as to his conscious individuality at the change
called death. The doctrine to which I suppose “ Scrutator ”
refers is that which distinguishes soul from spirit—the spirit
alone having and conferring immortality—and which teaches that
the higher principle is separable from, though attached to the
lower, until it has effected the conversion of the latter to itself.
No one even superficially acquainted with ancient philosophy, or
metaphysical theology, will need to be told that this distinction
between soul and spirit is no new invention; and it has only to
be understood to make any man’s assurance of immortality—not
mere survival of this body—-seem wonderfully rash and pre¬
sumptuous. The doctrine is not at all in conflict with any fact
demonstrated by Spiritualism. There are even spirits of a high
order who have given its terrible warning through mediums.
I know nothing definitely of the views of the “ Conditional
Immortality Association” to which “ Scrutator ” refers. It is
quite possible they have recovered a true interpretation of
biblical passages which have been supposed to refer to eternity of
punishment. So far, the results at which they have arrived will
certainly interest theosophists; not so the question whether any
orthodox Christian will be appeased by the annihilation instead of
the damnation of unbelievers. A Student oe Theosophy.
TEST MEDIUMSHIP IN PAKIS.
Sib,—I have derived such pleasure and satisfaction from my
private seances with Mrs. Lowe, and have conceived such a
warm regard and esteem for her, that I venture to make public
one small incident in my experiences; thinking, too, it may be
interesting to those whose hearts yearn to know that the loved
ones who have passed away from earth are still near, helping and
blessing us.
My own heart was satisfied and comforted as to this fact, but
my sister, a woman of an earnest and analytical cast of mind,
regarded my faith and my slight mediumistic powers as a delu¬
sion, or hallucination on my part. Thinking to prove this to me,
as well as to herself* she sent me a sealed letter, written to some
one (I knew not who) in the spirit-world, asking many questions,
and to this letter she requested me to “ try to get an answer.”
I took the letter to Mrs. Lowe. She was ill, and unable to give
me a sitting, but she bade me keep the letter in my pocket. On
Mrs. Lowe’s recovery we appointed an hour to sit “ for an
answer to this sealed letter,” written by my sister several hundreds
of miles off, and which, during Mrs. Lowe’s illness, had never left
my pocket.
I was unfortunately unable to keep the appointment, and this
fact makes the answer all the more remarkable, for on my
reaching Mrs. Lowe’s apartments, I found she had felt so im¬
pressed to write at the hour appointed that she sat down, and
on my arrival there was put into my hand a letter consisting of
Sept. 26, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15;
nine large pages closely written. It was from my mother to my j)j
sister (tnere could be no doubt as to the identity), giving full j (|
details of her joy on awaking in her spirit home, greeted there i\j
by many she had loved on earth, and especially by her children \\\
who had passed away as “ little ones,” and whom, to her great |) i
surprise, she found grown to man’s and woman’s estate. All 1/1
her children were mentioned byname in proper order, many j(i
family circumstances and events spoken of, of which Mrs. Lowe |(j
could have no possible knowledge, and, as I learned afterwards i)
from my sister (when she acknowledged receipt of the precious !)
missive;, all her questions were answered. (
The above are unvarnished facts. I have the pleasure to ! \
enclose my card, as a guarantee to you privately of the truth i j
and authenticity of what I have written, and I beg to sign |)
myself, sir, j <
One who longs to see Spiritualism “ cover the land ” i)
IN ITS HIGHEST AND TRUEST PORM. i)
Paris, Sept. 21st, 1879.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS 11
AND THE PRESS. I (
Sir,—No one (except perhaps a member of the Council) can i)
read the extracts published by you this week from the pro- | (
ceedings of the Council of the above Association without seeing j \
that you have entirely and conclusively substantiated the state- j >
ment which. Mr. Theobald describes as “utterly without founda- |/
tion.” If this is a specimen of the “misrepresentations” of K
which The Spiritualist newspaper is accused, one must conclude | \
that the Council so describes the publication of any fact to which j)
it is not agreeable to them to have attention called.
This irritability and the consequent confusion of thought are j <
characteristics of people who are set to perform public functions j \
in however small a sphere) before they have acquired the ele- j)
mentary education and ideas of public life. Intolerance of criti- i;
cism (always, of course, expressed by complaints of unfairness) I?
on the part of a public body should stamp it in the eyes of its i <
constituents as unfit for its duties. Nearly all the recent trouble | j
of this Association has arisen out of this tendency on the part of j)
its Council. Directly their acts and sayings were freely and )
independently criticised—possibly not always justly—they, meta- j (
pkorically speaking, began to fly at the throat of the offender. 1 <
This went on for some time, merely giving a vulgar and disagree- i |
able tone to their proceedings, until at length the excitement of I <
the section which has now prevailed (and with which the Council i <
is accordingly identified) found relief in overt acts, or |1
rather in acts which were overt in their results, though j \
the modus operandi certainly had not this character. Then j)
came the disruption. Their subsequent temper may be inferred i1
from, among other symptoms, the fact that one of their number, ['
a lady, is reported to have made the pleasant suggestion that j |
the signatures to the memorial presentea to the Council at its j!
late meeting might be forgeries I * Whether the attempt which, 11
it seems, is being made to reform the composition of the Council i1
will succeed remains to be seen. There is reason to believe that j
some who sympathise with it will not join in it, because they | \
fear that the Association is too feeble to bear even restorative i
measures. But if organisation among Spiritualists is really j<
wanted, they may be sure that it will ultimately be established j'
on a wide and deep foundation, even if one, two, or three expe- | \
riments should fail. Observer. j
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?—THE LATE PRINCE I,
IMPERIAL.
Sir,—Your correspondent “Aldebaron’s” remarks on the <
nativity of the late Prince Imperial, son of Napoleon III., are <
very interesting, and are calculated to excite in the mind of the K
student a desire to know a little more concernmg it. Having 1
gone very carefully over the whole of the calculations, including i
the primary arcs of direction corresponding to the chief events of j
his career on this earth, I am tempted to offer the following <
elements :—R.A. of M.C. 221° 48'. Ascending degree 11° 51 of !
Capricorn. Sun in 25° 45' of Pisces. Moon in 25° 0 of j
Cancer. Mercury in 28° 8' of Aquarius. Yenus in 23° 14 ’of j)
Aquarius. Mars in Libra 18° 58 , retrograde. Jupiter in
-Pisces 17° 55 ’. Saturn in Gemini 23° 32'. Uranus in Taurus |
18° O'. Neptune in Pisces 18° 12'. The moon was “hyleg,”
* It will be interesting to notice whether this remark, “ that f
all the signatures might have been written by one person,” will j
appear in the 11 authorised report,” ! ‘ >
and was posited in the sign Cancer (which “ rules,” or influences
Africa), and in square to Mars. Hence the young Prince met
with a violent death in Africa. His delicacy of constitution was
foretold by Zadkiel in his Almanac for 1857, and Zadkiel also
affirmed his belief that the Prince would not live to reign. In
1867, under evil directions (sun to the parallel of Mars in the
zodiac, 10° 58'; ascendant opposition moon in the zodiac,
11° 25'; and moon parallel Saturn in the zodiac, 11° 29'), the
Prince sustained an injury to his hip and knee in consequence of
some severe falls, and had to submit to surgical operations.
This prevented his attending the Exhibition until June. Thus
was verified Zadkiel’s prediction, viz.:—“ The Erench Emperor has
now (1867) fame and honours; this child of fortune becomes
more and more prosperous ; in fine, he will be spoken of as the
greatest man in all Europe; but the Prince Imperial suffers, and
this is the bitter drop in the Emperor’s cup.” Any one who will
turn to page 15 of ZadkieVs Almanac for 1867, and it can be
seen at the British Museum, will be able to verify this fact for
himself.
The fall of Napoleon III. was also foretold by Zadkiel, in his
Almanac for 1853, in the following words ;—“ But let him not
dream of lasting honours, power, or prosperity. He shall found
no dynasty; he shall wear no durable crown. But, in the midst'
of deeds of blood and slaughter, with affrighted Europe trembling
beneath the weight of his daring martial hosts, he descends
beneath the heavy hand of Eate, and falls to rise no more, with
none to mourn him, none to inherit his renown, none to record his
good deeds, and none to lament his destruction.”
It is worthy of notice that at the birth of the son of Napoleon
I., as at the birth of the late Prince Imperial, the sun was in
square aspect to Saturn. At the birth of Napoleon I., Saturn
was in the mid-heaven and in opposition to the moon. At the
birth of Napoleon III., Saturn was in the mid-heaven and in
square to the moon. Accordingly all these four personages fell
from their exalted positions and died in exile.
At the period of the death of the Prince Imperial, the following
very evil train of directions was operating, viz:—Ascendant
semiquartile sun, in the zodiac, 22° 37'; mid-heaven conjunction
Mars, converse, 23° 13'; ascendant square Mars, converse, 23° 13';
sun square Uranus, zodiac, converse, 23° 13'; ascendant parallel
Uranus, zodiac, 23 °51' ; and moon semiquartile Mars, zodiac,
24° 17'. The influence of Mars in this train is very apparent, and,
accordingly, the Prince died a martial and violent death. The
arc for the period of death, according to the Ptolemaic (luni-
solar) measure was 23° 13'.
At the birthday anniversary in 1879, the sun was in sextile
aspect to Mars; the moon was in the ascendant hastening to the
conjunction with Mars; and Mars was within four degrees of the
exact opposition of the moon’s place at birth. On the day of his
death Mars was within one degree of the longitude held by the
sun at the Prince’s birth. These coincidences are very remark¬
able, and cannot fairly be dismissed as accidental, for they are in
exact accordance with the observations and teachings of all
astrologers, as a study of the Text-Book of Astrology will prove.
Alfred J. Pearce.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A Voice.—We do not print anonymous letters praising pro¬
fessional mediums. When good tests are obtained they should
be described, and preferably authenticated by the name and
address of the writer.
Mr. E. 0. Matthews, the remarkable test medium, is coming
to London in a week’s time.
Mr. Alfred Eirman, the Parisian medium, is now in
London, and will give a reception to his friends next Monday
evening at his rooms, 26, Southampton-row, Holborn.
Theatrical.—Life says about the performances at the Hay-
market Theatre:—“ Miss Linda Dietz plays ‘ Cicely Homespun ’
with a natural grace and sentiment it would be difficult to equal
on our stage. She is never for one moment out of the frame of
the picture, never wanders from the ideal of the part she plays,
to the reality of her audience or the house, and shows so much
feeling that a much more trying part would, I am sure, in her
hands be certain to meet with a power of execution which ought
to put her at once into as prominent a position as that of any
lady much better known in the theatrical world.” At the
Criterion Theatre good work is being done just now by a piece
which exposes all the tricks of a worldly match-making mother
engaged in sacrificing the affections of her child, while selling her
to the highest bidder.
MESMEKISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Tty the late Wm. Gregory, H.D., F.U.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by tbe Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size,
tbe cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. Cd. post free.}
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—Fired Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously- in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
--Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking: Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V: —Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator-
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VIITrance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet's
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artiflcially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, <itc. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up. by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis's Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in tbe Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley's Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance — Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agencj’' of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
nd Summary.
hi In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
hi civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
i) i sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
!; | lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
!) I ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
I?| The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
j (| Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
I (! investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
I \ | professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
m • true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
i/j were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
j) i presence of mediums without being touched.
! (i Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
j (| Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
; (j thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
j(i house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. It. Wallace, Mr.
j \ i Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
! >! professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
i; i Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
i(! forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
: (| stranger to the family present.
:) i The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
j) j science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
|) I untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
j (I private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
M\ by any member of the family. At the present time there are
i (j only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe-
Kj nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
i) I tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
m be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
:) j great movement of modem Spiritualism. Readers should pro-
I) I tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
j/j the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
i(l which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
KI duped who trust in worthless authorities.
I (| One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
Rj ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
| ^ j new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
■)\ tions, obtains the phenomena:—
LI) 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
i (| tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
I (I 2. Let the circle consist of four, five; or six individuals, about
Ki the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
i jl to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
i) j wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
]) I top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
| / j little importance. Any table will do.
U j 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
I (| but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
| \ j 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
I): general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
j) | should be of a frivolous nature.
!.) j ' 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
j) i feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
i) i indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
: 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
Ki to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
; (| the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
ijl three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
l)i “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood,
i) i If. three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
I) | letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
in to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?’’ Should
I (| three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
Ki from this time an intelligent system of communication is
Ivi established.
I) j 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
i) I trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
I) i messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
i (I usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
||| objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
Bl the observers should not go to the Other extreme and give way
K j to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
Ijy or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
I) I undeniable proof.
j) | 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two stances
\) I because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
I ? | sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi-
i (; tive to mesmeric influences.
)) Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
|) 'i not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
i) j week ; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
111 stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 3D, British Museum-street, London
Sept. 26, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
British national associa-
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Groat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to dances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman Road, Brixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, <fcc., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. Sec.
Mrs. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening's
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White's contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
 E. W, Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural. It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W O.
rriHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
piper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, Ac., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O. 
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
This second edition is, for its quality and size, the
cheapest large work ever published in this country in
connection with Spiritualism. Price fis., or fis. Cd.
post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, WLondon,. 0.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of.1- M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
Wnite, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation, By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A,, Oxon,”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Morryat.
XVUI.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXf.—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epos
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow's Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLlV.—Immortality, By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
I XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
rpHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
X OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Prcoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, GJd. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality-
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—^Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? —Immateriality—Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev, S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge =; Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss —Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Quldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Vbysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d,
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FIIOM THE INNER LIEE.,,
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—*
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. 'Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom —XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie,
17
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 26, 1879,
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
Christmas P*lidding,
USE
END’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the W or Id
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENG’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Bipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparking, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season,
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Bev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Colleriy:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to he a blessing to the
world."
QTIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
IO AMOUNT of EXEECISE frequently DE-
EANGE the LIVEE. ENO’S FEUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WOBLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FEUIT SaLT —
“Allour customers for ENO’S FEUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.’’—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c„ use
EITO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
Xa. FEU IT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
TUAGGED, WEARY, AND WORN
JP OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
JENO'S FEUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FEUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—” 14, Rue de la
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has t aken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
he without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never he without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FEUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Egbert Hum-
fhreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
‘‘SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
►O vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked " ENO’S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by-a worthless imitation. Sold by all
• Chemists. Price its. Sd. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
MR. ALFRED FIRMAN
WILD HOLD
A Eeception on Monday next, at Eight o’clock p.m ,
At his Booms,
26, SOUTHAMPTON BOW, HOLBOEN, LONDON,
To meet his Friends, and those interested in his
Mediumshlp.
THE ALPHA; or, the First Principle
of the Human Mind; a Eevelation, but no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Dennys. . 370 pages, price 3s. 6d.
‘We can call to mind few hooks fit to be its fellows.”
—Athenxum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read ; it is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also, just published, with engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. Gd.
FT1HE RELIGION OF LIFE, as exemp-
JL lifted by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
the Author of “ Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties -presented.
In two vols., price 10s. Gd. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C,
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durviiie. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Eue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France. 1
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, hoard and all included, £S per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Eue de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
WORKS by AN DREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The " Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Tire Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . ,76
The Teacher. ,, II. „ . .76
The Seer, „ III. „ : . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, ..76
The Thinker. „ V. , . . . 7 0
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . ; . . ..76
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People  7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . • . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . ..36
Harbinger of Health . . ... ..76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . ,36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and then’ Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . . 3 0
Morning Lectures . . . • < . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIEKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY'S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOE TWO GUINEAS PEE MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIEKBEOK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOE FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIEKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS BAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini*
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged foi*
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writiugs, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS EAVENSCEOF1’, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DR. CARTER-BLAKE’S BRITISH
MUSEUM LECTURES will be recommenced
in the middle Of October next, when arrangements on
a large scale will be made to render the British Museum
(as suggested by the Principal Librarian) useful for
the purposes of general tuition before schools.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
 Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOR SEPTEMBER, 1879.
Mesmerism; by S. De Morgan—Popular Errors and
Objections to Spiritualism explained and answered—
The Jewish Kabbalah; by J. W. F.—Spiritualism a
New Basis of Belief; by J. S. Farmer—Memorable
Relations : Ghosts in Tyrol; by A. M. Howitt Watts—
Notes and Gleanings: Spiritualistic Contrasts ; Mr.
Spurgeon versus Modern Society; Professor Gairdner
on Spiritualism; Spiritualism and Morals; Exposures
of Spiritualism; Shelley’s Religious Convictions;
Spirirtualism the Up-Builder of a Rational FaiihJ;
Scientific Claim of Spiritualism—Sonnets to a Sister,
of Mercy; by J. T. Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW Hay Nisbet & Co. 62, Bopework-laue
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
CONTENTS.
Dr. Slade in Germany. By Professor Fechner ... 146
A Haunted House        147
The Apparition seen by Lord Chedworth    147
A Haunted Child  /  148
Bernini’s Bust of Charles 1  149
Legend of theLambtons of Durham    149
Bacon and Shakespeare. By Henry G. Atkinson,
F.G.S  149
Luminous Phenomena   150
The Earlier Spiritual Manifestations 150
Original Research in Sp’ritualism    160
What May be Known of God. By J. W. Farquhar 161
Correspondence :— Dr. Slade — Annihilation —
Test Mediumship in Paris—The British
National Association of Spiritualists and the
Press—What Truth is there in Astrology ?—
”■ The Late Prince Imperial  154,155
Answers to Correspondents   155
Paragraphs:— Abnormal Mental Powers; 147
Theatrical        155
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridoe and Co.
at the Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents.
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-ahove-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Harrison, 33, British Museum
street London W.C
