Registered as a Newspaper.
©iMf fyxty S^intualism in feat Britain,
No. 402.—(Yol. XYI.—No. 19.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOYEK PLACE, EEGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May he obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING- LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM! STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Will be Published in a few days, containing striking selections from the writings of Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Mb. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., Mr. A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., The Committee oe the Dialectical Society, Professor Hare, of Philadelphia,
Professor Zollner, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Captain R. F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The work will also oontain some useful information for inquirers.
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 83, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. fid. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-hook hy an Author who has had thirty years1 experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Fublisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, S3, Museum-street, London, W.C.
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 7, 1880,
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with- some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubneb and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Price Five Shillings, post free.
Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stemway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful .maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bays water, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE Any form
Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, JEeppel-street, Russe 11-square, W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Crown 8vo., pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Fall Mall
Gazette.
London : Tbubneb and Co., Ludoate Hill.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYOHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone road, Earls-court, S.W.
ASTROLOGY :—An Astrological
Map of the Heavens, shewing the true positions
of the bigns and Planets at time of of asking questions
(upon any subject.) Price 2s. 6d. Post Free. Three
questions answered free of charge with each map,
(N.B. Sixpenny or shilling stamps prefered.) Address,
Mr. H. DEE, Care of' Mr. Wilson, 1, Osborne Place,
Henry Street, Ladypool Lane, Sparkbrook, Binning,
ham.
rpo LET FURNISHED, Respect-
JL able and Healthy Apartments, overlooking the
Park. Suitable for two Gentlemen, (Friends or
Brothers), partial Board if required. Terms Moderate.
No Children. Five Minutes from Bus, Tram, or
Rail, 275, Grove Villas, Victoria Park Road, N.E.
References Required.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
A RUSS ANDREWS, Letterpress,
JT\. Copperplate and Lithographic Printer, 31,
Museum Street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Three do ora
from Great Russell Street.
A
LLEGORIOAL SKETCHES,
The Christmas No. of
“THE BETTER LIFE.”
Price Is. Gd.
Victoria Steam Press, 117, PraedStreet, London, W.,
flHIVA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\J WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Ea.thenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Orawford-street, Bryanston-square, London.
jt xrf ttf ^nnb uf ^pit[}teitfi$m+
No. 402.—YOLTJME SIXTEEN; NUMBER NINETEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 7th, 18 8 0.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
TAe Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni- I
cholas op Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
op Caithness
The Baroness Yon Vay, Coun¬
tess Wurmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Ishah, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Caldbr, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. OLoott, President
of the Theosophioal Society of
New York
Mrs. Maxdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne)
Captain John James
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Yon Dirokinck- Holm-
fkld (Holstein)
J, W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Fbiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
O.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,t’.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
H. D. Jenckbn, Esq., M.R.I. India
0 Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield, William White, Esq.
Didsbury, near Manchester | Miss Florence Marry at
J. T. Markley, Esq. Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 61. East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Beligio-JPhilosophieal Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
SPIRIT INFLUENCE UPON NORMAL
INDIVIDUALS.
If by research the power which spirits have,
or have not, of influencing normal human
beings, that is to say, those who are not
mediums in the ordinary sense of the word,
could he determined, the result would he of
world-wide interest. Yet few problems are
more difficult than this one, to attempt to
solve or by direct knowledge or experiment.
Some years ago at the seances of Mrs.
Volckman (formerly Mrs. Guppy) when as
many as thirty guests were assembled, and
seated in various parts of a large dark room,
it was a common thing for each to ask
the spirits in turn for some fruit or flower
which seized his fancy at the moment, and to
feel it placed in his hands the very moment
the request had fallen from his lips. One such
stance we recorded at the time, with the full
names and addresses of all the highly respect¬
able and trustworthy witnesses, accompanied
by the statement of each as to his various
requests and the way in which they had been
granted. Out of the fruits suddenly asked
for that evening, some were so rare as to make
it unreasonable to suppose it probable they
could he obtained anywhere within a radius
of two miles of the house at Holloway.
But supposing that they had been in the
house before the stance began, had the power¬
ful spirit influence prevailing on the premises
the power more or less to so influence the
minds of normal individuals, as to make them
ask for anything which suited the convenience
of the spirits at work ? Little is known of
the extent to which the unspoken thoughts of
one embodied or unembodied spirit can act
upon another, but all are familiar with the
phenomenon that two friends without speaking
to each other will sometimes think of the same
subject at the same instant, and the experience
is common that the moment a supposed far-ofl
friend is thought of, he will put in an
appearance.
Here, however, is a more definite case.
Some years ago, the late Mr. Benjamin Cole¬
man, of 1, Bernard Yillas, Upper Norwood,
218
was at a seance at Annandale, the residence of j)
a friend in the immediate locality. Mr. and K
Mrs. Guppy were there, and the hostess asked k
Mrs. Guppy to request the spirits to bring |<
something. This Mrs. Guppy declined to do, I;
on the ground that uncharitable people would \S
then of course say that it was produced from K
her pocket, so the company requested Mr. |?
Coleman to select some article to be brought if |)
possible from a distance. “ Well, Mr. Guppy,” I)
said Mr. Coleman, “I wish that the spirits js
would bring your hawk.” Mr. Guppy had a R
tame hawk in his house at Holloway, which |>
which was perhaps five or more miles in a jS
direct line from the place of the stance at j<
Upper Norwood. No sooner had the words R
been spoken than Mrs. Guppy screamed, say- j>
ing that the bird was there and she thought IS
that it was dead. A light was struck, and K
Mr. Guppy to his consternation saw his pet k
hawk, dead, and torn, and bleeding.
Next day, on his return to Holloway, he |>
made inquiries at home. Mrs. Parker, the Is
housekeeper, said that the night before she R
had occasion to unfasten the little chain of the R
hawk, and it escaped through the partly-opened j>
window in the dark night. Dreading Mr. Is
Guppy’s anger, she then searched around the k
garden, but saw nothing there but a cat, at R
which she threw a piece of brick. So far as I;
could be ascertained, the times of disappear- i
ance of the hawk at Holloway and its pro- K
duction at Upper Norwood, were the same k
within a few minutes.
In this case it can scarcely be supposed that j
the spirits loosened and killed the hawk, K
merely because Mr. Coleman had asked for its |?
production. The presumption rather is, that I)
Mrs. Guppy’s spirits saw the hawk killed by R
a cat, and in their concern at the destruction j<
of a family pet, had the power to put the idea |?
into the mind of Mr. Coleman to ask for it. |>
Mr. Coleman was no medium and no fanatic, IS
but a hard-headed city man; the witnesses s
were intelligent and critical people, and Mr. <
and Mrs. Guppy were staying in the house |>
as guests.
Are then our thoughts less under our own <
direction than they are supposed to be ? Per- R
haps some of our readers can furnish details l>
of well authenticated incidents bearing upon IS
this problem.
Swedenborg taught that the spirits of men jc
and of angels act and react upon each other as j?
urely as one planet acts upon another in ac- jS
ordance with the attraction of gravitation, Is
nd that if a man’s connection with the spirit Is
May 7, 1880.
world could be cut, he would die absolutely
and eternally ; it would be a case of annihila¬
tion.
SPIRITUALISM IN SALT LAKE CITY.
To the Editor of “ The Religio-Philosophical Journal,”
(Chicago, April \lth.)
This brief account of the mediumship of Mrs.
Margaret Hunt of this city, is offered for pub¬
lication as a matter of justice and gratitude to¬
wards a medium who has been the means of
doing much good by her various phases of
mediumship (consisting of clairvoyance, clair-
audience, inspiration and trance) in this far-off
u City of the Saints.” The following are some
of the tests recently given by Mrs. Hunt in her
weekly stances. The spirit of a lady was de¬
scribed by her who lately passed to spirit-life
in Australia. Entrancing the medium she held
a conversation with a gentleman present, identi¬
fying herself unmistakably by referring to mat¬
ters unknown to the medium, also stating that
she had manifested herself to a daughter residing
in California, which was not known to any person
present at the time, but which was afterwards
confirmed by a letter from said daughter.
The spirit of a little girl was described to a
lady who attended the circle for the first time,
and her name given, and the name of the doctor
who attended her in her last sickness. The
fact was mentioned that she had gathered some
wild roses shortly before her last sickness,
which was an excellent test of identity to the
mother. Another striking test was given to
a gentleman who was in business relations
with another person whom he supposed to be
alive and well in Colorado. The medium who
saw the spirit place his hand on the shoulder
of his friend, told him that he would hear
serious news from Cincinnati, which proved
to be true, for the individual spoken of died
very suddenly in Colorado, and was taken
home to his friends in Cincinnati, and from
there came the news that he had passed to
spirit-life. This was a striking test, for neither
the medium nor the person addressed were
cognisant of the facts given.
In testimony of the above we subscribe our¬
selves on behalf of the members of the circle.
Alfred Ward,
Thos. C. Armstrong, Sen.,
John Gunn,
Lucy Ward.
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Dr. Slade is still in Colorado, and is much pleased
with the enthusiasm his visit there has awakened in
the public mind. The newspapers are doing justice to
his mediumship.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 7, 1880.
THE SPIKITUALIST. 219
A THEOSOPHIST’S YIEW OF MAN’S POSITION
AND PROSPECTS *
BY "W. F. KIBBY.
Children of Maya, and living in more senses
than one in the Kali-Yug, how can we arrive
at truth; we who have no knowledge of the
absolute, nor any standard by which we can
attain to absolute truth ? Only, as it seems
to me, by ascertaining from the past and
present exactly where we stand.
The famous parable, propounded 1250 years
ago, on the occasion of the arrival of some of
the earliest Christian missionaries to the
English, at the court of King Edwin of
Northumberland, is as true now as on the day
when it was spoken. “ Truly the life of a
man in this world, compared with that life
whereof we wot not, is on this wise. It is
as when thou, 0 King, art sitting at supper with
thine Aldermen and thy Thanes in the time of
winter, when the hearth is lighted in the |
midst, and the hall is warm, but without the I
rains and the snow are falling and the winds j
are howling; then cometh a sparrow, and
flieth through the house, she cometh in by j
one door and goeth out by another. While |
she is in the house, she feeleth not the storm I
of winter, but yet, when a little moment of |
rest is passed, she flieth again into the storm, !
and passeth away from our eyes. So is it i
with the life of man, it is but for a moment, I
what goeth afore it, and what cometh after it, j
wot we not at all. Wherefore if these strangers |
can tell us aught, that we may know whence j
man cometh and whither he goeth, let us j
hearken to them and follow their law.”
It is doubtful whether the Teutonic tribes !
brought anything with them from the com- !
mon home of the Aryans in Central Asia, |
except exoteric fragments of some Oriental !
religion, nor does it appear that they were I
ever fully initiated, like their predecessors in j
Europe, and the Christian nations within the j
limits of the Roman Empire. But before I i,
trace down the growth of our present know- |J
ledge, I would point out that whereas the j<
seeds of many of the greatest advances in It
knowledge or intellectual development have
been sown among the Latins, they have borne jj
no fruit until transplanted to German soil.f I s
have just said that it is very doubtful whether H
the Teutonic nations were ever initiated, either I)
before their conversion to Christianity, or K
afterwards; and therefore they eagerly took K
* A paper read before the Theosophical Society, May 2nd, 1880. j(
f The Reformation, the Circulation of the Blood, and Modern I?
Astronomy may be mentioned in illustration. i(
9, up the great intellectual movement of the
sj Reformation. But the leaders of the Refor-
(j mation shared in the ignorance and bigotry of
their age, and endeavoured to bind all succeed-
$| ing ages down to a barren worship of the
s| letter, which has rendered Protestantism, espe-
cially in its more extreme forms, the baldest
>| and most exoteric of all religions. Yet, they
>| threw, open the Bible to all, and the light has
>1 truly shone amid the darkness, and the dark-
jj ness comprehended it not, for the more or less
>| hidden wisdom which it contains, especially
I that of the New Testament, has done much to
I counteract the evil tendency of the theology
! of the reformers. To digress for a moment,
! let me say that there are three very distinct
| meanings jumbled up in the English translation
j of the Gospels, under the word Heaven. In
| the synoptic Gospels the word is almost al-
j ways in the plural, (except where it means the
I sky) and is evidently used for the Spiritual
I Worlds. The second meaning, already men-
I tioned, is the sky. In this case the word is in
| the singular, and the meaning is obvious from
; the context. The third meaning is to be
found in the Gospel of John. Here the
word is in the singular, and usually denotes
the state whence Christ descended, and to
which he was to return, or in plain terms,
Nirvana.
But even in physical matters, the horizon
of Europeans 300 or 400 years ago was fear¬
fully contracted. The earth was of very
limited extent and duration to them; yet it
was the only important portion of the universe,
except Heaven and Hell. Their ideas were
even more cramped than those of the Moham-
madans, (narrow as is exoteric Mohamma-
danism), for the Arabs extended their voyages
to Spain, India, China, the Aru Islands, Zan¬
zibar, and Madagascar, and perhaps further;
and in addition to their regarding the earth as
of vast extent (far exceeding its real di¬
mensions), they had imported part of the
Indian metaphorical cosmogonies, which
greatly enlarged their ideas of the vastness of
the universe.*
At length, however, came Galileo and
I Columbus, and the real dimensions and
I character of the earth and the physical
! universe were discovered.
After this came Rationalism, demanding
| that all knowledge resting on authority
should produce its credentials. Its mission
j is to sweep away the falsities of the past to
I prepare for the future, and this work is as yet
i * See the story of Bulookiya, in the Arabian Nights,
220
THE SPI
incomplete. We can afford, however, to look
on calmly, for it is not our mission to destroy,
but to build up, and the Rationalistic plough
only prepares the soil for the good seed of
future progress.
Next came Geology, extending our view
backwards and forwards, far beyond the 6,000
years of the popular theology. Then came
the discovery of the antiquity of man, and of
principles of evolution, sweeping away the
materialistic interpretation of Genesis. Finally,
the discovery of spectrum analysis has estab¬
lished the unity of the physical universe,
and the rise of Spiritualism has opened before
us the vast horizons of the spiritual universe.
Nationally, we have everything to encourage
us. We are not a race that has retrograded,
and although the earlier civilisations may
have risen to a higher level than our own,
yet we are a new people, risen within a very
few centuries from utter barbarism to the
station which we occupy at present.
But we cannot get rid so easily of the con¬
tracted ideas which prevailed until, as it
were, yesterday, respecting space and time.
Just as our Christian brethren, without ex¬
ception, look forward to earn “ Heaven ” by
one well-spent life, so are we too liable to
look to Nirvana as attainable by the single
sustained effort of a single life. We do not
consider that we inhabit a very small and very
inferior world, and that our arm is still too
short to reach the sun, but like blind men
restored to sight, we think we can touch any¬
thing we can see. Even as regards the
material universe, I think I am much within
the mark in saying that a pea placed in the
middle of one of our largest parks - would not
more than represent the proportion borne by
our earth to the solar system alone. Beyond
the system it would take 200,000 years to
count the number of miles to the nearest
fixed star.
You will ask me, what of the accomplished
union with God, of which the mystics speak ?
This, I think I can explain by referring to
Swedenborg, who says that in some of the
inferior planets, the inhabitants are permitted to
worship the angel, (or the society of angels)
appointed to rule over them. In another
passage, he says that the higher the society,
the more it appears to the angels that they act
of themselves, but the more certainly they
know that they speak and act from the Lord
alone; that is, as I take it, from the society
next above them, through which the divine
influx descends to them. Again, there is
RITUALIST. May 7, 1880.
K| understood to be perfect communion of thought
m and feeling within the higher societies, so that
the thought or act of any member is felt as
| | the thought or act of all. Hence it would
jsl seem to any man who succeeded in placing
Kj himself temporarily en rapport with such a
])| society, that he had become one with God;
Kj and his feelings would be practically incom-
Rj municable to anyone who had had no similar
m experience. If this view is correct, it will go
j<j far to explain such ideas as absorption of
jsj individuality, which are often used without any
kj very clear and definite sense being attached to
11 them.
Again, very few generations separate the
Kj savage from the sage. The links have existed,
Kj but on looking back through history they
?j shade away. Shall one material existence,
Kj even on earth, be sufficient for our develqp-
!<! ment, if it requires material existence at all ? *
id Infinite are the phases of human life, even
j j here, nor could any two existences be other
Kj than widely different. Hence a new earthly
jcj existence would be to all intents and purposes
1 as new a life as the transfer from one spiritual
Id society to another. And there must be a still
K greater difference between planet and planet,
jsj Let us look rather to slow and sure steps for
j advancement, than attempt to scale the
|>| Heavens at a bound, and Ihus repeat the error
i}i of the Christians. The earth is, (as the Arabs
Id say, speaking of the habitable portion of the
d earth, compared with their idea of what is
> uninhabited) as a tent in a desert; and within
Kj the vast limits of the solar system, there
jsj must be, around and beyond the material
j worlds, worlds within worlds of spiritual
)| universes, all which lie before us, as we pass
j;j to and fro, first between the earth and its
Kj dependent spheres (for I greatly doubt if we
id are really in communication with any spirit-
>j ual spheres at all, except those immediately
j dependent on the earth), and then from planet
<j to planet, our residence in each planet, in-
jd eluding residence in its dependent spheres,
>j till we reach the suns, and thus:
I7
“ From star to star,
From world to luminous world, as far
As the universe stretches its flaming wall.”
j But beyond the earths, beyond the spheres,
| beyond the sun, beyond Sirius, beyond Alcyone,
l)j lies Nirvana, the state of the pure spirits, far
jSj above any material or even fluidic world, and we
j<j are told that when aBuddha is about to attain it,
* Dir. Temple has shown us that the development of the race is
d as the development of the individual, aud must not the converse
•id be true, and the development of the individual be as that of the
ill race P
221
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 7, 1880.
he would spurn from him with utter scorn the
offer of becoming the king of a Deva-Loka,
(one of the highest spiritual worlds), for a
hundred million years; or any other con¬
ceivable blessedness, in exchange, although
his power over the material universe has be¬
come practically infinite,
“ Take all the pleasures of all the spheres,
And multiply each through endless years;
One minute of Heaven is worth them all.,,
Truly, we yet stand low, very low on one of
the rungs of Jacob’s ladder, with its foot in
the primeval nebula, and its head in Nirvana.
Let us not suppose that one good life can
deserve Nirvana, any more than one evil life
can deserve eternal suffering.
Howitt once scoffed at a visit to all the
worlds in the universe as u rather a long jour¬
ney.” Granted, but what matters time or
space to us if we have an eternal existence
before us ? All our lives must be connected
together; and when we enter a world, we
bring our capacities, and I doubt not, our
friends with us. The universe being held to¬
gether by bonds of sympathy, shall it not be
the case with spirits from life to life ? But I
doubt if spiritual affinity depends on sex.
Without caring to go into details, I may say
that as I interpret well-known facts of phy¬
siology, sex is a mere bodily accident, and not
inherent in the spirit. Here, in states of
society where the sexes are on a comparative
equality, we regard the deepest affection as
conjugal; but where this is not the case, in
ancient and especially in Eastern countries,
the deepest affections we read of are not al¬
ways so. It is clear that Achilles was far
more sincerely attached to Patroclus than to
Briseis, and that David was far more attached
to Jonathan than to Michal. The deepest
affection, too, may sometimes exist between
relatives; as in the curious instance cited by
Miss Blackwell, of a mother and daughter,
who were so deeply attached that when the
former died, she immediately sought and ob¬
tained permission to reincarnate herself as her
daughter’s child.
Let us not be led astray by the contracted
horizons and the narrow ideas of the past, but
let us look upon the past and future as be¬
comes beings with infinite possibilities before
us, in an infinite universe, if we will only free
ourselves from prejudice, and work and wait
patiently, without hoping for or grasping at
everything at once.
ADDITIONAL NOTE.
It is sometimes argued that the other planets, |
and much more the suns, are too hot or too
cold to support life; but I think it more
reasonable to believe that all, or nearly all the
planets are inhabited by beings adapted to
their physical condition. Still less can I sup¬
pose life to be absent in the suns, themselves
the centres of life to the planets around them.
They are probably the abode either of the
spirits controlling the systems, or of spirits
not wholly free from the last link binding them
to the materiality of the system which they at
present inhabit.* Even the prose Edda tells us
that “ those not indigenous thereto cannot en¬
ter Muspellheim.” Of course nothing material
as we understand the word could inhabit even
the superior planets, much less the suns.
 ♦ 
DIVINATION.
BY HENRY GK ATKINSON, F.G.8., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS
TO MISS MARTTNEAU.”
A straw shows the way the wind blows.
No doubt Sir Walter Scott always tries to ex¬
plain psychical matters away, since, if believed
in accordance with their seeming import, they
would, to the apprehension of “the enlightened
public,” appear to be superstitious, and as per¬
haps a weak point in bir Walter’s otherwise
clear understanding. But whether Scott was
sincere always in those explanations, or was
writing more in reference to and in deference
k| to prevailing ideas is not certain, though I am
llj surprised that no reference to the matter is
!j to be found in his diary which might throw
! light on the question as to Scott’s real belief.
I His introducing such subject matter in his
| writings goes for nothing, any more than his
j|>j introducing religious fanatics can be regarded
Is as any evidence of his own religious convic-
k| tions. However, the following entry in the
!>j diary was curious.
It was soon after his failure and total wreck
I of all his fortune, and while in the utmost dis-
j tress on account of his wife’s illness, who died
?j shortly afterwards.
April 3rd, 1826.
“ I have the extraordinary and gratifying news that
cl * Woodstock’ is sold for £8228,all ready money, a match-
S less sale for less than three months’ work. If ‘ Napoleon ’
)i (the life) does as well, or near it, it will put the trust
cj affairs in high flourish. Four or five years of leisure
; i and industry would, with such success, amply replace
c I my losses. I have a curious fancy: I will go and set
sj two or three acorns, and judge by their success in grow-
/i ing whether I shall succeed in clearing my way or not.”
Here is a great man, so intellectual and wise,
>j such an acute observer of men and manners,
sj and one would say of clear and supreme com¬
mon sense, yet at the advanced age of 63,
The Gods and their avators are always symbolised by the sun.
222 THE S PI El
and when under the influence of most distressing ;;
domestie anxiety and overwhelmed by the Is
weight of adverse circumstances—by ruin, in K
fact—indulging in such a childish fancy, such R
a newly invented trial of fortune. Whether |;
such superstitious advent ures were comm on with |s
him we are not told. I should think not by k
the wording of the idea. However, if the u
circumstance will aid Mr. Campbell to elucidate |
the affair concerning George Bullock’s death, j<
and the corresponding noises heard by Scott j
the same night, at Abbotsford, or will enable ;
him better to judge in respect to Scott’s pre- k
disposition towards the belief in the super- js
natural or preternatural, the incident as re- \i
corded is at his service.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, May 4th, 1880.
 « 
SPONTANEOUS MATEBIALISATIONS.
BY W. EGLINTON.
The following well authenticated narratives j<
of spontaneous apparitions or materialisations |
may be of interest to your readers. In the |
Castle of Kammerburg, at Beneschau, in Bo- i
hernia, belonging to Prince K , are records R
of the ancestors of the present descendant, I
which date back some five hundred years. |
The manuscript has been handed down from I
father to son, each one in his turn making |
contributions to it. In the year 1750 is re- I
corded a journey which the great-grandfather I
of the present Prince took to Naples when a k
young man, and the incidents occurring to |
him during his absence from home. It is j
mentioned that while attending the carnival in I
the above-named city, everyone being in mask, I
a man stepped up to the Prince, and touching I
him on the shoulder, said u Go home: your j
father is just dead.” Before the Prince could I
question him, the man disappeared, and think- i
ing someone was playing a joke upon him, the \(
Prince took no more notice of the matter, he I
having left his father in good health when he i
set out upon his journey. The following day, K
however, when the carnival was at its height, I
the same man appeared by his side, and again j
touching his shoulder, repeated “Your father js
is dead,” and disappeared as mysteriously as I
before. On the third day, the man again ap- j
preached him, making his former statement j
that the Prince’s father was dead; whereupon ;,
the Prince rushed at the man and tried to grasp I
him, but be disappeared as on the previous k
occasions. After the Carnival had terminated, J;
the Prince went home, his father’s estate being js
distant fourteen or fifteen days’ journey from k
Naples. Upon his arrival, he was informed 6
that his father was dead; and the date of his |>
T U A L I S T. May 7, 1880.
decease coincided exactly with the first appear¬
ance of the strange man at Naples. There
were no telegraphs or railways in those days.
The second and third instances occurred in
the castle above named. Three days after his
marriage, on the 17th June, 1871, the present
Prince took his wife there. The same day,
about midnight, the Princess was alone in her
boudoir, dressing her hair, when she heard
somebody enter the room (which adjoins the
chapel of the castle) and, walking up to her,
he—or it—touched her upon the shoulder.
Thinking it was the Prince, her husband, she
said u Oh, Karl, why do you frighten me ? ”
but upon receiving no reply, and feeling another
pressure of a hand, she looked round and saw
nothing, but distinctly heard someone leave the
room. Her shrieks brought her husband and
the domestics into her chamber, and upon com¬
municating what she had heard and felt, he had
every corner of the castle searched, even to the
vaults of the chapel (in which are the remains
of the ancestor to whom occurred the previous
incident), but without finding any clue to the
person who had entered his wife’s room. Some
months after this visitation, the Princess had
occasion to go into her bed-room at noon, ac¬
companied by two dogs, one a deer-hound, the
other a king Charles. As soon as she entered
the room, both dogs began to howl and yelp
most piteously, and their hair stood on end as
if they were in great terror. The king Charles,
however, ran up to the bed (which had curtains
round it, concealing the interior) and began to
bark vigorously. The Princess saw the curtains
move, as if someone were behind them, and
thinking it was a robber, she rushed from the
room to summon aid. She returned with her
husband and the servant almost immediately,
but found nothing to account for the dis¬
turbance. The only exit from the room was
the one taken by the Princess, so that nobody
could have escaped without passing her or the
servants.
These incidents were related to me by the
Prince and Princess K , (to whom they oc¬
curred) in the presence of Baron Hellenbach
and Prince Heinrich Lichtenstein. As I have
an invitation to visit the scene of these haunt-
ings, I may be able to discover the cause of the
disturbances.
Vienna, April 23rd, 1880.
 + 
Mr. 0. E. Williams, writes that at a Spiritualistic
meeting to be held at 5, Field View, London Fields,
next Sunday in the evening, experiments will be
performed with some physical and clairvoyant mesmeric
sensitives.
Mat 7, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
223
THE NEWCASTLE SPIRITUAL EVIDENCE !<
SOCIETY.
The quarterly meeting of the Newcastle-upon-Tyne j)
Spiritual Evidence Society, was held on Monday even- K
ing last week; there was a good attendance of members, i;
and Mr. John Mould officiated as chairman. The ic
minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed. | S
The Corresponding Secretary (Mr. H. A. Kersey) read ;/
the quarterly report, which shewed that there were 151 <
members who had fully paid up their subscriptions, 15 n
honorary members, and 3 life members. It stated the I)
lectures have been held regularly, and consisted of 25 K
trance and 5 normal addresses. The quarter closed i)
with public meetings for trance tests and clairvoyance |)
by Mr. F. 0. Matthews, which were probably the last :<
of such meetings held by him before his recent im- i)
prisonment at Keighley for exercising well-known
mesmeric gifts, which the magistrates held to be a is
breach of the law. The Committee, it added, had adop- i >
ted a petition to the Home Secretary, as suggested by |<
Mr. J. W. Fletcher, and at present there are about 90 |
Meta in circulation for the purpose of procuring the j)
necessary signatures. The Committee said that it K
earnestly trusted that Spiritualists would co-operate 1)
with it in its efforts. The phenomena being facts of na- j<
ture, had no right to be made an offence against the law. i
The seances of Miss Wood had been held regularly i)
under the strictest test conditions; she had held 35 |<
stances at which the attendance had been 864 as against iS
784 during the previous quarter; the phenomena were j)
good, but not nearly so regular in evolution as those of i<
the earlier period.
The Committee has re-engaged Mr. Morse for another k
twelve months, which is his fifth annual engagement is
in succession.
The following is an abridgment of the treasurer’s !<
account:—
£ « I £ s d \)
To Collections, &c. 41 1 3| [ By Balance due Trea-
,, Subscriptions ... 7 10 6
,, Tickets to seances
for Visitors ... 0 5 6
,, Collected for Mr.
Matthews’defence 8 16 0
„ Balance due Trea¬
surer... ... 23 1 8 J
£80 15 0£
The librarian reported that there were 209 volumes j?
in the library, of which 175 had been issued during the is
quarter.
The report was passed, and after the transaction of i (
some minor business, the meeting terminated.
The Ruxxng Passion Strong in Death.—Paris, March j)
27th.—Padro Ambrogio, a worthy Neapolitan monk, i>
enjoyed a reputation as a clairvoyant. He was be- \(
lieved to be able to predict the winning number in is
lotteries, which are such an important factor in Italian j)
life. A month ago Father Ambrogio was waylaid by i(
suspicious characters, who beat him and shut him up
because he refused to risk a prophecy about the Naples i -
lottery. At last, to save his life, he consented. He i
named the numbers haphazard, which did not win. 1)
His persecutors, being furious, beat him again, and k
finally left him dying at the house of a friend, who j)
transferred him to the hospital. Here he shortly after i)
died- Before his death he was consulted by an acquain- i <
tance, who was also desirous of a “tip” about a lottery, j)
Ambrogio advised him to play 13, 65, 37. At the k
next drawing all the numbers came out. In conse- K
uence the Naples lottery administration lost about !)
1,000,000.—Toronto Globe. \\
sorer last qua., 18 11 24
„ Salares, Fees, ex¬
penses &o. ... 36 10 10
,, Advertising, Bent
&c 8 13 10
„ Miscellaneous ex¬
penses... ... 8 3 2
,, Mr.Matthews’ funds 16 0
£80 15
DR. W. B. CARPENTER AND HIS BROTHERS.
The following letter, bearing the initials of
Mr. Epes Sargent, the American author, was
published in the Boston Daily Transcript, of
April 10th:—
To the Editor of The Transcript.
Sir,—Your correspondent u "W\,” in the
Transcript of March 30th, seems to think that
Dr. William B. Carpenter is a better authority
against certain phenomena which he has not
seen, than Mr. William Crookes, the chemist,
is in behalf of certain phenomena which he
has seen. My present object is simply to call
attention to what Dr. Carpenter’s two brothers
—Philip Pearsall Carpenter and Bussell Lant
Carpenter—have to say on the subject of
Spiritualism, so distasteful and incredible to
u W.” and to his Magnus Apollo, Dr. William
B. Carpenter.
Within the month there has appeared in
London u Memoirs of the Life and Works of
Philip Pearsall Carpenter, B. A., London, Ph. D.
New York, chiefly derived from his letters,
edited by his brother, Russell Lant Carpenter,
B.A. London: C. Kegan Paul, 1880.” In
this memoir I find the following passage in
regard to Mr. P. P. Carpenter :
“ Not long after he heard of the death of a
little son of Mr. I. Moulding, who seemed full
of health and happiness when he had visited
him. He was thunderstruck, and felt like
David when ‘ he was astonished for an hour.’
When after some time, he was able to write to
his dear friend, he says ‘ As for me, I have
left off believing in deaths, so-called. The
spiritual world appears to me close and near.
Judging from all accounts, there are only a few
hours, or days at most, before the spirit wakes
up again. I believe my deprivation of home
sympathies has made me live more in the
spiritual fworld, from which I feel separated
only by a veil of flesh I feel as though it
would never surprise me to find that I had
died and was there ; it often seems more natu¬
ral than the present state. In old times when
I believed in an external heaven, and thought
we left off being men and became some queer
kind of undefined angels, it was not so. Now
I feel it to be a waking-up of the same human¬
ity without the hindrances of flesh . . .
In my intercourse with the Spiritualists it is
evident to me that they do not mourn for death
like orthodox Christians, whose heaven is
more ideal than real. They really do believe
that their friends are living happily and have
intercourse with them. About this medium
work I care very little ; its principal use is to
224
THE SPIRITUALIST.
teach the reality of things unseen; and it must
be a fery imperfect thing, at best, because it
is only the lowest elements of their nature
that can communicate with the highest of ours.
But for us all to look on the next state as an
absolute continuation of this, only in a far
purer and in every way better sphere, is good
for us all, and especially for those who have
treasures in heaven.”
From this it would seem that Dr. Carpen¬
ter’s brother Philip, eminent as a naturalist,
and one of whose works is now being printed
by the Smithsonian Institution at Washington,
Was a thorough Spiritualist; and if any
further proof of it should be asked for, it may
be found in the following foot-note, appended
to the foregoing quotation by his brother, the
editor of the Memoir :
“ In the summer he had attended a circle of
4 mediums ’ at Plymouth, Mass., and had been
subsequently introduced to Mrs. Underhill,
formerly of Bochester, then of Hew York, by
Mr. Garrison, with whom he spent an evening,
of which he gave a full account; he believed
that he then received messages from the de¬
parted.”
It is barely possible that Dr. Carpenter’s
brother Philip, having investigated the subject,
may have been as good authority in regard to
it as the doctor, who did not investigate.
E. S.
SPIRIT FORMS IN NEWCASTLE.
Last Sunday morning’s seance, held in the
rooms of the Newcastle Spiritual Evidence
Society, was so highly satisfactory, that I
feel constrained to furnish your readers with
ah account of it. Before doing so, I should
like to say that the most continuous and
systematic enquirers into the subject of modern
Spiritualism whom I have met, admit that
there is not really anything more wonderful
in the phenomena observed in the seance room
than those which are observed in the routine of
daily life. It is not the motion per se of a
table, nor a clairvoyant’s delineation of facts
occurring at a distance which is so impressive,
but what we are impressed with is the occurrence
of phenomena under apparently impossible
conditions; therefore, when form manifestations
are witnessed, it is not the form seen which is
So highly prized, as a knowledge of the fact
that what is seen and felt is not actively
produced through human agency solely.
I have described the cabinet in previous
cdmmuliications, but for the benefit of those
readers who may not have seen it, I may
Mat 7, 1880.
|>f just briefly state that the word a closet,”
m rather than the term 44 cabinet,” conveys a
(\ clearer and a more correct idea of the con-
! ! struction used for form manifestations, wherein
| the medium is placed and effectually fastened
| from the outside, and from which closet there
I is no possible chance of her escaping without
] its declaring itself. I may further add that
j the closet in question was constructed by order
| and under the supervision of the committee of
I the Society, and without any further reference
| to the medium than providing conditions for
I her comfort. Another essentially important
I step towards complete investigation is that
| the closet is erected on premises over which the
| medium has no control. Besides, at the close of
|| each sitting it is locked, and the key retained
| by the manager of the circle, so that it may
| not be tampered with by either friends or
I foes.
On the occasion already referred to, eleven
j persons were present, besides the medium,
| who was escorted to the closet, the door of
| which closed on her entrance, and was effect-
>j ually fastened from the outside by two screws.
)l After we had been sitting half-an-hour quietly
I conversing with Miss Wood, the medium, who
[| was apparently in an entranced condition, a
;l nebulous mass of white appeared on the otiter-
s| side of the curtains used to screen the light
u from falling on the medium. We patiently
)j observed the lateral and perpendicular move-
)| ment of the mass, until it reached a height of
s j about five feet and-a-half, when it then ap-
a proached and shook hands with each of the
I eleven persons present. I requested the
i tangible form to pose itself near a closed stove
| in the room, at a distance of about three and-
a-half feet from the curtains ; complying with
>| the request, it placed itself about midway
>| between the curtains and stove, and after
.! standing apparently motionless for a minute or
two, we desired it to vanish as quickly as
; possible from the spot on which it was then
Si standing, and without moving in the direction
<1 of the curtains. On expressing our desire
H we continued our observations when the form
>| (still apparently perfectly motionless and very
y\ like a Grecian statue) exhibited slight move-
<1 ment for a few seconds, as if waves were
o passing over the whole structure; then it sud-
>| denly became invisible, Although it did not
S| move in the direction of the curtains, I could
si not undertake to determine in which way it
\\ disappeared, further than that, after the dis-
Sj integration of the structure we observed a resi-
j\ duum of white, like the nebulous mass which
225
Mat 7, 1880, THE 8 P I
first caught our attention, and simultaneously
a voice was heard from the inner side of the
curtain crying that it had no robes to clothe
itself with. We desired the voice to repeat
the experiment we had just witnessed, upon
which, very decided movements were seen
going on in the residuum of white that had
been left behind, the white substance gradually
becoming brighter and denser and more ex¬
pansive, until it was so folly developed that
we heard the voice (previously behind the
curtain) speaking to us from the little
form now inside the drapery. After the cus¬
tomary shake of the hands it withdrew behind
the curtains, and in a few minutes more Miss
Wood, still apparently in an entranced con¬
dition, told us she could do nothing more
and allowed us to increase the light to the
utmost capacity of the burner. We then
examined the closet and found Miss Wood
as we placed her in the inside with the
door effectually fastened by the two screws on
the outside.
We are fortunately situated in possessing
Miss Wood as a medium, as she invites
rather than discourages the application of tests
when she is approached in a respectful man¬
ner ; and although a great many persons dis¬
approve their application, as a matter of fact
I have found, when any so-called exposure has
occurred, those persons who have gathered their
facts under unanswerable conditions pursue
the even tenor of their way, whereas those
who have followed the easier method of faith,
pass through the most painful fluctuations of
feeling. Jno. Mould.
12, St. Thomas Cresent, Newcdstle-oii-Tyne, 21st April, 1880.
 —  —
SOME OF THE KELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM.
BY ISABEL DE STEIGER.
(Concluded.)
Modem Spiritualism, even in its best form,
is but a step in the right direction ; but as it
now is it can never reform mankind. It must
lead us on to a higher platfoim than that on
which we are now standing. At present,
while still sunk low in our materialism, we
are trying to contemplate angels, when we
ought first to reach the higher platform by the
elevation and awakening of our own spirits;
as it is, we can only sink on our knees in utter
abasement and cry for wisdom; for not until we
know the strength and potency of the spirit
of man incarnated on earth now, can we under¬
stand that of disembodied ones, and still less,
can we know that of angels. Nearly all
Spiritualists feel that there is abundant proof
RITUALIST.
lu that spirit pervades all matter, and that matter
Kj may be potent or impotent according to the
k| spirit power permeating it; in addition we
| know, or think we know, that heaven is among
|p us and hell also, so why should we spend our
s| time in seeking after fresh proofs of this?
Kj Our great business first is to make ourselves
k| receptive to spirit power. Self-development,
1)1 in short the reform of the individual, the
Kj evolution of our own divine nature, the recog-
k ! nition of the practical necessity that man can-
j!> i not be fed by bread alone, but that if we wish to
p; be wise, and good, and true, we must seek
Kj the necessary food for that part of our nature,
jcj We have found out that our five senses are
|p not all that belong to us, that others are
ip latent, and therefore we feel that we need to
•Kj be bom again; then the senses of the spirit,
Kj counterparts of those of the body, will be open
|p to us. ( .
Now this new birth and the necessity for a
m pure mind in a pure body, are not as yet
<1 central doctrines of Spiritualism. Indeed,
jp Spiritualism has happily formed no doctrine or
>| code, it has simply helped us oh With a power-
|(j ful hand, and now it tells iis that there is a
jp higher religion coming, and this is the wisdom
jp religion of the archaic times to be born once
jp more among us. We have seen that there has
1j ever been a golden thread held fast by each
j nation which connected all with the golden
j age; and there have been ever glowihg
j beacons from time to time, showing us the
! glimmering of that golden thread. The hills
j have been weary and the valleys dark and cold,
| the thread has been dull and frayed, but it
hj has never been broken ; firmly held by groups
Kj of wise men here and there, the majority hate
|p always wandered off into the desert; but the
jp time is coming when the wanderers shall
ip return. Modern Spiritualism is the new
jp beacon which gathers men in from all parts,
jp and by and bye, from Spiritualism they will
Ip be led to Theosophy, and Theosophy paves the
Kj way from East and West, and makes straight
|p the highway to our birthrights. As it stands
jp at present, it appears to me that the Spiritual-
jp ism of to-day, or the study of Soul phenomena
Kj and all the mysteries of astral power, is but
j| the introduction to better things. We are
I yet confused and bewildered with the multi-
| tude of facts, as lately was so well said here;
Kj and we vainly think to correct this by corre-
jp lating, tabulating these facts, for this alone
jp would not help us ; we must have the key
|| to Understanding spirit and astral power;
ip this key we have Strting or Weak iii each of iis
226
THE SPIKITUALIST. May 7, 1880.
if we only /cnew how to use it. As it is, we
demonstrate to the outside gaping multitude,
that the spiritual phenomena of to-day are one
and the same, akin to the miracles of the past;
and then we gape ourselves; we begin to have
vague ideas that what the disembodied spirit
can do, the embodied one ought to do; condition
cannot annul power, hut it may make it latent,
and we find that we are hut blind leaders
of the blind. We begin therefore to see and
understand that spiritual things must he
spiritually discerned, and that the eyes of our
spirit must first he opened before the spirit
world will be plain to us. This hidden science,
the understanding of the powers of the spirit,
the study of spiritual laws, is therefore the
divine science coming to our rescue, the
religion of the future. Spiritualism must be
more rightly judged and placed in its proper
rank, and mediumship, now martyrdom, and
all its present mysteries and inharmonies,
must be understood and appreciated justly by
those who, adepts into the divine science, will
try the spirits truly. It will therefore neither
have the cruel and ignorant repression that
it now has, neither also its wrong position
and exaltation in spiritual matters. A medium
being passive must nlways be subordinate to
an adept who is positive. There is, therefore,
a grand hope for the human race, when this
long repressed reason shall burst out, when it
shall examine the magnificent laws of
nature gradually unfolding to the student of
the real wisdom religion. There will be no
doctrine that will not challenge and delight
the highest intelligence. The wisest man
will be the most religious, and the most religious
the wisest. The transcendent powers of man
will again shine forth when he has once more
gained the haven of man, his own inheritance;
and to this great future, I say it is the mission of
modern Spiritualism to guide us. Helping
hands will be held out in all directions, when
we say we want them, and the time is not far
distant when we shall knock at the door and
the door will be opened to us.
 —♦ 
The last number of The Spiritualist ran out of print in three days,
in consequence of the extra demand always produced by the be¬
ginning of the London season, but the extent of which rise cannot
be foreseen. Copies may be had now, by those who want them,
out of a few unsold returned by the retail trade.'
A cntCTJiiAR has been issued by the Council of the
National Association of Spiritualists, saying that at
the annual general meeting to be held on the 18th
May, it will recommend the dissolution of the present
Council, and that a new one of thirty-six members
shall be elected. This is in response to a recent
memorial intimating that a Council of twenty was
amply large enough for any society containing only
between three or four hundred members altogether.
I] Spiritualism in Leith.—At the Leith Young Men’s
i Society, held in Duke Street, on Friday evening, the
| 23rd inst, under the presidency of Mr. Robert Hall,
j Junr., a paper was read by a member, Mr. Cuthbertson,
! on Spiritualism, giving a brief outline of the phenomena
I together with a description of several stances he has
)j attended in Edinburgh and Glasgow, with such
(j mediums as Mrs. Mellon, Mr. J. J. Morse, and Mr.
)j Duguid. The subject elicited a fair amount of im-
) | partial criticism, but it was thought that the essayist
s | ought not to have left them in the dark as to his private
)j opinions in regard to the source of the phenomena.
(j Mr. Rhodes as a non-member, being present by in-
\ | vitation, was requested to give his experience. Having
) | done so as briefly as time would permit, he defended
(| the essayist for not having given any decided opinion
Sj upon the few stances he had attended, as many in-
) | fluential men, including Mr. Crookes, and the late Mr.
(| Serjeant Cox, with all their experience, had not con-
) | sidered themselves justified in publicly ascribing the phe-
c | nomena—which were undoubtedly genuine—to spirits.
\\ He also thanked them for the courteous manner in
)| which they had received him, the only Spiritualist
\ i present. Mr. Cuthbertson, in reply, stated that he was
) | not prepared to admit himself to be a Spiritualist, nor
c | equally so a Materialist; he invited them to follow the
) i rules in The Spiritualist, and study for themselves.
11 Sunday Lectures on Spiritualism.—On Sunday last
>| Mr. Herbst lectured at Goswell Hall on “ The Organ-
|| ization of Spiritualists.” The speaker said that he
) j deplored the present want of harmony in Spiritualism ;
>j he thought that Spiritualism suffered more from the
M hands of Spiritualists, than from persecution from
) \ outsiders. Organization was the great want felt in
> | Spiritualism at the present time; not a bigoted
j | and selfish organization, but one so constructed as to
> i suit all lines; one that would progress according to the
} i discovery of new truths. It was no doubt appropriate
) i some hundreds of years ago for a certain organized sec-
) I tion to scatter broadcast the doctrine of eternal dam-
(| nation, but to-day the public mind was taught to think
)| for itself, and reason rejected such monstrous teachings,
) I so either would that organization have to alter its
(i antiquated views regarding a subject or crumble to dust
>i on its own bigoted foundation. He suggested the
) i formation of secret circles in various places, all acting
(| in concord and under a recognized body or council, and
> j that from those circles not only sceptics but also casual
(j visitors should be excluded, so that by giving mediums
S | a chance to develope new powers, conditions would be
\ i provided that sooner or later would reward the move-
\j ment with powerful phenomena and indisputable tests.
) i He argued that with strict attention to the foregoing
(i plan, and with regularity and punctuality, not only the
\ j mediums but the sitters would develope mentally or
)j physically according to their organizations. Mr.
< i Herbst next called on Mr. A. T. T. Peterson to say
>| something with reference to the subject of the evening.
) j Mr. Peterson agreed with the observations of Mr.
(i Herbst and described to the audience his last seance.
) i Afterwards Mr. Peterson,MessrsReimers,Wortley, Towns
c i and Swindon, were called upon to make a few remarks.
) i They all agreed with the sentiments of the lecturer, who
(i concluded with thanking both Mr. Rapier and his
(| choir for their services. On Sunday next, Mr. Reimers
H will read a paper at Goswell Hall. Subject: “The
ji Medium Prosecutions and recent Objectionable Ob-
)| jections.” Sceptics were particularly invited to attend.
G Mr. Rapier’s choir will officiate every Sunday evening
) | at Goswell Hall. Mr. Herbst has been asked to take
) I the place of Mr. Stevens (resigned) as secretary to the
11 Goswell Hall Committee, and he has consented.
May 7, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
227
IRRATIONAL ASCETICISM.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
My admiration is sincere for the remarks
of an anonymous correspondent of yours, who
recently wrote against ascetic teachings in
connection with Spiritualism. It was indeed
refreshing, after so many lifts into the upper
regions, to he put down in that way to good
mother earth ; even the more or less un¬
musical noises of the farm yard do not grate
ou our ears after the luxuries of celestial
choruses. With deepest reverence I have
read about the heroic gymnastics, the self-
torture of those devoted souls, who in develop¬
ing Spirituality are trying to part with
11 natural cravings,” but I cannot accept this
example as one calling for general imitation,
unless, as your correspondent justly observes,
the creation be not taken as a mistake. In
the climax of these reflections, I had a dream,
in which I saw an ascetic “ saint ” enter
Heaven, evidently expecting a reserved seat
among the elect. But an angel gently held
him back, saying: “Your honest devotion,
my son, pleased us, but we would not have you
turn away from the beauties of our dear earth;
you have to complete your appreciation of the
works of God, by going back to earth and
enjoying the pleasures He intended for all.
Stick to my brave servant, Martin Luther, and
take note of his inspired proverb, c Wer nicht
licit Wein, Weil und Gesang, der lleibt ein Narr
sein Lelelang? ” I cannot undertake to trans¬
late on the spur of the moment these celebrated
words to my own satisfaction, still less to that
of others, but here is an attempt: “ He who
does not love vine, the fair sex and song, will
be a fool his lifetime long.” Now if we take
“ vine ” as a symbol of cheering recreations in
general, and regard our fair companions as
messengers of true, pure love, and think of
song, as the blending and harmonising of divine
arts, we find Three Graces trusted to our
loving [care. These cannot be forced out of
the garden of earth-life, without offending the
Sender of them. If brutish excesses of in*
dulgence shock spiritually refined human
beings on the road of progress, overstraining
in the opposite direction, by acquiring a kind
of aristocratic contempt for natural propen¬
sities, may likewise be out of the way of truth,
and at all events will not meet the approbation
of the Creator. It will be interesting to watch
the course of the warmly advocated theories
of “self-abnegation” in Germany, where
these foregoing Three Graces are as yet fondly
courted, although here and there some people
are trying to live entirely on vegetables and
tarts. Let us hope that the most sensible and
opportune remarks of your correspondent “ S.”
will attract admirers of the beauties of earth-
life, and that they will recognise in Spiritual¬
ism an additional light, in that it encourages
us to deserve a hereafter by wisely enjoying
here what was given to that end.
47, Mornington Road, London.
 ♦ 
\Oreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; copies
should he kept hy the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.] — - -
SIR WALTER SCOTT AND THE SUPERNATURAL.
Sir,—I called Terry a London litterateur because it
was in that character mainly that he was known to
Scott.
The contrast between him and Morrison consisted in
the one haying lived his life in the society of loungers
and literati, among the fanes of Western London,
while the other lived his in the society of sheep and
shadows, among the wilds of Southern Scotland. That
Terry was an actor at the Adel/phi, and Morrison a
simple person who as likely as not had never been
inside a theatre in his life, would serve only to
strengthen it.
But my business was not with Terry and his “genius,”
and only incidentally with his temper and surroundings ;
neither was it with G-eorge Bullock, except in so far as
his name is connected with the occurrence in question.
My explanatory statement that he made ugly casts for
Scott’s dining room is true, and I really cannot help
his having been Mr. Atkinson’s godfather. My
business was and is with Scott, in proving that he did
not doubt, as he is supposed to have doubted, the
actuality of certain facts, and this I will do if words
have any meaning—would have done it this week had
I not been away from my papers and notes.
The fact of second sight in the Highlands is as well
established as any other depending for its certitude
upon human testimony; if Sir Walter had known much
about Highlanders or the Highland language, he
might probably not have written the inimitable con¬
versation alluded to by Mr. Atkinson (and so much
pleasure has been lost us); certainly he would not have
mis-spelt and been followed by Mr. Atkinson in mis¬
spelling the commonest of Highland names.
I am a sick man and a busy man, and I don’t want
to waste words in discussing anything with anybody.
If Mr. Atkinson desires to see mention made of
Morrison by Scott himself, his desire will be gratified
shortly. J. A. Campbell.
Edinburgh, April 27th.   
MRS. ANDREWS AND MR. WALLIS.
Sir.—I take the liberty of forwarding part of a
letter just received.—Truly yours, C. Reimers.
47, Momington Road, London.
Dear Mr. Reimers,—Your letter of the 23rd inst.
calls for a response, and I send you two guineas for
the late Mr. Andrews’ widow. Also poor Mr. Wallis
deserves the help of all Spiritualists as a valiant
champion of our cause. I therefore send him also a
subscription of two guineas, as per enclosed cheque.
Very truly yours, GK Damiani.
Naples, April 27th, 1880.
228
May 7, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Bjf the Wm.'Gbroory, M.D., F. i( ii., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
Xhe second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism..
Jest published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
OONTEHTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Yarious Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Yarious Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes —
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a dista nee—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introyision.
CHAPTER V s—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Ac., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in If esnierised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI!—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Sakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted^—M. Chagnet’s
Extaties—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII t—Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX s—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—^Physiological, Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X s—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &e.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Scienee—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTF.R XII s—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion od Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazedat—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XHI s—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—^Perception of Time—Cases 8 Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.'
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—^Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV s—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI s—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
HjfirituaUtt Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
(| In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
(i civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and. about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated, the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and. other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid, objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Scienee, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and. about one
new circle in three, formed, according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena :—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall he no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle..
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced- freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean f‘ Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of medinmship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class ot
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances beoems^
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervoua
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
May 7, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLDORUER;
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignifl 'ant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting puniahmemt qf sinners, he answers Yes ; hut
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. Iu
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
'jHlALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
l_ in Spiritualism, by Christian Eeimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexandeb, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at siancesity the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
‘I Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Heview.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street. London, W.O.,
EESEARCHES IN THE PHENO¬
MENA OF SPIBITTTALI8M, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published tq
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of'some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st.,- W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VaBIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l^d; or six copies post free for 6d. 
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGEB AND EPHEMEBIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Baphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Cattt, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
British national associa¬
tion of spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reacjing
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For term?,
information as to siances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. O.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Bue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Post free.
“ RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to thpse who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains muc)i
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),v
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction :—The Philosophy of lnspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. Y. Tappah-
Kichmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. Y, Tappan•Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
YII.—An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr* Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
YIII.—The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIY.—To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelina
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXTV.—The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace.
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
Bv Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academic-
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin an:
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerisn
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society fo.
the Promotion of Science, Arts'and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.’’
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—In. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVL
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritua,list Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
T3EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JLL psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve de
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable t
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. fid. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NE^y
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS,
Chapter I:—The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modern Thought verses Modern Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter TV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W,). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instractions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The /SJpintiiafef Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepenoe,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIRVTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle s
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted; The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. _ A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevor ably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to “drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, eon -
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May* 7/ 1880.
Accidental Indigestion
* BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
ENO S FRUIT SALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle ot
ENO’S EBUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventative and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face. Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,,Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of -Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S ERUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world,”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it,”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
fcc., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT 1! 1 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means); Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de I'* tfpaix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. Hie is a constant safferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ OUCCESS IN LIFE.”—Anewin-
kJ vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule i$
marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Fries 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatchaw, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The .Morning
Post, Graphic, Court!ournal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song o!
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was 1 holographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener. —11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12. Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says.—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . ■ . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great'beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 6d.; post free 7Jd.; cloth.
Pbize Essays.
nnHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
-L SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals op the British National Association oi
Spiritualists,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
IND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual,
Journal, Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Ofd6r.) Sample copies free.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.- |
OW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOOIKTY.
OW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building 'br
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of'the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
TDIRKBEOK BANK.—Current
-I t Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Lunacy law reform
ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe, Hon. Sec.
rPHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
X OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6$d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-coneeived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given hy the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall r.pt now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the hook (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
Spirit Influence upon Normal Individuals  217
Spiritualism in Salt Lake City    218
A Theosophist’s View of Man’s Position and
Prospects. By W.F. Kirby      219
Divination. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.   221
Spontaneous Materialisations. By W. Eglinton 222
The Newcastle Spiritual Evidence Society 223
Dr. W. B. Carpenter and hisBrothers   228
Spirit Forms in Newcastle  224
Some of the Religious Aspects of Spiritualism By
Isabel de Steiger............      225
Irrational Asceticism. By Christian Reimers...... 227
Correspondence:—Sir Walter Scott and the.Super-
natural   .. 22?
Mrs. Andrews and Mr. Wallis-227
Paragraphs:—The Ruling Passion Strong in ’
. Death;...‘v,.:......... ...223
Spiritualism in Leith     226
Sunday Lectures on Spiritualism 226
Printed for the Proprietor ty Arliss Andrew.^, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by.K.W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
