Registered as a Newspaper.
No, 407.—(VoL. XYI.—No. 24.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JUNE 11, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Go., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Boole to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING- LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Will be Published in a few days, containing striking selections from the writings of Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Me. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., Mr. A. R. Wallace, F.R.G-.S., The Committee of the Dialectical Society, Professor Hare, of Philadelphia,
Professor ZQ llner, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Captain R. F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The w»rk will also eontain some useful information for inquirers.
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 83, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the berefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited witn naving written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.Q.
11
June 11, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS*
ALLAN KARDEG (Black-well’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Teubnee And Co<, London.
Just Published,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
MR. 0* E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 0. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stemway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street,' London W.C.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
A. New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS
DR. JAMES MACK,
37, UPPER BAKER STREET, REGENT’S
PARK. At Home from 10 till 6.
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
D. YOUNGER,
Mesmerist, Mesmeric Healer, Medical Rubber,
gives private instructions. Mesmeric Seances and
Electro-biological Entertainments at Home or by
appointment. Can also supply Mesmeric Sensitives
for Private Experiments, At Home daily from 2 till 10.
Moscow House, 45, Moscow-road, Bayswater, W.
MRS. S. M. BALDWIN,
Has just arrived from America and taken Rooms at
No. 40, UPPER BAKER-ST., N.W.,
Where she will Heal the Sick by Laying on of Hands.
, At home from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
N.B.—Patients treated free on Tuesdays and
Fridays.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL
PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY, LITERATURE AND ART.
Conductod by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honoid, Paris.
"Il/fRS. WOODFORDE Any form
jLt_L Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 6 p.m., 4, Keppel-strcot, Russell-square, W.O.
PUBLISHED AT 108, OIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to u The Proprietors of 1 The TheosophistJ ”
at the above address.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
V_^ DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone' road, Earls-court, S. W.
Price 6s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
« M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, -proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning i i md, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving weli-jjroved facts first, and conclusions wiii-jh naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper ad handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 6s. 6d.> post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, M isoum-street, London, W.O.
A/rADAME LEONIDE, tlie cele-
-LiJL brated French Olairvoyante, is in London for
a few weeks. Private stances by appointment. Apply
by letter, care of Miss Brossard, It as tail’s Library,
Eibury-street, 8.W.
rPO LET FURNISHED, Respect-
A- able and Healthy Apartments, overlooking the
Park. Suitable for two Gentlemen, (Friends or
Brothers), partial Board if required. Terms Moderate.
No Children, Five Minutes from Bus, Tram, or
Rail, 275, Grove Villas, Victoria Park Road, N.E.
References' Required.
allegorical sketches,
XjL founded on spiritual truths.
1. The IhWard Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. 3. The
Two Voices. 4. The Invisible Teacher. Price Is. 6d.
Victoria Steam Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.
piIINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
VJ* WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware, Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Orawford-street, Bryanston-square, London,
% of % JPtpigrtps of t|g attft of jlftlf fimHoat.
No. 407.—VOLUME SIXTEEN ; NUMBER TWENTY-FOURTH.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peioe Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist:—
His Impeeial Highness Ni¬
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baeoness Yon Yay, Coun¬
tess Wiirmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandee Aksakof,
St. Petersburg
Sib Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Bueton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Seejeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Caldeb, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Maxdougall Geegoey
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne)
Captain John James
3. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
F.Podmore, Esq., B.A. (Oxon).
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
II. T>. Jenoken, Esq., M.R.I.
0 Blackburn, Esq,, Parkfiold,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Marklby, Esq.
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Yon Dirokinck-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J, W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M.Adelberthde Bourbon,First
Lieut, of the Dutch Guard to
the King of the Netherlands
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,O.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Fbiesk, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoorb, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sol.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
O.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Puedon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marry at
Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation. in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocoa, Librario, Via del Oorso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston,
U.S. ; lleligio-Bhilosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 819, Kear-
ney-strcet, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
o. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
JUNE 11th, 1880.
TOLERATION.
The author of an article entitled u A Voice
from Outside Laodicea,” published recently in
these pages, said of Spiritualism:—u Where
would be found the same tolerance for those
who differ in religious thought, in our more
ancient spiritual literature ? ” . . u The
youths of the present day have inherited, un¬
wittingly, so much of a tolerant, kindly spirit,
brought about by the unseen leaven of Spirit¬
ualism running through the whole present
generation, that they sometimes write or think
in the pure spiritualistic groove, even when
they imagine that they are hurling sharp
shafts against it.” The scientific element in
Spiritualism has had much to do with the
establishment of this tolerant spirit. The man
of science weighs both sides of every question
which he takes seriously into consideration;
he recognises it to be his bounden duty to put
the objections of the opponents to his con¬
clusions in thoir strongest light, and to justify
himself by reference to the final court of appeal,
the unalterable facts of nature. If his con¬
clusions be in harmony with the facts, the
arrows of his opponents fall harmlessly around
him. The theologian angrily anathematises
his opponents, and warns all those under his
influence not to read their u dangerous” books.
This fear of free inquiry arises from an innate
consciousness of weakness.
Our friend, Mr. James Campbell,has stretched
to the uttermost the spirit of toleration in
Spiritualism in his memoir this week, in which
ho asserts that at “any” siance of devoted
believers in Spiritualism, the spirits utter
statements which “make the blood boil by
their immorality, thoir absurdity, their blas¬
phemy,” and which statements are “accepted
as though they were the very oracles of God.”
He tells us also that for similar utterances to
some of those of the spirits, “ an incarnated
drunkard would have been kicked down the
back stairs.”
We have been present at nearly two thousand
stances, but never at one answering the above
description.
Spirit messages may conveniently be divided
278 THE SPIRITUALIST. June 11, 1880.
into two classes, namely, those given through jj
physical manifestations, and those given |<
through mental phenomena. We cannot now I
call to mind any messages given through the I;
physical manifestations worth rememhering |s
on their intellectual or religious merits, except R
a few published recently by M. ISTus. The |>
messages by this channel usually express the Is
opinions of the medium, and exhibit neither R
more nor less knowledge than he possesses, ex- R
cept when evidence of spirit identity is given, j)
The messages through physical manifestations s
are neither particularly bad nor particularly <
good, but their common-place character is cal- R
culated to irritate an enthusiastic religious re- |;
former. The utterances through mental medi- s
umship are usually of a higher character, and R
are interesting to the class of people who find >
it necessary to u sit under ” a preacher of some R
kind; but few even of these utterances are <
worth preserving in print, they are of no au- R
thority, and not usually equal to the productions
of the best normal writers. Spirit messages of K
all kinds have little influence over the better- js
informed Spiritualists, who very rarely engage R
trance mediums to give stances in their homes, R
unless they can present evidence of spirit >
identity.
New inquirers sometimes put questions on R
abstruse subjects to the spirits who produce j;
the physical manifestations, but they are not js
long in discovering that they can get little in- j<
formation of a useful nature. \\
Some horrors might be picked out in relation !>
to exceptional sSances, but taking a broad view |s
of the whole field, there is about as much good <
and evil in Spiritualism as in any other great !?
movement, and its worst features when com- |J
pared with the worst features of orthodoxy js
leave little advantage to either side. A me- <
dium is better employed in promulgating, in I?
however homely a fashion, the doctrine of )
eternal progression, than is a conventicle s
preacher in libelling the Almighty by attri- <
buting to Him the invention of Eternal Punish- !/
ment, and there is less materialism in assert- >
ing the reality even of a spiritual body of s
refined matter, than in preaching the resur- k
rection of the present body without any refine- |?
ment of it at all. Altogether, the anathemas >
upon another page seem to come from a s
writer temporarily surrounded by a pea-soup R
fog of Scotch dogmas, but who will assume a >
happier tone when he again comes southwards |)
into a freer and more genial spiritual atmos- <
phere. ^ jj
Mr. and Mrs. W. Tebb are at Lake Como,
STATUYOLENOE AND ITS EEEEOTS.
In the Spiritualist of April 2nd, I attempted
to draw the distinction between Mesmerism
and Statuvolence, and gave some account of
the latter as taught and practised by Dr.
Fahnestock, of Lancaster, Pennsylvania. I
will now give a few special cases to illustrate
the physiological and psychical effects of his
method, and its application to trance medium-
ship.
STATUVOLENOE AS A CURATIVE AGENT.
Dr. Fahnestock says (Statuvolism, p. 266^,
“ If a patient enters this state for the relief of
disease, and while in it no allusion to his
disease be made, or he does not think of it, or
place his mind upon it of his own accord in a
proper manner, no relief will be experienced
when he awakes. ... It is, therefore,
highly necessary, when relief of any kind is
desired by a subject, that his mind should be
placed upon the disease, and before he awakes he
should resolve to forget it, or that it shall cease
to trouble him when he awakes. . . The
firmer the resolution made in this state that
the disease or habit shall cease, the sooner and
more permanent will be the relief experienced
when he awakes.’’
The author ridicules the blind faith in the
prescriptions and predictions of somnambulists
as exhibited by the French mesmerist Teste,
who says, “ The clairvoyance of an idiot in a
state of somnambulism would inspire me with
more confidence if I were sick than the greatest
geniuses which grace modern medicine,’’ and
Dr. Fahnestock refers the fulfilment of the
prophecies of subjects respecting themselves
to the fact that “ Whatever they conceive,
determine upon, or say of themselves while in
this state will happen to them when awake,
because their minds have been so directed, or
improperly allowed to wander,” instead of
being at once directed to the cure of the disease
by a firm effort of the will.
The author reports in his book many in¬
teresting cures by simple resolutions formed
in the statuvolic state, including cases of
epilepsy, St. Yitus’ dance, fevers, dyspepsia,
rheumatism, hysteria, etc. I will make a few
extracts from his reports.
The following case of intermittent fever, I
quote from page 290 :
u Mr. S. P. B was subject to ague every
third day for six months. He entered this
state but imperfectly upon the first sitting,
without any relief. On the second sitting he
entered it more perfectly, about half-an-hour
before the chill was expected. He remained
June 11, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
279
in this state about two hours, during which
time his mind was diverted by directing him
to cast it to distant places, and to see clair-
voyantly what was there going on. At the
end of that time, no chill or fever appearing,
he was requested to awake, after making a
resolution that he would forget his disease.
I met him five months afterwards, when he
declared that he had felt nothing of the ague
since he had been in the sleep.”
In reference to a lady who was afflicted
with chronic rheumatism in the head, back and
limbs, the doctor says, (p. 295,) <e She en¬
tered the state upon the first sitting, and was
an excellent clairvoyant. One sitting relieved
her entirely.” He adds, “ I have never yet
seen a case of rheumatism that was not relieved
by entering this state.”
Love-lorn damsels need no longer pine away
and die—the remedy ^ is but a sleep and a
forgetting.”
“ Miss had been melancholy and des¬
ponding for several years. She was induced
to try somnambulism for her relief. She
entered the state perfectly at the first trial, in
less than ten minutes; and, after she had been
in it for some time, I asked her . <
whether she did not think that it was better
for her to forget an attachment which could
not be returned. She said, ‘ yes, I believe it
would.’ I then asked her whether she was
perfectly satisfied to do so, and to become
lively and happy hereafter. She said, ‘ yes;
and I am resolved that it shall be so.’
I have since been frequently informed that
she has banished the circumstance from her
mind entirely, and has been lively, contented,
and happy ever since.”
On page 300 is reported an interesting case
of scarlet fever. When Dr. Fahnestock arrived,
the patient was “ laboring under a high fever,
attended with considerable pain and soreness
of the throat, and a scarlet blush over the
whole body. . . . She had often been in
the state before, at first out of curiosity, and
afterwards for the purpose of having several
teeth extracted. . . . She threw herself
into the condition in a few seconds, and when
asked respecting her throat, she declared that
the pain was entirely gone. She remained in
the state about an hour. At the end of that
time the fever had abated, and when she awoke
she was entirely relieved of all unpleasant
symptoms, and had no return of her complaint
whatever, after that time.”
I have seen a copy of the Boston Medical
and Surgical Journal, for October, 1876, in
(\ which Dr. Fahnestock reported the case of a
?j lady, who was delivered of a child while in a
>! state of artificial somnambulism, without feel-
sj ing any pain whatever.
In a recent letter to Mind and Matter, (a
o. Spiritualistic paper, published in Philadelphia)
;j the author claims that “in this state the will
Sj of the patient has perfect control of the nervous
system, so that feeling, or even sensation, can
c\ be entirely suspended for an indefinite period.
>| Consequently, all diseases of a nervous, spas-
S| modic, inflammatory or painful nature, can be
<| arrested at once, and if the affected parts are
?j kept in an insensible condition (by the same
;| power of the will) until the inflammation has
l i subsided, the cure' will be effected indepen-
u dently of the will.”
PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA.—OLAIKVOYANT REVELATIONS.
Dr. Fahnestock complains that after his
>! subjects are cured of their diseases and begin
| to develope the higher psychological pheno-
c mena, they or their friends almost invariably
)| become alarmed, discover Satanic agencies at
S work, and bring investigations to a standstill.
| Some of his <l orthodox ” neighbours uphold
?! him manfully, however, and one of his best
> clairvoyants is a Methodist minister. He has
| also been faithfully supported in his psycho-
! logical experiments by the Herr family, who
?! are very simple devout people, belonging, I
! believe, to the sect of Mennonites. I visited
i them last fall, in company with Dr. Fahnestock,
s The Editor of the Lancaster Daily Intelligencer
?! was there a few days later, and I will borrow
) from his description, it being a correct account
Sj of the manifestations as I saw them myself.
The report begins:
“ For many years, as most of our scientific
> readers at least know, Dr. Wm. B. Fahnestock,
s | of this city, has been patiently and persistently
< studying the mysterious subjects of clair-
?| voyance, somnambulism, polarity, electricity,
> and more especially the condition of body and
)j mind which he calls statuvolism.
From time to time he has given to the
?J public the result of his investigations into
? these unexplored realms, in the way of news-
l\ paper articles, scientific treatises, pamphlets
< and books. ... In all this time his
? most useful and clearminded agent in these
)| discoveries has been Susan Herr, the wife of
Christian Herr, who now resides about three
(! miles from Lancaster, to the right of the
?j Willow Street turnpike, near where it crosses
> Mill Creek. Yesterday afternoon, on invi-
> I tation of Dr. Fahnestock, three representatives
of the Intelligencer drove out to Mr, Herr’s,
280 THE SPIRI
to see and. hear his patients, when in the j<
statuvolic condition. Mrs. Herr is a woman ||
of probably sixty-five years of age, .estimable I*
character, and the mother of a family. She
was formerly blind and lame, though now she
appears to be of entirely sound vision, and
walks without limp or impediment. During
the years shelhas been under Dr. Fahnestock’s
care, she has been cured, and has developed
in a remarkable degree this statuvolic con¬
dition. . . . It is said by Mrs. Herr and
Dr. Fahnestock that when affected with any
pain she can at once throw that part into
i condition ’ and no more pain is felt until
she chooses to throw it out of 1 condition.’ If
a tooth begins to ache, or is to be drawn she
throws it into condition, and the pain ceases.
Even the physical throes of childbirth are
alleviated, and many equally wonderful claims
are made for Statuvolism. In exemplification
of these things, three subjects were submitted
to the representatives of the Intelligencer.
The first of these was Miss Lizzie, daughter of
Mrs. Herr, a young lady of probably twenty-
five years of age. She was sitting on a chair
when the party entered the room, and at the
doctor’s request threw herself into condition
with a simple jerk of her body and closing of
her eyes. 4 How,’ said the doctor, 4 she is
oblivious to feeling.’ To prove it he pulled
her hair violently, pinched her cheeks, nose
and hands severely. She never winced nor
moved a muscle. He told her to hold her
arm out, and she did. He hung a heavy chair
on her fingertips, and she upheld it, he added
another, and her arm scarcely moved, another
still, and the rigid outstretched arm kept
them on its fingertips. The strongest of the
party could not keep one of them out for Three
minutes in the same position. A finger out¬
stretched, or any member displaced from its
natural position would remain fixed that way,
beyond the time of ordinary endurance. We
could not get the patient to do any clairvoyant
business, nor to go anywhere on earth. She
insisted continually that she was ‘ up there,’
so enjoying herself that she Would not go to
Lancaster, or any place less agreeable. ‘ Up
there ’ meant on the largest of Saturn’s moons,
which the statuvolists all delight to visit. .
. . When Mrs. Herr went into the condition
she performed the same wonders. . . .
She visited the same delectable regions as
Lizzie, and could not be withdrawn therefrom.
Abe, her son, was met in the barnyard, and at
once threw himself into condition 
Dr. Fahnestock says that he can put himself
T UAL 1ST. June 11, 1880.
into condition, and work all day in that state,
and never tire ; his statuvolism answering for
sleep. We suggested that he would be a
good one to enter for the walking match: Dr.
Fahnestock thought so too.” F. P. T.
Towanda, Pennsylvania, May 21st, 1880
MR. EGLINTON AT MUNICH.
The June number of Psychische Studien is
almost entirely filled with correspondence and
comments on an alleged u exposure ” of Mr.
Eglinton at Munich. Mr. Eglinton was en¬
gaged by two Spiritualists, brothers, named
Sellmaier, to give seances at their residence in
that city, in April and May last. The earlier
ones seem to have given entire satisfaction,
and Psychische Studien contains a highly
favourable report by a Herr Strigel, a philo¬
sophical investigator, who rejects the spiritual¬
istic explanation of the facts. Early in May,
this gentleman, Professor Zollner, the editor
of Psychische Studies and others, received
telegrams and short letters from Herr Max
Sellmaier to the effect that Mr. Eglinton was
a a swindler,” that the proof was complete,
and that even mechanical appliances {mechan-
isches werlz) had been discovered, and were in
his (Herr Sellmaier’s) hands. Two days later,
however, on the 6th May, Herr Sellmaier
writes again that the latter statement was a
u mistake,” but maintains his accusation on
the other ground. This was that his sus¬
picions having been aroused, he had blackened
the key of the musical box, the result being
that black traces were afterwards found on
Mr. Eglinton’s hand. This is all that has
been learned directly from Herr Sellmaier;
his repeated—four times repeated—^promises, in
successive short communications to the Editor
of Psychische Studien, to furnish a detailed
account, having been unfulfilled up to the
time that that journal went to press, a circum¬
stance on which the editor comments with
justifiable severity. In the meanwhile, the
Aug slurger Abendzeitung had published what
purported to be an original account from one
of the circle. It alleges the old story, known
not to be accurate when the medium is securely
held by good witnesses, that Mr. Eglinton
brought the hands of his neighbours together,
to hold one only of his hands when they were
supposed to be holding both, and then with
his free hand proceeded to do manifestations.
They stuck phosphorescent lights upon his
coat to see his motions, indeed, seem to have
played more tricks upon him than they allege
him to have played upon them. Mr. Eglinton
declined to receive the agreed remuneration
5
281
June 11, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
and left for Paris on the following day. From i
that city he wrote to Herr Sellmaier a letter |<
which is printed at length in Psychische R
Studien. In this he declares his innocence |>
emphatically, accuses Herr Sellmaier of du- K
plicity towards him, and explains his sudden |<
retreat by the fact that he had two ladies with |>
him, and that he had been threatened with the !)
police. This Herr Sellmaier denies. A letter js
from Professor Zollner to Herr Sellmaier warns |c
the latter of the fallacies of evidence against |?
& proved medium, and there appears to be a j>
general feeling among the German Spiritualists |s
that the Munich investigators acted pre- K
cipitately and on insufficient grounds. Herr j?
Sellmaier, indeed, almost puts himself out of j)
court as a witness, by his first acknowledged, K
hut unexplained mistatement, and his sub- |?
sequent neglect to furnish particulars. And |>
no one with knowledge of the subject will \i
infer anything against Mr. Eglinton from the K
circumstance of the black being found on his k|
hand. Some of the other facts alleged are of Pj
more importance, but the whole account con- jS]
taining them is too wanting in clear detail to Kj
afford material for a final judgment.
A PUBLIC RECEPTION TO MR. F. 0.
MATTHEWS.
The Honorary Secretary to the Yorkshire |sj
District Committee of Spiritualists, Bradford, ]<|
writes to us that the Yorkshire Spiritualists |?j
suggest that a grand entertainment be held pj
at Keighley early in July (probably the 5th), Kj
as a public reception to Mr. F. 0. Matthews, ]<]
the clairvoyant. As will be remembered, |?j
Mr. Matthews was sentenced to three months’ |>j
imprisonment in Wakefield county jail by K|
the Keighley magistrates on April 2nd. The |c{
three months expire at 8 a.m., July 1st, |)j
when Mr. Matthews will be liberated. The ISj
case against him was of the most trivial jyj
nature. The court was crowded; numbers Pj
of non-spiritualists were present who were !>!
willing to testify to the remarkable clair- m
voyant faculties of Mr. Matthews. The ’Kj
action of the Newcastle Society in issuing ||[
petitions is to be commended, though it is j>|
doubtful any beneficial effects will follow, jxj
Our correspondent adds that he has bundles k|
of letters from all quarters testifying to Mr. j^j
Matthews’ powers of clairvoyance; the pith j)j
of all the letters is to this effect:—“ Spi- Kj
ritualism lacks organisation, This lamentable k|
want of combination cripples the energies of |!l
our best workers. Let us unite; each county ||
should have a distinct organisation and send m
its own representative to attend periodical j^j
general assemblies to consider matters of
national importance. Displays of strength
like this would soon command attention and
wipe from the statute book all those obsolete
laws which promise to hamper the progress
of the movement in the future.
The public reception is intended to be a
representative one. Mr. Matthews will tell
his own experiences relative to the three
months in prison, and what he saw there.
Several able speakers will attend and take
part. Friends living at a distance who have
a firm’ knowledge of clairvoyance, especially
those who have attended Mr. Matthews’
seances, are invited to send letters of sympathy
and advice, which will be read out to the
meeting. Nothing will be left undone to
make this meeting a public exposition of the
facts and philosophy of Spiritualism, and a
strong protest against the unjust laws through
the agency of which Mr. Matthews was in¬
carcerated. Our correspondent adds that he
knows Mr. Matthews intimately, and being
fully conversant with his mediumship, can
speak of his trustworthiness. During the
imprisonment of Mr. Matthews those de¬
pendent upon him for support have had a
severe struggle; his two aged grandparents
and sister have stood it bravely notwithstand¬
ing. To illustrate the thoughts of Mr. Mat¬
thews after receiving sentence, the following
quotation from a letter written to his grand¬
mother before his removal to Wakefield may
be quoted:
“ Do not trouble yourself unnecessarily
about the sentence passed upon me this morn¬
ing. You will have many dear friends whom
God and his angels will raise up in this hour
of trial. The angel friends who directed my
attention to your whereabouts in the year
1876, after so many years of silence, will
watch and protect us. Prison walls cannot
prevent soul communion, of which we shall
yet witness much. The persons who have
led to my conviction I freely forgive for they
know not what they have done. That God .
may enlighten them is my humble prayer.
I feel the true spirit of the martyrs of old,
and it shall guide me aright. May you feel
as I feel this morning, happy, very happy.
I am prosecuted, not for an evil thing, but
for obeying the laws of God and nature.
Spiritualism shall yet rise and prosper. I
glory I am accounted worthy to be called
upon to add my testimony to its truths. Be
of good cheer, the angel world is near us as
a witness this day.”
282
TH E SPIRITUALIST.
June 11, 1880
The subject-matter of this letter, under
the circumstances already related, needs no
comment. Let us be up and doing and by a
thorough system of organisation throughout
the country, compel the repeal of the noxious
laws. The knowledge that every clairvoyant
throughout the country is liable to arrest on
a similar charge should inspire all to action.
Spiritualists interested in the public recep¬
tion, and who desire to take part, either by
forwarding letters of sympathy, subscriptions,
or attending personally, are requested to com¬
municate to Mr. Mr. A. Morrell, the Public
Baths, Keighley, or Mr. Olapham, 39, Devon-
shire-street, Keighley.
PSYCHOGKRAPHY.
Last Saturday night Captain John James
received a few guests at a private seance at his
residence, 129, Grower Street, London.
Shortly before the seance began, and before
the medium had arrived, one of the guests,
Miss Robertson, in the presence of the com¬
pany took a large book slate belonging to
Captain James, and cleaned it with a sponge
and plenty of water. She then placed a minute
“crumb” of pencil between the leaves of the
slate, closed the leaves, and tied and sealed
them together as represented in the following
cut:
In this cut, representing the closed slate,
the hinges of the slate are at H, H. The
string tying the leaves together, crossed the
slate once longitudinally at A, D, and twice
in the shorter'direction, namely, H, B, and H,
C. Wherever the string crossed itself on
either side of the slate, an interlink was made.
The final knot was at E ; a piece of paper was
placed below it, and hot wax dropped over the
knot and sealed with a signet ring.
Before the string had been tied on, white
paper had been gummed all round the four
edges of the slate, so that the two leaves of
the slate were firmly held together by gummed
paper alone. Afterwards the string was tied
tightly over the book-slate as just described.
5j At A, B, C, and D the string was sealed to
|sj the paper gummed over the edges of the slate;
Kl at each of these four places also, the wax was
!?j stamped with a signet ring.
After all this had been done in the presence
K| of the guests, Mr. Rita, the medium, arrived.
The slate was placed on the table, and in
Hj the middle of a dark seance the spirits wrote
!S| inside the slate on one leaf, “ God bless you,”
k! and on the other leaf “ Good night.” When
| | a light was struck, careful examination showed
I?| that the slate and its fastenings had in no way
jSj been tampered with.
A slate fastened up by one who did not at-
k| tend the stance, was thrown by the spirits to
|)| the end of the room. They said they would
|)| not write for people who would not take the
K| trouble to attend to investigate.
The witnesses present at this stance were
§ Captain James, Miss Robertson, Mr. Wilding,
| | Major-General Maclean, Colonel Evans, Miss
k| Riccalton, and Mr. Harrison.
i)i  ♦ 
UN-REALISED.
BY C. A. BURKE.-
] y| I am betrothed to a mystic bride;
With honey’d words I woo’d her long ago,
Upon her name with pleading lips I cried,
|)| And yet for all that she did love me so
Kr Still she my suit denied.
i) i Called I upon her in my great despair;
My arms were empty of her, day by day
hi Throughout lone lands I sought her everywhere
j) | And seemed to see her smiling on my way,
And yet she was not there.
!?i Then I grew cold and sighed, sad was my fate
Which gave me in life’s play the hardest parts:
|) | Tried I to turn from her in scornful hate,
| (| Yet knew I well within my heart of hearts
i;j Her love for me was great.
hi I know that I shall see her by-and-bye,—
I woo her not so madly as of old;
When the sword pierce me even ’till I die
hi I shall look on her, not far off and cold,
j)j But very, very nigh.
Kj Or good or evil or whate’er betide
|)| I care not now, with hush’d and failing breath
Kj I listen for the footsteps of that guide
IWho leads me to her—kindly-hearted Death
Who giveth me my Bride.
♦
Mrs. S. M. Baldwin, whose healing and other med-
! iumship has sometimes been mentioned in American
! newspapers, has just arrived in London.
j)j The election of the new Council of the National As-
K| sociation of Spiritualists will take place at the adjourned
| > j Anna al General Meeting of members on Tuesday next, at
!?| 6.30 p.m. Everybody who has tried to select thirty-six
\)\ new members of council must, after indicating about two
1| dozen, have found himself obliged to pick out a dozen
! more of whose public services neither himself nor the
| movement knows anything. The forced appointment
| of people who have rendered no public services to
| Spiritualism will cause trouble in the future as in the
| past.
283
June 11, 1880. THE SPIR
PSYCHONOMY IN ITS RELATION TO g
RELIGION AND ETHICS.*1 ' !)|
BY J. A. CAMPBELL, B.A. (CANTAB.)
“ And if they say unto you, Seek unto them whose i|j
speech is in their belly, and those that speak out of the iSj
earth, those that utter vain words, that speak out of l)|
their belly: shall not a nation seek unto their God? i<!
Why do they enquire of the dead concerning the living ? \)\
—Isaiah, cap. viii. v. 19. Septuagint Tr. I(j
1. Before proceeding to consider the subject |?!
upon which you have done me the honour of |)|
permitting me to address you this evening, I |s|
feel it to be both just and necessary that I Kj
should apologise to you for making use of a k|
novel, and as I must confess, a somewhat bar- |;j
barous compound word, in the place of one |S!
which, if not etymologically preferable, pos- Kj
sesses at any rate the advantage of being fami- Kj
liar. The reasons influencing me I trust to j>j
make plain in the course of what I have to jSj
say.
In these days of restless craving for novelty j?|
and continual change, the responsibility in- j>j
curred by innovators of all sorts is so apt to be |s|
overlooked, that the substitution of one word k|
for another equally well or better representing j?j
our meaning seems to us a very little thing, pj
Yet this same indifference was regarded by bj
the Greeks of old, a by no means unenlight- Kj
ened people, as the most sure evidence possible Kj
in a nation, of corruption and decline, the pre- j>j
cursor of lawlessness and of every evil deed. |sj
How it is regarded by the writers of that j(j
book, which, if not any longer sacred to us is, pi
I trust still admitted to be wise, I need scarcely j)j
remind you. When any one thing is singled jsj
out as the index of condemnation as the oppo- |cj
site carefulness is of justification there can be l?j
no ambiguity.j* And as in those nations with j)|
whose prophecies fate has rendered us familiar, j!j
so in all others \ the myth of the Logos embo- Kj
dies for us their sense of the supreme import- |?j
ance and value of speech; the vehicle of j>|
thought; the revealer of character ; the herald jsj
of action, human and Divine—for evermore.
I have not time to enlarge as I should like j>j
to do upon this; what I have said will suflice jsj
to show you that not without earnest consi- jsj
deration should I have ventured to alter, much jo
less to u coin” a word. Necessity alone can j?j
justify a man doing that^ and this is what I jsj
mean by necessity—when current words and jsj
phrases are serving to perpetuate some error or ||
delusion.
2. In all sciences the difficulty of fixing upon j)j
* A paper read before the National Association of Spiritualists, r-|
May 17th. " - jcl
f By thy words shalt thou be justified and by thy words shalt jc j
thou be condemned. Ki
TU ALI S T.
an accurate nomenclature is necessarily very
great, and is increased by the unfortunate
craze for self-exaltation, that urges each indi¬
vidual professor, whether of Zoology, Botany,
or Geology, to invent one of his own. Take
up, for example, in succession, any two
standard works upon ornithology, and look out
the scientific name for a robin; it will be by
the luckiest of chances that you find him
called the same in both; though they agree
so far as to call him something which is
supposed to tell you in striking Latin what
Linnaeus told you long ago simply,—that a
robin has a red breast.
But while scientific people, for neither
rhythm’s sake nor reason’s, thus play fast and
loose with Latin words, and I am sorry to say
with English words too, wrangling over the
subordinate names to be given to genera and
to species, they are at least usually agreed
upon the nature of the object they intend to study.
They do not, in the instance we have chosen,
differ in their definition of a bird, though they
dispute endlessly over the origin and classi¬
fication of birds. Two so-called sciences exist
however in the world at present, that have
each of them elaborated vast systems of detail
without making serious attempt to settle that
elementary question. One of these is known
to us as Political Economy, the other as modern
Spiritualism.
“ The object of this treatise,” says Mr. Mill
in the opening chapter of his Political Economy,
is to u teach or to investigate the nature of
wealth. Every one has a notion sufficiently
correct for common purposes of what is meant
by wealth.”
“ The object of these treatises,” say the
hundred and one writers on the subject of
modern Spiritualism, ais to teach or to in¬
vestigate as to the nature of spirits. Every
one has a sufficiently correct notion for com¬
mon purposes of what is meant by a spirit.”
Then after a lofty rebuke addressed to those
who “aim at metaphysical niceties of de¬
finition,” the perplexed reader finds himself
at once considering the relations of labour
and capital, or following out the test experi¬
ments of Mr. Crookes.
I have spoken of these two cases together,
because in both confusion has resulted from
the loose and inaccurate use of words, though
the origin and outcome of the confusion in
either case have been widely different. In that
of political economy, it was the result of
deliberate carelessness on the part of a pro¬
fessed teacher of a newly invented creed, and
284
THE SPIRITUALIST.
has been powerfully and fully exposed.* In
that of so called Modern Spiritualism, it was
the necessary consequence of the recognition
of a forgotten fact by obscure persons in an age
that had no room for it, and has been scarcely
even suspected.
3. Let us trace the history of the term
“Spiritualism,” and understand the reasons
that led to its adoption, before we proceed to
discuss its accuracy; hut in order to do this we
must examine first a little into the subtler
workings of the human mind.
There is a story told somewhere of a Ger¬
man professor to whom his friend was arguing
in favour of the existence of God. u Why
talk you to me of God?” he replied, uin my
system there is no room for Him.” How when
in a system—a range of conception—any idea
ceases to he possible, the word used to express-
it does not linger long behind. Try to recall
some thought that has ceased to be true to you,
but that was once true, try to bring your mind
into the attitude in which it then W3S in rela¬
tion to that truth ) and you will find that the
words, the great helps for enabling you to do
so, have become winged in another sense than
those of Homer,—that they have taken to them¬
selves wings and flown away.
With nations as with individuals this is so :
no nation of the eighteenth century, at any
rate no Protestant nation, believed much in the
existence of creatures other than themselves in
the heavens or in the earth ■ therefore words
which in classic, or Pauline, or medieval times
had served to express the conditions of invis¬
ible existence, and to distinguish between what
in it was eternal, and what temporary, had in
these latter days either dropped out altogether,
or had reached the dying stage in becoming
synonyms, and were ready to drop out.
Do not be bamboozled though into believing
according to the latter-day gospel that this
vanishing is necessarily a condition of progress,
and that it implies a correspondent develop¬
ment of conception and expression in some
other direction; you may be saved from being
so misled by remembering that while many
grave and sweet words familiar to our fathers
have gone from us, the additions of our own
age are to be found chiefly in the pages of
Mr. Hotten’s “ Slang Dictionary.”
4. The ” system ” of America at the time of
the Eochester disturbances was not so perfectly
developed as that of the professor, but it is
continually being matured. The “progress ” of
♦ See “ Unto this Last." four Essays ou Political Economy, by
John Buskin.
June 11, 1880.
a great nation can never be very rapid ; mean¬
while Columbia heads the march of “civili¬
zation,” and, followed at a little distance by
her more cautious European sisters, advances
daily nearer the same glorious consummation.
We will briefly note the characteristic features
of this half-way stage in a pilgrim’s progress
reversed,
First a negative characteristic, (since the
reformation creeds always commence with a
negation.)
Disbelief in the reality of anything unseen.
Then two positive ones :—
a. Belief in the omnipotence of the seen
and tangible,
b. (Forming the boundary line dividing the
system from’the more advanced neology of the
professor.)
Belief in an awful “ Divine ” magistrate
existing somewhere whose “justice” might
under certain circumstances be escaped from,
and even his favour secured to his elect. The
last consisting in a permission accorded them
to wear long robes, and harp in his presence
for ever,
Can you understand now what I meant
by saying a* little while back, that when
these manifestations began at Hydesville, and
began in Derbyshire, the age had no room for
them ? The age found herself in the presence
of powers, novel indeed and gigantic, but
measureable and controllable—if not exactly
visible, at all events intensely real—-steam, for
example, and electricity. A power that was
inconstant in its action, a power that could
neither be guaged nor guided, that mocked
their best efforts to understand its nature ; that
needed no engine to display its strength ; that
asserted its personality but yet could not be
seen, was inconceivable, unnameable; impossi¬
ble, as the Quaker’s report of red-hot-ball firing
to the mind of Dr, Johnson.
What option then had the simple people
among wfiom the despised power had sprung
up, but to name it for themselves, and name
it they did from out of the one book that
seemed to recognise events of a similar kind—
their father’s old Bible, “ There, at least,”
we hear them say, “ there is no abuse for us,
no contempt. Communication with those who
once lived on earth, and are now living else¬
where, is spoken of as a not impossible thing;
nay, in one case too sacred to be placed in
comparison with such facts as ours, as having
undoubtedly taken place. Visions are there
recorded, not unlike those seen by some among
I our number. Trances into which men have
June 11, 1880. * THE SPIE
fallen with their eyes open. Sounds heard by j)
a whole concourse of people at once, and voices js
as from heaven. A human being returning |<
from the other world—does not the Bible call u
him a spirit? A seer of visions, a dreamer of |;
dreams, is he not the possessor of spiritual |
gifts ? With every mysterious personage, and K
with every mysterious event, a substantive R
or adjective is connected. Let our science be R
Spritualism, and ourselves Spiritualists.’’ A n
Baptism that had momentous issues.
5. We have noticed the importance of words |j
as the handmaidens of thought; it is but a >
question of time when they break from their |s
allegiance and become her mistresses. And this |(
usurping character of theirs was never more R
clearly manifested than in the history of the |>
movement we are considering. At the outset |s
there is confusion of thought; the doctrine of K
the alleged communication with the “spirits” R
of the departed is mixed up in the minds of the j)
earliest commentators on the phenomena with Is
hazy references to the mystical part of the k
teachings of S. Paul which connect the sacred R
with the spiritual.
What they mean they do [not quite know |s
themselves, and they do not know what S. Paul R
means. But in a few years the floating notion |j
becomes crystallised into the conviction that j)
the spiritual and the supernatural are synony- K
mous terms, that the “ unseen things” are only K
unseen because they are attenuate, and the R
u unheard things ” are only unheard because |>
the tympanum of a material ear is too coarse to Is
reflect them ; that, given in any embodied man !<
developed faculties of sight and hearing, and R
in any disembodied man dwelling in the same is
medium* in which they are produced, the most is
ordinary faculties of attention—they would be R
visible and audible enough. j)
So you get back to a subtler form of the |j
materialism from which you started. Spirit is |s
only a refinement upon matter; many things j(
exist which are unseeable with material eyes R
and untouchable with material hands; but R
nothing exists that is not seeable with some K
kind of eyes and touchable with some kind of j!
hands. j/
And to a u religion ” founded upon this ma- K
terialism, than which the old superstition of a K
Deus ex machina) and of a profit and loss ac- |j
count with Him was less fatal, Mark the |!
nature of the logic.— R
We can communicate with spirits :
* Cheap manuals of science are beginning at this time to talk
about “ etherial mediums” and much more that is useful to non* j
etherial ones engaged upon revelations.
I T U A L I 8 T. 285
The terms Spirit and Spiritual are used in
scripture, sometimes for the unseen, sometimes
for the sacred:
Therefore all that is unseen is sacred.
The terms prophet and seer are used in
scripture for those who possess abnormal
powers, and also for teachers of divine truth.
Therefore every possessor of abnormal powers
is a teacher of divine truth. Eureka ! The
comprehensive philosophy of the future is dis¬
covered uniting science and religion.
The Holy Spirit is the u magnetic ” (sic)
force inherent in man directed by the angels.
God is the name we give to the primeval
fountain of that force. Christ was a powerful
“ medium!”
The angels are our divinities !
The “ media ” are our priests!
Follow we their gentle guidance !
6. When it came to that, France drew back;
her sense of the spirituel was not very deep
certainly, but some of the doctrines taught by
the American angels were hardly 11 spirituel”
even in the French sense. She pleaded for
Spiritism in the place of Spiritualism, with a
small suspicion of the sources of the mischief;
but America held firm, while France received
the messages of her own angels cum grano salis,
in the shape of blessed medals of the imma¬
culate conception, from the hands of the
apostle Kardec.
England, considerably later in the day,
began to draw back also, under the influence
of leaders who knew the Greek and Hebrew as
well as the English Bible, and of others who
were learning strange things concerning the
latest avatar of the Budha under the Bo trees
of Hew York. That avatar, ladies and gentle¬
men, which was to destroy your association
with its radiance, which was to remove this
building from its foundations by the breathing
of a magic breath—but which has hitherto
mercifully spared you.
People asserted fearlessly that the “ Spirits ”
had been wrongly named,—that incarnated
wisdom was on the whole much better worth
thinking about than ghostly twaddle—and there
sprang into being the Psychological and Theo-
sophical societies; but the centre of the move¬
ment was not greatly affected by these changes
and secessions; things went on and go on now
pretty much as before, and the more earnest
among us long, as they longed before, for some¬
thing different.
7. You will say to me tha 11 have exaggerated
the state of things, that educated * *' spiritualists ”
do not as a rule accept the teachings of spirits
286
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June II, 1880.
as infallible. In theory perhaps not: what do
they do in practice ? do to any seance you
please, where the circle is composed of devoted
believers and listen to the style of conversation
that takes place between them, and the u Joey
or Peter, or John King/’ or other familiar that
is, or is believed to be <c present.” Questions
asked upon private matters that one would
hardly dare to consult a parent about, questions
upon matters the most sacred and awful that
can engage the human mind. Eeplies that make
the blood boil by their immorality, their
absurdity, their blasphemy, accepted as though
they were the very oracles of God.
ISTo u knotty point of doctrine or discipline
so long as a test question ” is not involved,
is too hard for the spirits. 1J0 feeling of
reverence in the presence of what is holy
disturbs them; their wit is like that which
we might imagine to be indulged in by the
clowns and pot-boys of a third-rate theatre,
and their insolent familiarity in addressing
ladies, what an incarnated drunkard would
have been kicked down the back stairs for
daring to use in the houses of their husbands
and fathers.
And the u mediumsP God knows that I feel
as keenly as it is possible for any man to feel
the peculiar trials and difficulties they have to
undergo—that I shudder to think of the heart¬
less cruelty, the hopeless misunderstanding
with which they are treated. But on the
other hand, when they are flattered and made
much of, taken out of their rightful position
in society, pampered, and caressed—when
every word that falls from their lips in private
is treasured as infinitely precious—when
their teaching on social and religious questions,
if they happen to be u trance-speakers,” much
of it bad and valueless, as much of it is good
and true, is put on a level with the teachings
of the world’s greatest men, with those of Our
Lord Himself—when the claim put forth by
some of them, as it was in round numbers the
other day, by an aimiable young member of
the fraternity, to be recognised as the leaders
of religious, (and also of scientific,) thought is
gravely listened to—can any one who desires
to see a great truth freed from degradation
longer keep silence ?
An experience of my own strangely illus¬
trates all that I have just said. Suffer me to
relate it to you.
I happened to be present some time ago
when a “ medium” (entirely unknown to our
English public), during the time he was en¬
tranced, gave utterance to doctrines so repug¬
nant to the moral sense, not only of “ Christian
England ” but of heathen and semi-barbarous
nations, doctrines so bad that no less strong
word than damnable will serve to describe
them. I instantly challenged the “ Spirit
Guide,” saying, if my memory serves me,
“ That is both wicked and false.” "■ Have
not I better opportunities of knowing what is
wicked and false than you ?” “ Not better
than every holy prophet since the world began ;
not better than the Light of the World.”
“ But, Mr. Campbell, I am a spirit.” “ Sq.
am I, though more closely encased.” “ Let
us dismiss the subject.” Not many days after¬
wards, I was told through the very same chan¬
nel that I was right, but that owing to “ pecu¬
liar conditions” the guide could do no other at
the time.
Ladies and gentlemen, the religion of Spi¬
ritualism does indeed rest upon uncertain foun¬
dations !
You marvel at the chaotic state of your
movement, at the weary repetition of plati¬
tudes in your literature, at the unsatisfying,
unhelpful, unedifying nature of your stances.
You marvel why your “ Spiritualism” leads to
family sorrow, and sometimes to family ruin;
why your mediumship resembles not unfre-
quently that found of old in the country of the
Gadarenes. Take into your minds but for
once thoroughly the real state of things, and
your astonishment will cease.
8. I have told now my reasons for altogether
rejecting this title of Spiritualism. Because
its adoption has led to the hiding of real issues
and the opening up of false ones, because its
perpetuation serves to perpetuate the mischief
thus caused and to increase it.
There are still secondary reasons, which would
be no reasons at all if they were not founded
upon one final underlying reason, that the title
is in itself a false one. For phenomenal judg¬
ment, that is judgment by appearance, or by
consequences, is always unjust till you can
appeal beyond it.
Never fear that I am preparing for a plunge
into abstruse philological discussion. In my
first letter to my friends, if they allow me to
write it, which will treat of the bases of psy-
chonomy^ I intend to look well into the deriva¬
tion and history of the words used in our
language for the invisible part of man, such as
soul, spirit, ghost; words still bandied about in
a meaningless manner amongst us.
Here it will sufficiently answer our purpose
to note, that in all languages we find two or
I more distinct words, or sets of words, used to
287
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 11, 1880.
describe the one the higher, the other the lower
manifestations of the life-power in nature.
(To he continued).
\Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]  
SPIRITUAI. BIBLIOGRAPHY.
Sir,—In answer to H. M. (Bath), I beg to say that
I possess but one book by “Eliphas Levi,” La Clef des
Grands My stores, and that was published as long ago as
1861, by Q-ermer Bailli^re No. 17 Rue de L’Eeole de
Medeeine, at Paris; and was also to be obtained at
the house of M. Hipppolyte Bailliere, 219, Regent
Street, London. 11 Eliphas Levi ” was the nom de plume
of the Abbe Constant, who died in the year 1876.
Scrutator.
[We believe that M. Bailli&re’s London. Publishing Offices are
now in King William Street, Strand.—Ed.]
BELIEF IN A FUTURE STATE.
Sir,—I am at the present time challenged to sub¬
stantiate a statement which I recently made in a written
discussion that ail peoples and nations of any note had
always believed in an after-death state of consciousness
of some kind. I made this statement from recollections
of what>I had occasionally read; but few authorities are
within my reach, and I shall feel obliged to any
reader who can give me information bearing upon the
point. Especially should I like to know authoritatively
what was the popular belief in spiritual existence
amongst the Jews in Christ’s time.
Of course I am perfectly aware that schoolmen and
philosophers have speculated and differed in all manner
of ways, but I refer only to popular faiths. Were they
such as I understand, or were and are there any con¬
spicuous exceptions ? M.
Edinburgh.  
THE ACCIDENT TO MR. LAMBELLE.
Sir,—Permit me space to answer through your
columns the many letters of enquiry sent to me from
various parts of the country, respecting the extent of
the injuries sustained by me in my recent accident.
Being engaged at the hatchway of a steamer, and work¬
ing on a stage, it broke with the weight of an iron
beam I had in my arms, weighing nearly 3 cwt., and
I fell a depth of 18 feet. The beam also fell and struck
me on the right side of the head, inflicting a gash about
2% in. in length. My left side was sorely bruised.
On my reaching home, I was unable to move a joint,
save with considerable pain. This continued»for three
weeks; but I am thankful to say I am recovering very
rapidly. I am in good hopes that in a week or so my
restoration will be complete. W. H. Tiambfltyk.
49, Eldon Street, South Shields.
ACCUMULATED MEDIAL POWER.
Sir,—All who have had experience in Spiritualism
allow that while there are certain phenomena which
occur spontaneously, there are others equally wonder¬
ful, which are evoked through the agency of mediums.
And it appears that the more fully developed the me¬
dium, the more remarkable the phenomena; also that
two or three mediums are proportionately more powerful
than one. It is with reference to the last circumstance
that I wish to throw out a hint.
If this accumulative power really exists—and all that
?j . I have seen or read goes to confirm me in the opinion
s | that it does—it seems to me a matter of regret that some
)! effort should not be made to allow a considerable num-
(j ber, or all of our ablest mediums living in England, to
) | hold a yearly or half-yearly session, say of a fortnight’s
) | duration. The result of such a sitting, I believe, would
\ | be in the highest degree satisfactory, and tend to give
>! unity to the movement which is now wanting. It might
c | also be the means of enlightening us upon many sub-
Sl jects, which we can but suppose spirits are better able
to instruct us upon, than we, in the embodied state, to
u acquire a) knowledge of, without their direct aid. I
Si submit that notwithstanding the hundreds of thousands
) | of avowed Spiritualists that we are as far off as ever
(1 from possessing a knowledge of soul or spirit force.
Northampton. —   I. P.
THE INDUCED RIGIDITY OF MESMERIC SENSITIVES.
Si Sir,—I was rather surprised to read in The Spirit-
) | ualist, of May 28th, the statement of a speaker that stand-
S | ing upon a mesmerised sensitive, when in a state of rigi-
S i dity, and resting with head and heels upon two chairs,
(j was productive of injurious effects. This statement is
S i foreign to an experience of more than twenty-five years,
) | during which I have performed the experiment hundreds
(! of times, and have never known any evil result. As the
S j Manor Rooms, Hackney, is mentioned, I may state that
on November 8th, 1871, I gave a mesmeric entertain-
(\ ment there, and among those who went under my in-
) i fluence on that occasion, was a lad of about thirteen or
(i fourteen years of age, as nearly as I can remember. I
(| was told he was the hallkeeper’s son, and had never been
)! under the influence before. Of course I did not stand
c j on him, but I did on another sensitive, without, I hope,
S i producing any ill effect; at least he never complained
) i of any. I have stood upon my two sensitives, Q-eorge
(j and Alfred, many times, and they state that they never
) i feel the worse for it. It is mostly on Alfred I perform
) i this experiment, and if, when experimenting upon him,
SI I omit this illustration, he always reminds me of it, which
> | I think he would not do if it had any ill effects,
c j On one occasion, a few years since, when giving an
S! entertainment in Stamford Street, Blackfriars, on a plat-
; | form furnished with stage fittings, I made one of my
c i sensitives rigid, and placed him on the backs of two
(| chairs, so that when the curtain was drawn up he was seen
) i to form the table from which I delivered my lecture. I
(i kept my sensitive in this state and position, for over fif-
) I teen minutes, and he afterwards assured me that he at
) \ no time felt the worse for it.
(j As I shall, however, have several opportunities this
; i week of repeating the experiment, I will do so and you
(| shall know the result. 8. R. Redman.
>! Brixton Hill, S.W., June 7th, 1880.
An old Scotchwoman was once asked whether she
did not think it improbable that all mankind would be
damned except herself and her neighbour, Jamie
Weaver, who formed between them a select church of
their own., “Well,” answered the dame, “ Ihae aften
had my doots about Jamie Weaver.”—St. James's
Gazette.
An erroneous statement has been published that the
National Association of Spiritualists conducted the
Slade defence. The Association had nothing to do
with the defence beyond lending its rooms without charge
to the Defence Committee. While Mr. Harrison was in
the Perthshire Highlands, Dr. Slade wrote to him stating
that no organised effort was being made on his behalf,
so Mr. Harrison returned to London and called a
meeting of Spiritualists, which meeting appointed the
Defence Committee.
288
June 11, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Bs the latt Wm.'Qbkoobt, M.D., F.R.S.E., Profetsor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Jast published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I s—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
lor causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
•--Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility-Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER Hi :—Sympathy—Community of Sensations^ of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage-
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV s—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object : through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Ac., Predicted—Pre-
i lotion of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
nhd of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Paih.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Sutqeot must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental} Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luttiinous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VHI:—Phreno-MesmeriSm—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fasciuation Among Auimals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Aption of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichehbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac.-—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects' of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—^Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylio Emanations—Odylio Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, ahd Mirror, &c..
Induce Walking CIMrvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to bo Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Oases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight put of
Nme Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep-
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phrejio-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Oases—'Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retro vision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Oases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
i sirvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—-Predictions.
CHAPTER SVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Sfiritualkt Newspaper Branch Office, S3, Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
!)[ In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
Oi civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
|)| sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
j/j lived, the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
j/i ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth,
ici The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
i(| Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
Kj investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
| SI professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
jjj true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
|) j were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
j) | presence of mediums without being touched.
j?| Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
i( j Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
I (| thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
Kj house, and repotted them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
jSj Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
I; I professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
j)i Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
i)j forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
]) \ stranger to the family present.
{?! The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
K! science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
| (i untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
j S i private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
Kj by any member of the family. At the present time there are
j; I only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
;?j tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
ici be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
Kj the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
If protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
i Si the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
fp which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
i) j duped who trust in worthless authorities.
j/j One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
icj ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
j ? i new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
j|| tions, obtains the phenomena :■—
Kj 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
i (i tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
iSj 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
|Sj the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
i?l to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
Ixi wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
I c j top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
ICI little importance. Any table will do.
i \ j ; 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
I) I but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
I)j 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
ip general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
j) j should be of a frivolous nature.
ici 6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
i?j feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
i (i indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
K j 6. When motions of the table or souqds are produced freely,
Kj to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
Ki the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
. iSj three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean
j)j “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
j)i If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
i?i letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
I (! to the letter you want, and spell us out a message P ” Should
I (j three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
isj from this time an intelligent system of communication is
jj! established.
j )j 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
j) j trance* or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class ot
j;)! messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
icj usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
Kj objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
j (i the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
i s j to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
is! or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
is j undeniable proof.
jSl 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances becausy
i)i no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
j( i A medium is usually an impulsive individual, tery sensitive to
i ? 1 mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
K j not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
i s j week: angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervoua
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Jttne 11, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
Cloth, small Svo, price Ss,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not airy one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If ashed whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical With the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
prrcisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
fjIALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
l_ in Spiritualism, by Christian Eeimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Eed Edges.
SPIRITUALISM,
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
Researches in the pheno¬
mena OF SPIRITUAL!SM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. Tbe best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d; or six copies post free for 6d.
E A PH ALL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPHEMERiS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! BUy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Cattt, 12, AVe Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa-
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS. 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to seances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms-, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S-. C.,” cafe of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
HTHE BANNER OP LIGHT: the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
1.5s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C
Price 3s, 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE YEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are Unacquainted With Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant Works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediUmship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan‘Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of tbe Period, By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treheme) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg,
XU. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat,
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death, By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spirituahsm.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand, By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfalien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXTX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calmer.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83.
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academics
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society rbi
the Promotion of Science, Arts”and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Trice SB. fid.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS PROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Past I,
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Pant II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XlV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII, “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIIl,
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
T3EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JLt psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve <
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable 1
Leymarie.
• Just Published. Price 5s. fid. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modern Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modern Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI!—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modern Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (PtO-.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The iSJpiritaa&tNewspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the Wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to “ drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, Containing instruotions how
to form spirit vircles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con'
sequehtly irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 11, 1-880,
Accidental Indigestion
'r BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING1,
USE
END'S FRUIT SALT
Erery Trayelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
STIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— .
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
FAUGED, WEARY AND WORN
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de 8^ iPaix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday, fie is a constant sufferer from chronie
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ CUCOESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
AT vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original , channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION:—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marktd “ENO’S~FBUIT SALT.” Without, you haws
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and is. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcbam, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
J RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly reaommended by reviews in The]Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thlrt)
other standard journals,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—'Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Sbaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on businest-
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay oi
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double ilu
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The-Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision
—23. “Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The WobblejaM Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
"DIRKBECK BANK.—Current
JL) Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane. ’
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in areview nearly a column long, says:—“Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . ■ . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays ate
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. Thi
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bea/rers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account oi
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Frice 6d.; post free 7§d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the Fikst and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association oi
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
T UNACY LAW REFORM
JLi ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe, Hon. Sec.
rpHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
A OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6$d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
‘ ‘As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
Toleration      277
Statuvolence and its effects ....;  278
Statuvolence as a Curative agent.....,.....;  278
Physical Phenomena     279
Clairvoyant Revelations        279
Mr. Eglinton at Munich   280
A Public Reception to Mr. F. O. Matthews     281
Psychography     282
Poetry:—Un-realised      282
Psychonomy in its Relation to Religion and Ethics.
By J. A. Campbell, B.A       283
Correspondence:—Spiritual Bibliography.......V... 287
Belief in a Future State  287
The Accident to Mr. Lambelle 287
Accumulated Medial “Power... 287
The Induced Rigidity of Mes¬
meric Sensitives  287
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., andpublished by E.W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
