llBGisxEKED as A Newspaper.
  #tot foitfr Spiritualism In $xa\ §nto> 
No. 376. (Vol. XV.—No. 19.) LONDON : FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
I Just Published.
AN ILLUSTRATED BROADSIDE ENTITLED
THE WOOERS OE LAMPORT, ETC.,
By SIR CHARLES ISHAM, Bart.
Price Three Halfpence, Post Free; or Ten for One Shilling.
2,000 Copies sold in two days.
PROFITS FOR ORPHANAGE.
Sii* Oliarles IsLam, Bart., X-iamport Hall, Northampton.
THE THEOSOPHIST, ~
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSRY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of * The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol. I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
IECHAIISI OF IAI.
Price 10s. Od-
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,”
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS.
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
JAMES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Ckandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, TP".
^bEstbENi?—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenotnepa
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MITNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEhf AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s'. 6d. TrebnER ANt» 00., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (OxonA*
Cloth 8vd. Bed Edges, Price Five Shillings^ post free.
27te Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published,
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo, Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
7hc Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Moderh Sjnrit'Uatism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . * 3 It is eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we nave rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Just Published.
THE FHtST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. Gd., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Nov., 7, 1870.
MR. sCi E» WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home -daily,from 12 tiil, S. On Thursday and
Saturday evetiings bom 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER)
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At' home every day except Sunday),
"Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night.
MR. fg OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON. ‘
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
104, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of. re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-p'ower to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form. of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
l, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR. F. 0. MATTHEWS,
CLAiitVOYANF, TEST, AND HEALING
MEDIUM,
Is in Town, and will be open to engagements from
October 26 to November 15..
Address—2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.O.
F. O. MATTHEWS,
CLAIRVOYANT, TRANCE, TEST AND
HEALING MEDIUM,
35, CAVENDISH TERRACE, WEST HILL PARK
HALIFAX, YORKSHIRE.
MR. A. H. FIRMAN
(Medium of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
HOME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eight
o’clock, at his Rooms
.26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON.
Mr. Firman will he at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 6, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honors, Paris.
MRS. 'W OODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and "Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square.
IViTRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
Ay.JL of the Fox Sisters, of N6w York Gity, U.S.
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday,
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to 10, either at house of party or at Mrs.
Kane’s rooms, must he made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
YNHjARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\_y DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stope-r.oad, EarTs-court, 8.W.
J. xrl til htiA £th;ii)$ iif SgitlitUaHstW,
No. 8t6.—VOiLUjVIE FIFTEEN; NuJ^BEI^ JMIJMETEENi
LOISTDOlSr* FRI33AY, NOVEMBER 7th., 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALISTb Newspaper,
Established in 18G9.
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence,
Os. lOd. per annum Post Eree within the limits of the United Kingdoms and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HAEEISON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literaty CohtribUtions to The Spiritualist :~
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
Atherican Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Mon. Alexandre Aksakof, St
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F, Burton, F.R.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.
C. 0.. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
ThCosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The ttev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jehcken, Esq., M.R.t.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile do Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden),
Barop Yon -Dirckihck-Holmfeld (Hoi-
stein)
The Count do Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lien-
tenaht of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.R.S,
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esp., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
HenslCigh Wedgwood, Esq., j.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J, C. Luxmpre, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doe. Scl., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel: E;
J. A, Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab);
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martiiieau.
The Spiritualist has A steadily rising circulation in all the English-Speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal,Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence.; Signor BoCCft,
Librarip, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazlonale, Naples; 37, Rue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, Bast Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U,S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rpHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary bOok the author, who is a Professor Of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is nb doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
TRUE AND FALSE PERSONALITY.*
BY C. C. MASSEY.
THE title prefixed to the following observations
may Well have Suggested a more metaphysical treat¬
ment of the subject than can be attempted on the
present occasion. The doctrine of the trinity, of
trichotomy Of man, which distinguishes soul from
spirit, comes to us with such weighty, venerable,
and even sacred authority, that we may well be
content, for the moment, with confirmations that
should he intelligible to all, forbearing the abstrusef
questions which have divided minds of the highest
philosophical capacity. We will not now inquire
whether the difference is one of states or of entities :
whether the phenomenal or mind consciousness is
merely the external condition of one indivisible Ego,
or has its origin and nature in an altogether different
principle; the Spirit, or immortal part of us, being
of Divine birth, while the senses and understanding,
with the consciousness—Ahankara—thereto apper¬
taining, are from an Anima Mundi, or what in the
Sankya philosophy is called Prakriti. My utmost
expectations will have been exceeded if it should
happen that any considerations here offered should
throw even a faint suggestive light upon the bearings
of this great problem. It may be that the mere
irreconcilability of all that is characteristic of the
temporal Ego with the conditions of the superior
life—if that can be made apparent—will incline you
to regard the latter rather as the Redeemer, that has
indeed to be born within us for our salvation and
our immortality, than as the inmost, central, and
inseparable principle of our phenomenal life. It
may be that by the light of such reflexions the
sense of identity will present no insuperable difficulty
to the conception of its contingency, or to recognition
that the mere consciousness which fails to attach
itself to a higher principle is no guarantee of an
eternal individuality.
It is only by a survey of what individuality, re¬
garded as the source of all our affections, thoughts,
and actions, is, that we can realise its intrinsic worth¬
lessness ; and only when we have brought ourselves
to a real and felt acknowledgment of that fact, can
we acc.ept with full understanding those “ hard say¬
ings ” of sacred authority which bid us “ die to
ourselves, and which proclaim the necessity of a
veritable new birth. This mystic death and birth is
the keynote of all profound religious teaching; and
that which distinguishes the ordinary religious mind
from spiritual insight is just the tendency to interpret
these expressions as merely figurative, or, indeed, to
overlook them altogether.
Of all the reproaches which modern Spiritualism)
with the prospect it is thought to hold out of an
* A paper read before the Theosopbical Society last Tuesday night.
218 THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 7. 1879.
individual temporal immortality, has had to encounter,
there is none that we can less afford to neglect than
that Which represents it as an ideal essentially |
egotistical and borne. True it is that our critics do j
us injustice through ignorance of the enlarged 1
views as to the progress of the soul in which the j
speculations of individual Spiritualists coincide j
with many remarkable spirit teachings. These I
are, undoubtedly, a great advance upon popular
theological opinions, while some of them go far to satisfy
the claim of Spiritualism to be regarded as a religion.
Nevertheless, that slight estimate of individuality, as
we know it, which in one view too easily allies itself
to materialism, is also the attitude of spiritual
idealism, and is seemingly at variance with the
excessive value placed by Spiritualists on the dis¬
covery of our mere psychic survival. The idealist
may recognise this survival; but, whether he does
so or not, he occupies a post of vantage when he
tells us that it is of no ultimate importance. For
he, like the Spiritualist who proclaims his “ proof
palpable of immortality,” is thinking of the mere
temporal, self-regarding consciousness—its sensibili¬
ties, desires, gratifications, and affections—which are
unimportant absolutely, that is to say, their import¬
ance is relative solely to the individual. There is, j
indeed, no more characteristic outbirth of materialism i
than that which makes a teleological centre of the I
individual. Ideas have become mere abstractions;
the only reality is the infinitely little. Thus utili- j
tarianism can see in the State only a collection of j
individuals whose “ greatest happiness,” mutually j
limited by nice adjustment to the requirements of j
“ the greatest number,” becomes the supreme end of |
government and law. And it cannot, I think, be j
pretended that Spiritualists in general have advanced j
beyond this substitution of a relative for an absolute |
standard. Their “ glad tidings of great joy” are not |
truly religious. They have regard to the perpetua- i
tion in time of that lower consciousness whose j
manifestations, delights, and activity are in time, and j
of time alone. Their glorious message is not essen- j
tially different from that which we can conceive as
brought to us by some great alchemist, who had dis- j
covered the secret of conferring upon us and upon j
our friends a mundane perpetuity of youth and
health. Its highest religious claim is that it j
enlarges the horizon of our opportunities. As such, j
then, let us hail it with gratitude' and relief; but, on i
peril of our salvation, if I may not say of our immor- j
tality, let us not repose upon a prospect which is, at J
best, one of renewed labours and trials, and efforts j
to be free even of that very life whose only value is |
opportunity. j
To estimate the value of individuality, we cannot I
do better than regard man in his several mundane j
relations, supposing that either of these might j
become the central, actuating focus of his being— ||
his “ruling love,” as Swedenborg would call it— r
displacing his mere egoism, or self-love, thrusting j (
that more to the circumference, and. identifying him, j(
so to speak, with that circle of interests to which all ||
his energies and affections relate. Outside this sub- !<
stituted ego we are to suppose that he has no con-
science, no desire, no will. Just as the entirely H
selfish man views the whole of life, so far as it can u
| really interest him, solely in relation to his individual
I wellbeing, so our supposed man of a family, of a
j society, of a church, or a State, has no eye for any
| truth or any interest more abstract or more indi-
|‘ vidual than that of which he may be rightly termed
| the incarnation. History shows approximations to this
ideal man. Such an one, for instance, I conceive to
j have been Loyola: such another, possibly, is Bismarck.
| Now these men have ceased to be individuals in
| their own eyes, so far as concerns any value
I attaching to their own special individualities. They
I are devotees. A certain “conversion” has been
| effected, by which from mere individuals they have
I become “representative” men. And we-*—the indi¬
viduals—esteem them precisely in proportion to the
remoteness from individualism of the spirit that
actuates them. As the circle of interests to which
they are “ devoted ” enlarges—that is to say, as the
dross of individualism is purged away—we a,ccord
them indulgence, respect, admiration, and love.
From self to the family, from the family to the sect or
society, from sect or society to Church (in no denomi¬
national sense) and State, there is the ascending
scale and widening circle, the successive transitions
which make the worth of an individual depend on
the more or less complete subversion of his indi¬
viduality by a more comprehensive soul or spirit.
The very modesty which suppresses, as far as possible,
the personal pronoun in our addresses to others,
testifies to our sense that we are hiding away some
utterly insignificant and unworthy thing; a thing
that has no business even to be, except in that utter
privacy which is rather a sleep and a rest than
living. Well, but in the above instances, even those
most remote from sordid individuality, we have
fallen far short of that ideal in which the very con¬
ception of the partial, the atomic, is lost in the
abstraction of universal being, transfigured in the
glory of a Divine personality. You are familiar
with Swedenborg’s distinction between discrete
and continuous degrees. Hitherto we have
i! seen how man — the individual — may rise con-
j tinuously by throwing himself heart and soul
j into the living interests of the world, and lose his
j own limitations by adoption of a larger mundane
| spirit. But still he has but ascended nearer to his
j own mundane source, that soul of the world, or
I Prakriti, to which, if I must not too literally insist
on it, I may still resort as a convenient figure. To
| transcend it, he must advance by the discrete degree.
| No simple “ bettering ” of the ordinary self, which
! leaves it alive, as the focus—-the French word
! “foyer” is the more expressive—of his thoughts and
I actions; not even that identification with higher
i interests in the world’s plane just spoken of, is, or
| can progressively become, in the least adequate to the
| realisation of his Divine ideal. This “ bettering;’ of
I our present nature, it alone being recognised as
j essential, albeit capable of “ improvement,” is a
I commonplace, and to use a now familiar term a
!. “ Philistine ” conception. It is the substitution of
! the continuous for the discrete degree. It is a com¬
promise with our dear old familiar selves. “And
Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the
sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the
lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly
Nov. 7, 1879.
destroy them; but everything that was vile and
refuse, that they destroyed utterly.” We know how
little acceptable that compromise was to the God
of Israel; and no illustration can be more apt
than this narrative, which we may well, as we
would fain, believe to be rather typical than
historical. Typical of that indiscriminate and
radical sacrifice, or “ vastation,” of our lower nature,
which is insisted upon as the one thing needful by
all, or nearly all *> the great religions of the world.
No language could seem more purposely chosen to
indicate that it is the individual nature itself, and
not merely its accidental evils, that has to be
abandoned and annihilated. It is not denied that
what was spared was good; there is no suggestion of
an universal infection of physical,or moral evil; it is
simply that what is good and useful relatively to a
lower state of being must perish with it if the latter
is to make way for something better. And the
illustration is the more suitable in that the purpose
of this paper is not ethical, but points to a metaphy¬
sical conclusion, though without any attempt at
metaphysical exposition. There is no question here
of moral distinctions; they are neither denied nor
affirmed. According to the highest moral standard,
A may be a most virtuous and estimable person.
According to the lowest, B may be exactly the
reverse. The moral interval between the two is
within what I have called, following Swedenborg,
the “continuons degree.” And perhaps the distinc¬
tion can be still better expressed by another reference
to that Book which we theosophical students do not
less regard because we are disposed to protest against
all exclusive pretensions of religious systems. The
good man who has however not yet attained his “ son-
ship of God” is “ under the law”—that moral
law which is educational and preparatory, “ the
schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ,” our own
Divine spirit, or higher personality. To conceive the
difference between these two states is to apprehend
exactly what is here meant by the false, temporal,
and the true, eternal personality, and the sense in
which the word personality is here intended to be
understood. We do not know whether, when that
great change has come over us, when that great
work f of our lives has been accomplished—here or
hereafter—we shall or shall not retain a sense of
identity with our past, and for ever discarded selves.
In philosophical parlance, the “ matter ” will have
gone, and the very “ form ” will have been changed.
Our transcendental identity with the A or B that
now is | must depend on that question, already
disclaimed in this paper, whether the Divine spirit
is our originally central essential being, or is an
hypostasis. Now, being “under the law” implies
that we do not act directly from our own will, but
indirectly, that is, in willing obedience to another
will. The will from which we should naturally
act—our own will—is of course to be understood not
* Of the higher religious teachings of Mohammedanism I know next to
nothing, and therefore cannot say if it should be excepted from the statement.
t The “ great work,” so often mentioned by the Hermetic philosophers, and
which is exactly typified by the operation of alchemy, the conversion of the
base metals to gold, is now well understood to refer to the analogous
spiritual conversion. There is also good reason to believe that the material
process was a real one.
tii A person may have won his immortal li'e, and remained the same inner-
self he was on earth, through eternity; but this does not imply necessarily
that he must either remain the Mr. Smith or Brown he was on earth, or lose
his individuality.'’—Jsis Unveiled, vol. i., p. 316.
as mere volition, but as our nature—our “ ruling
love,” which makes such and such things agreeable
to us, and others the reverse. As “ under the law,”
this nature is kept in suspension, and because it is
suspended only as to its activity and manifestation,
jj and by no means abrogated, is the law—the substi-
)j tution of a foreign will—necessary for us. Our own
)j will or nature is still central; that which we obey by
(| effort and resistance to ourselves is more circum-
\l ferential or hypostatic. Constancy in this obedience
| and resistance tends to draw the circumferential will
\j more and more to the centre, till there ensues that
)j “explosion,” as St. Martin called it, by which our
) I natural will is for ever dispersed and annihilated by
I contact with the divine, and the latter henceforth
\| becomes our very own. Thus has “the school-
)j master ” brought us unto Christ, and if by “ Christ ”
\j we understand no historically divine individual, but
)j the logos, word, or manifestation of God m us—then
\j we have, I believe, the essential truth that was
)| taught in the Vedanta, by Kapila, by Buddha, by
ft Confucius, by Plato, and by Jesus. There is another
)j presentation of possibly the same truth, for a refer-
ence to which I am indebted to our brother J. W.
i Farquhar. It is from Swedenborg, in the Apocalypse
m Explained, No. 527:—“Everyman has an inferior
)j or exterior mind, and a mind superior or interior.
11 These two minds are altogether distinct. By the
)| inferior mind man is in the natural world together
\ | with men there; but by the superior mind he
(| is in the spiritual world with the angels
(j there. These two minds are so distinct that
)j man, so long as he lives in the world, does not
fj know what is performing within himself in his
)| superior mind ; but when he becomes a spirit, which
\| is immediately after death, he does not know what
0 is performing in his inferior mind.” The conscious-
)| ness of the “superior mind,” as a result of mere
(| separation from the earthly body, certainly does not
> suggest that sublime condition which implies sepa-
(| ration from so much more than the outer garment of
)j flesh, but otherwise the distinction between the two
/] lives, or minds, seems to correspond with that now
f under consideration.
What is it that strikes us especially about this
!j substitution of the divine-human for the human-
natural personality? Is it not the loss of indi¬
vidualism ? (Individualism, pray observe, not indi-
| viduality.) There are certain sayings of Jesus which
] have probably offended many in their hearts, though
they may not have dared to acknowledge such
a feeling to themselves: “Woman, what have I
(I to do with thee?” and those other disclaimers of
|| special ties and relationships which mar the perfect
(| sympathy of our reverence. There is something
) | awful and incomprehensible to us in this repudiation
(| of individualism, even in its most amiable relations.
> [ But it is in the Aryan philosophies that we see this
(| negation of all that we associate with individual life
) I most emphatically and explicitly insisted on. It is,
\j indeed, the impossibility of otherwise than thus
11 negatively characterising the soul that has attained
\| Moksha (deliverance from bonds) which has caused
J | the Hindu consummation to be regarded as the loss
>j of individuality and conscious existence. It is just
(1 because we cannot easily dissociate individuality
THE SPIRITUALIST.
219
m
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 7, 1879.
from individualism that we turn from the sublime \l
conception of primitive philosophy as from what !/
concerns us as little as the ceaseless activity and j(
germination in other brains of thought once thrown j/
off and severed from the thinking source, which is j(
the immortality promised by Mr. Frederick Harrison 1)
to the select specimens of humanity whose thoughts i (
bnve any reproductive power. It is not a mere pre- j)
ference of nothingness, or unconscious absorption, to j(
limitation that inspires the intense yearning of the If
Hindu mind for Nirvana, Even in the Upanishads »
there are many evidences of a contrary belief, while j/
in the Sankya the aphorisms of Kapila unmistakably I
vindicate the individuality of soul (spirit). Indi- j)
vidual consciousness is maintained, perhaps infinitely If
intensified, but its a matter” is no longer personal, l)
Only try to realise •what “ freedom from desire,” the |f
favourite phrase in which individualism is negated j)
in these systems, implies ! Even in that form of 1)
devotion which consists in action, the soul is warned j)
in the Bhagavad-rGita that it must be indifferent to If
results.
Modern Spiritualism itself testifies to something of If
the same sort. Thus we are told by one of its most u
gifted and experienced champions, a Sometimes the >
evidence will com® from an impersonal source, from K
some instructor who has passed through the plane on If
which individuality is demonstrable.”—M. A. (Oxon), j(
Spirit Identity, p. 7. Again, “And if he” (the jf
investigator) ^penetrates far enough, he vyill find rf
himself in a region far which his present embodied If
State unfits hirn: a region in which the very indi- K
viduality is merged, and the highest and subtlest |j
truths are not locked within one breast, but emanate 'll
from representative companies whose spheres of life |)
are interblended.”—Id., p. 1^. By this interblend- |(
ing ” is of course meant only a perfect sympathy apd If
community of thought] and I should doubtless |
misrepresent the author quoted were I to claim an |>
entire identity of the idea he wishes to convey, and K
that now under consideration. Yet what, after all, )
is sympathy but the loosening of that hard jf
astringent ” quality (to use Bohme’s phrase) wherein I)
individualism consists ? And just as in true sympathy, jf
the partial suppression of individualism and of what jf
is distinctive, we experience a superior delight and jf
intensity of being, so it may be that in parting with h
all that shuts us up in the spiritual penthouse of an if
Ego—all, without exception or reserve—we may j(
for the first time kqow what true life is, and f
what are its ineffable privileges. Yet it is j)
not on this ground that acceptance can be hoped j|
for the conception of immortality here crudely j(
and vaguely presented in contrast to that bourgeois q
eternity of individualism and the family affections, j(
which is probably the great charm of Spiritualism jj
to the majority of its proselytes. It is doubtful ,1
whether the things that “eye hath uot seen, l>
nor ear heard,” have ever taken strong hold of the |<
imagination, or reconciled it to the loss of all that is ||
definitely associated with the joy and movement of If
living. Not as consummate bliss can the dweller on ji
the lower plane presume to commend that tran- j(
scendent life, At the utmost he can hut echo the 1/
revelation that came to the troubled mind in Sartor it
Memrtus, “ A man may do without happiness, and I)
instead thereof find blessedness.” It is no sublima¬
tion of hope, but the necessities of thought that
compel us to seek the condition of true being and
immortality elsewhere than in the satisfactions of
individualism. True personality can only subsist in
consciousness by participation of that of which we can
only say that it is the very negation of individuality
in any sense in which individuality can be conceived
by us. What is the content or “ matterof that
consciousness we cannot define, save by vaguely
calling it ideal. But we can say that in that region
individual interests and concerns will find no place.
Nay, more, we can affirm that only then has the
influx of the new life a free channel when
the obstructions of individualism are already
removed, Hence the necessity of the mystic
death, which is as truly a death as that which
restores our physical body to the elements. “Neither
I am, nor is aught mine, nor do I exist,” a passage
which has been well explained by a Hindu writer
(Peary Chand M ittra), as' meaning “ that when the
spiritual state is arrived at, I and mine, which
belong to doe, finite mind, cease, and the soul, living
in the universum and participating in infinity with
God, manifests its infinite state.” I cannot refrain
from quoting the following passage from the saino
instructive writer:—
Every human being has a soul which, while not separable from
the brain or nerves, is mind, or jevdtmd, or sentient soul, but
when regenerated or spiritualised by yoge, it is free from bondage,
and manifests the divine essence. ' It rises above all (phenomenal
states—joy, sorrow, grief, fear, hope, and in fact all states
resulting in pain or pleasure, and becomes blissful, realising im¬
mortality, infinitude, and felipity of wisdom within itself. The
sentient soul is nervous, sensational, emotional, phenomenal, and
impressionah It constitutes the natural life and is finite. The
soul and the non-soul are thus the two landmarks. What is
non-soul is prakrif, or created. It is not the lot of every one to
know ydiat soul is, and therefore millions live and die possessing
minds cultivated in intellect and feeling, but not raised to the
souf state. In proportion as one’s soul is emancipated from
pfafyrn or sensuous bondage, in that proportion his approximation
to the soul state is attained; and it is this that constitutes
disparities in the intellectual, moral, and religious culture of
human beings, and their consequent approximation to God.—
Spiritual Stray Leaves, Calcutta, 1879.
He also cites some words of Fichte, .which prove
that the like conclusion is reached in the philosophy
of Western idealism: “ The real spirit which comes to
itself in human consciousness is to be regarded as an
impersonal pneuma—universal reason, nay, as the
spirit of God Himself; apd the good of man’s whole
development, therefore, can be no other than to
substitute the universal for the individual conscious¬
ness.”
That there may be, and are affirmed to be, inter¬
mediate stages, states, or discrete degrees, will, of
course, be understood. The aim of this paper has
been to call attention to the abstract condition of the
immortalised consciousness ; negatively it is true, but
it is on this very account more suggestive of practical
applications. The connection of this society with the
Spiritualist movement is so intimately sympathetic,
that I hope one of these may be pointed out without
offenpe. It is that immortality cannot be phenomenally
demonstrated. What I have called psychic survival
can be, and probably is. But immortality is the
attainment of a state, and that state the very
negation of phenomenal existence, Another conse-
221
^QV. 7, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
quence refers to the direction our culture should jj
take. We have to compose ourselves to death. ||
Nothing less. We are each of . us a complex of h
desires, passions, interests, modes of thinking and j)
feeling, opinions, prejudices, judgment of others, | >
likings and dislikings, affections, aims public and | ?
private. These things, and whatever else constitutes ’ I >
the recognisable content of our present temporal 1/
individuality, are all in derogation of our ideal of i\
impersonal being—saving consciousness, the mani- j?
festation of being. In some minute, imperfect, j \
relative, and almost worthless sense we may be right !)
in many of our judgments^ and amiable in many of our i ^
sympathies and affections. We cannot he sure even }/
of this. Only people unhabituated to introspection ]|
and self-analysis are quite sure of it. These are ever i (
those who are loudest in their censures, and i >
most dogmatic in their opinionative utterances. In U
some coarse, rude fashion they are useful, it may be | >
indispensable, to the world’s work, which is not ours, I (
Save in a transcendental sense and operation. We j>
have to strip ourselves of all that, and to seek perfect, U
passionless tranquillity. Then we may hope to die. n
Meditation, if it be deep, and long, and frequent ||
enough will teach even our practical Western mind to j>
understand, the Hindu mind in its yearning for H
Nirvana. One infinitesimal atom of the great con- ] >
glomerate of humanity, who enjoys the temporal, K
sensual life, with its gratifications and excitements as |)
pinch as most, will testify with unaffected sincerity that I (
he would rather be annihilated altogether than remain ; /
for ever what he knows himself to be, or evenrecognis- ! (
ably like it. And he is a very average moral specimen, j)
I have heard it, said, & The world’s life and ^business ((
would:come to an end, there would be an end to all \)
its healthy activity, an end of commerce, arts, manu- | <
factures, social intercourse, government, law, and j)
science, if we were all to devote ourselves to the j(
practice of Yoge, which is pretty much what your f>
ideal comes to.” And the criticism is perfectly just \(
and true. Only I believe it does not go quite far j)
enough. Not only the activities of the world, but !\
the phenomenal world itself, which is upheld in con- j)
sciousness, would disappear or take new, more |\
interior, more living, and more significant forms, at j)
least for humanity, if the consciousness of humanity |\
was itself raised to a superior state. Renders of St. ! )
Martin, pnd of that impressive book of the late K
James Hinton, Man and His Diuelling-place, |
especially if they have also by chnnce been students I
of ihe idealistic philosophies, will not think this j(
suggestion extravagant. If all the world were Yogis, |\
the world would have no need of those special b
activities, the ultimate end and purpose of which, by- ij
the-by, our critic would find it not easy to define. j(
And if only a few withdraw, the .world cap spare b
them. Enough of that.
Only let us not talk of this ideal of impersonal, b
universal being in individual consciousness as an j(
unverified dream. Our sense and impatience of b
limitations are the guarantees that they are not final ;(
and insuperable. Whence is this power of standing M
outside myself, of recognising the worthlessness of the ||
pseudo-judgments, of the prejudices with their j|
lurid colouring of passion, of the temporal interests, of K
the ..ephemeral appetites, of all the sensibilities of n
egoism, to which I nevertheless surrender myself, so
that they indeed seem myself ? Through and above
this troubled atmosphere I see a being, pure, passion¬
less, rightly measuring the proportions and relations
of things, for whom there is, properly speaking, no
present, with its phantasms, falsities, and half-truths :
who has nothing personal in the sense of being
opposed to the whole of related personalities: who
sees the truth rather than struggles logically towards
it, und truth of which I can at present form no con¬
ception: whose activities are unimpeded by intel¬
lectual doubt, unperverted by moral depravity, and
who is indifferent to results, because he has not to guide
his conduct by calculation of them, or by any
estimate of their value. I look up to him with awe,
because in being passionless he sometimes seems to
me to be without love. Yet I know that this is
not so; only that his love is diffused by its range, and
elevated in abstraction beyond my gaze and com¬
prehension. And I see in this being my ideal, my
higher, my only true, in a word, my immortal self.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT
BRITAIN.
A CIRCULAR has been issued to the members of
the Psychological Society by Mr. F. K, Munton, the
honorary secretary, saying :—
“ The Council of the Psychological Society desires
to direct the special attention of its members to an
experiment commenced at the close of the last and
to be continued in the next session.
“ The experience of five years has shown that facts
are wanting for the efficient progress of our science.
Speculation has been supplied in abundance, but the
facts reported are comparatively few.
“It has long been a desideratum in science that
the reporters of experiments should be open to ques¬
tions, where objections may at once be made and
answered, and it has often been proposed that
scientific evidence should be procured by a process
very similar to that by which Courts1 of Justice
arrive at the truth—by the vivd voce examination of
witnesses.
“ The Psychological Society has been the first to
adopt this course, and with signal advantage. The
experiment has been tried with entire success.
“ The following is the plan pursued. Persons who
have witnessed psychological facts and phenomena
are invited to attend a meeting of the society and
report these vivd voce. Members are entitled to
question the witness as to any part of the statement,
either to elicit further explanation or to test
accuracy, and at the close of the evidence there is a
discussion.
“No difficulty has been found in procuring wit¬
nesses, and several have promised thus to report in
the course of the coming session.
“ It is unnecessary to dwell upon the advantage to
science generally, but especially to psychology, of
the novel plan thus successfully adopted. To the
meetings of the society it gives an attraction and
interest such as scientific gatherings have not hitherto
known, contrasting profitably as pleasurably with
mere essay reading.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 7, 1879.
AN UTTERANCE.
BY W. H. HARRISON.
I DO not know to what extent any one is justified
in intruding personal matters upon the Spiritualist
public, but if sustaining in silence for months per¬
sonal attacks from a journal heavily subsidised by
a Spiritualist organisation, and furthermore receiving
a widely-circulated printed attack founded upon
personal points, and issued by the British National
Association of Spiritualists, give a right of reply, I
ask for permission to be briefly heard.
Some years ago a few of us founded the British
National Association of Spiritualists, and in attending
adverse public meetings to hear and consider the
views of objectors, learnt that they did not wish to
found a new ecclesiastical or any other crystallised
power. They told us how various of the old-established
organisations had proved, in several instances, to be
instruments of persecution, and how they wished to
see no parallel cases in Spiritualism. Our reply
always was : What you say is very true, but we will
guard against that by throwing all our proceedings
freely open to the public, and with this absence of
secrecy, all abuses will be nipped in the bud by the
always honest (however sometimes mistaken and
inefficient) voice of public opinion.
Afterwards'we faithfully kept our promises. The
Council of the National Association of Spiritualists
sat in public, and' in an irregular way the proceed¬
ings of the committees were public in a clumsy yet
effective, fashion; that is to say, the chairmen of
them were supposed to report monthly all their acts,
and their necessary failures in this respect were un¬
important, because, if any member wanted to know
what they were doing, Miss Kislingbury, the secre¬
tary, simply handed them the committee books, and
let them read for themselves. Nobody then dreamt
of having anything to conceal, and all may have
been pleased that anybody should wish to inspect
the honest work they were executing.
But times changed. Those who had particular
ends to carry felt the publicity irksome. The
Council decreed, by a deliberate resolution (which I
opposed), that the members should no longer be
allowed to read the committee books; it further
decreed, by deliberate resolution, that the doings of
the committees, as recorded in their books, should
not be read regularly at the monthly public meetings
of the Council, which is the usual and proper way of
destroying privacy in public bodies. Furthermore,
no bar was placed to committees taking up subjects
the Council had never ordered them to take up, and
going on with them for a long time without the
knowledge or consent of the managing body.
Thus knots of persons in committees can now carry
on for some time all kinds of work in secret, and if
they wish can spring it suddenly on the unsuspecting
Council.
At present, as a matter of fact, the General Pur¬
poses Committee, which sits in the strictest privacy,
and will not let its minute books as of yore be freely ex¬
amined by the members at large, can carry on all
kinds of secret work, and afterwards get it sanctioned,
if it chooses, by a majority at the Council by a good
attendance thereat of its own members. In fact, the
steward (the Committee) has, if it chooses, its master
(the Council) under its thumb. The private work
can be made to rule, and the ostensibly public work
be reduced merely to a matter of form.
Thus the original pledges to the objectors to
organisation have been broken, and the seeds of a
tyrannical and objectionable power in Spiritualism
have been sown. The evils foreseen by objectors to
organisation have begun to come to pass.
As each downward step was taken, I opposed it by
a motion, thus getting an entry upon the minute
book of the Council to prove that each step was taken
knowingly and wilfully. By putting this unanswer¬
able evidence on record, I am afraid I made myself
much disliked. And in sounding the alarm in the
press that the public working of the machinery was
in course of eclipse by the veil of secrecy, inharmony
necessarily resulted.
At last came the disruption. A number of us left
the Council, or the Association, and would not be
responsible for the work of degradation going on.
I will now bring forward a specimen of the kind
of treatment I receive for having attended to the
public interests. In the last number of Spiritual
Notes is a paragraph intimating that its publisher
had refused to issue it any longer, because of pres¬
sure brought to bear by The Spiritualist—a
spiteful line of action on the part of this journal,
which, if true, would be calculated to strongly
prejudice it in the eyes of the public. But
there was no truth whatever in the statement,
as the following extracts show. The one quotation
is from Spiritual Notes, the other is the letter which
one of its proprietors and its apparent editor, Mr.
E. I). Rogers, had delivered to him at his office in
Shoe-lane, on the 24th October, or a week before the
paragraph was printed :—
THE FICTITIOUS REASON.
From “Spiritual Fates" Nov. 1,1879-
“ As our readers know, we
have persistently defended the
Council of the British National
Association from the unjust at¬
tacks which have been made in
the pages of The Spiritualist.
It has ever been a most dis¬
agreeable duty, but it has been
a duty that had to be done, for
false allegations allowed to pass
uncontradicted would come,
sooner or later, to be generally
accepted as true. Now, we find
that the ire of the enemies of
the B.N.A.S. is turned upon
ourselves. Pressure has been
brought to bear upon our pub¬
lisher, who is also publisher of
The Spiritualist, to induce him
to discontinue the publication of
Spiritual Notes, and he has been
compelled to yield. We have
no complaint to make against
Mr. Allen, who is in every way
a courteous and obliging gentle¬
man ; but we regret that others
should have had recourse to so
mean an attempt to injure us.
Happily their efforts will be
without avail. We anticipate
no difficulty in finding another
publisher; meanwhile, all orders
and other communications should
be addressed to Mr. Thomas
Blyton, 53, Sigdon-road, Dal-
ston, E.”
THE REAL REASON.
Dear Sir,—It having come
to my knowledge that legal
proceedings are about to be
taken against me, as the pub¬
lisher of Spiritual Notes, for a
libel contained in the October
number, I beg to inform you I
have discontinued the sale of it,
and request that you will re¬
move my name as publisher
from all futare issues of the
paper, as I decline any longer to
undertake that responsibility.—
Yours truly, E. W. Allen.”
Mr. Blyton, at whose house the last number of
223
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 7, 1879.
Spiritual Notes was published, was aware of the
untruth of the contents of the paragraph, as proved
by the following letter from Mr. Allen :—
11, Ave Maria-lane, and 11, Stationers’ Hall-court, London,
November 5th, 1879.
Dear Mr. Harrison,—I have never told Mr. E. D. Rogers
or Mr. Ely ton that any pressure from you or any one connected
with The Spiritualist caused me to discontinue the publication
of Spiritual Notes.
On the contrary, some time ago I told Mr. Blyton that I had
voluntarily offered to discontinue its publication if you so
desired, and that your reply was:—“ Do whatever you please,
Mr. Allen. All I ask is that you tell the people who have to do
with it nothing about my affairs, and I want to know nothing
about theirs.”
I further told Mr. Blyton that I disliked the attacks on you
and others in Spiritual Notes, and that unless its tone altered I
must cease to publish it.
Mr. Rogers said he must insert my letter to him in the
November number of Spiritual Notes, stating why I threw up
the publication of that journal, in order that the readers might
know. I gave him permission, but I see he has not done so.
I do not wish to mix in any controversies, but think it my
duty to state the bare facts, having had my attention called to
the statement in Spiritual Notes that I had been compelled to
yield to the pressure which had been brought to bear upon me,
I being “ also the publisher of The Spiritualist.” This state¬
ment has no foundation.—Truly yours, E. W. Allen.
I did not inform Mr. Allen that the contents of
Spiritual Notes were under examination by lawyers,
and do not know who gave him the information, nor
have I had anything to do with the journal getting
into the hands of the lawyers. No reader of these
lines has had less to do with the matter than I have,
and the paragraph is nothing but a wicked fabrication
tending to arouse public feeling against me.
I see that in the same number of Spiritual Notes
Mr. Rogers, who is about the most active of the
working members of the Council of the National
Association of Spiritualists, issues a circular to the
public for the purpose of raising funds to carry on
this kind of “ high-class ” journalism.
At the Council meeting, Mr. Stainton Moses moved
that a circular drawn up by his committee should be
printed and circulated, and it was agreed to. It is
full of abuse. Here are a few of the opening
sentences :—
“Sir (or Madam),—It will be within your knowledge that
Mr. Harnson was recently requested to vacate an office occupied
by him on the premises of the Association. You may also be
aware that his attempts so to pull the wires as to control the
action of the Council on a plan of his own met with ludicrous
failure, scarcely any of his fourteen resolutions finding even a
seconder among his more practical colleagues.
“Irritated by this failure to obtain the exclusive power at
which he grasped, and by the request made to him that he would
retire from the premises of the Association,” &c.
What are the facts ? They are that in print T had
thoroughly condemned the measures of the Council,
many weeks before its members hit upon the act of
small revenge of giving me notice to quit the little
office I had there. In condemning the Council, how
could I have been irritated by an event which had
not then occurred ?
I cared nothing for the office there ; indeed, of my
own accord, had been in treaty for a new one at 41,
Great Russell-street, some six months before the
events now under notice. At the present time I have
one a few doors off, at a lower rental,and with peaceful
surroundings.
The motions the Council rejected would merely
have given the mode of procedure in common prac-
j | tical use all over the kingdom in Town Councils, to
(I prevent public work being done in secret. I have
| seen and studied in practical operation the workings
| of scores of organisations, and only one or two of the
i working members of fthe Council know about the
| principles of constitutional government.
| How could I have been trying to obtain exclusive
power, when my motions were directed to breaking
• | down exclusive power, and keeping all possible power
• in the hands of the public, and when I strenuously
)\ opposed for a very long time the desire expressed by
j Mr. Martin Smith, Mr. C. C. Massey, and others, that
11 I would take a seat on the Council ?
Ten years ago I began public work in Spiritualism,
11 and all that time the movement has spent annually
11 in competition with my journal more than twice as
>| much in public subscriptions as it has spent in
j | its support; that is to say, the special subscriptions to
>| my journal have averaged about £200 a year, and to
\\ the journal of my neighbour £500, so that in the
>| ten years I have had to compete single-handed
< | against about £3,000 of public capital. In order to
jj attend to Spiritualism I gradually gave up literary
<| work on The Engineer newspaper, scientific re vie w-
) ing on the Morning Post, other work on the British
(I Journal of Photography, and several other engage-
>| ments. Below is an old letter I chanced to find the
!' | other day from the publisher of The Engineer:—
Office of The Engineer, 163, Strand, London, W.C.
12th July, 1875.
Dear Sir,—As you inform us that a certificate to the follosv-
I ing effect would be calculated to do you good, I have much
| pleasure in stating that up to about six years ago your remunera-
I tion for literary work done for this journal frequently averaged
from eight to twelve, and on some few occasions twenty pounds
per month, and that you have voluntarily withdrawn from this
work during the past five or six years, so as to have received
probably less than twenty pounds a year from us.—Yours faith¬
fully, G. L. Riche, Publisher.
i W. H. Harrison, Esq.
After voluntarily, and without regret, making a
sacrifice of ten years of my life, so far as material
| interests are concerned, it is not pleasant to be
bespattered with mud by a knot of Spiritualists,
most of whom are unknown to the movement as
| regards public services, and who can only find one
| or two Spiritualists of standing to remain and work
) j with them. When I am dead and gone, and when any
(j man or any body of men is persecuted by a powerful
)j National Association by means of acts long planned
jj in secret, The Spiritualist newspaper will not be
)j thought to have disgraced itself in trying to kill the
jj seeds of tyranny.
As this journal has now quite washed its hands of
jj the actions of the present Council, possibly there will
)j henceforth be peace, while thinking men will look on
jj in sorrow, at managers whose last act is to ask that
(j more pressure of public opinion shall be brought to
jj bear upon them, before they will perform their duty
<’ j of dealing with abuses to which their attention has
j j been called, and for which they are responsible.
(I • ^ . J
) i On Tuesdays Miss Cook gives invitation free seances, by
j j I sanction of Mr. Charles Blackburn, at 33, Museum-street.
)i Mr. Kiddle, Superintendent of Schools at New York, has
| (\ been superseded by one of his assistants, for publicly expressing
jjj his belief in Spiritualism from evidence obtained in his own
hi home. Otherwise, he was a man highly respected by the unin-
> formed multitude. There was great excitement on the* day of
1)1 the election of the new officer.
224
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Hoy. 7, 1870.
SPIRITUALISM IN INDIA. j
The last mail from India lias brought us from (
several correspondents, including Colonel and Mrs. |(
Gordon, details enough to fill a volume, about the j
contention on Spiritualism going on in that country, h
Attention was drawn to the subject in the first in- <
stance by the letter of Mrs. Gordon in The Pioneer, )
(Allahabad), one of the best newspapers in India, j/
All the subsequent correspondence is now before us, |j
and some of it consists of the old and threadbare |)
arguments for and against Spiritualism. The follow- |j
ing letter, however, contains soinething new to j>
English readers, many of whom would be glad to get | j
facilities for the observation of the strong psychical |>
powers possessed by a few of the Indian fakirs ;—
THE POWERS OF PAUL JOPPER.
To the Editor of The Pioneer." \ (
Sir,—Was Spiritualism known in India sixty years j(
ago ? I am unable to answer the question. I only j)
know that a Paul Jopper, in Madras, did, apparently j(
unaided, all the strange things your correspondent, !}
“Still in the Dark,” describes having witnessed in !(
your issue of the 6th instant, as the transfer of rings, |)
removal of furniture, &c., and Paul Jopper did more K
at seayices held at very distinguished houses ; indeed, j)
where the crhne de la creme alone were invited to |)
witness the strange powers of this marvellous man. U
He changed their jewellery and under-linen without |)
their knowledge, dressing the gentlemen in ladies’ j)
belongings, and giving to the ladies frilled shirts in j|
exchange for what was taken from them, the amiable |)
beholders meanwhile quite unconscious of their j)
larceny until they got home to undress. I cannot 1/
explain the agency. I only know Paul Jopper did
these things while he walked up aud down on the j)
stage erected for him, entertaining his audience with j
legerdemajn tricks. His last feat was to summon a <
lady who had been dead twenty years at the earnest j>
entreaty of her husband, who came to see her spirit. |(
She came blooming, real, life-like, with her arms j)
stretched put to her husband, a high Government \\
official. With a loud cry fie was rushing to her, j)
when the lights all suddenly went out, the doors and |
windows clapped to, as if moved by a mighty wind, |
and the gentleman fell insensible where he expected !\
to embrace his wife. This reads very like a fairy |j
tale, and many, wise in their o\yn conceit, may |(
laugh at the recital; buf it all happened, and Paul !
Jopper was a real man with very wonderful ability. I
He made a mint of meney, but did not save much 1)
for bis family, his charities being most extensive, j
By birth he yyas reputed a Frenchman, but he |l
bad none of his people with him in Madras. He |j
was travelling by himself just to exercise his strange ||
powers His end was sudden and very dreadful. j|
He was found one morning with his brains dashed j]
out, and his skull much battered. The doors and j
windows of his room were well secured from the j
inside, and visible human agency could not be pointed j
tp as bping engaged in this awful end. Net a vestige H
of the brain was to be found anywhere, theugh
| bleed was en the wall to show where the skull had
i been pelted ; nor was the heart found, though the
I trunk was there, and the awestruck beholders
whispered that Paul Jopper was claimed by the
devil. Perhaps there are still some living in Madras
who can testify to the conjuring powers of this
strange man. Again, there was a Brahmin in Poona,
about fifteen years after Paul Jopper, who was no
disciple of his, who could perform quite as incom¬
prehensible feats. Naked, but for the stinted yard
of cloth round his middle, this man would, in a little
while, ccver the ground round about him with the
most beautiful flowers, all as if but newly culled,
and offer them to any one, in season and out of
season. Where did he get his flowers from ? To
beholders he only drew them out of a lighted candle;
it was all his apparatus ; he had no sleeves, no
turban, no liberal dhotee, and yet the flowers were
very real indeed, and my husband once got a bouquet
of them because he doubted their reality, and the
Brahmin called him a bucha. We are all of us
buchas to my thinking, while we cannot explain what
puzzles our understanding, pooh-poohing facts as if
that disposes of them.
CLAIRVOYANCE.
The following article is from The Inventors'
Record, in which it bears the title, “ Startling
Discovery: the Alleged Separation of Mind from
Matter during Life ” :—•
We have received from a respected correspondent
particulars of a remarkable experiment resulting in
phenomena which must lead to revelations of a very
startling character.
Our correspondent claims to have discovered a new
application of magneto-electricity, by which the mind
of a patient has acquired the power of apparently
releasing itself from the trammels of matter, and of
transporting itself to places distant from the body,
which remains in a condition of repose, resembling
the effect produced by anaesthetics. Whilst under
this electric influence (the manner of which our cor¬
respondent will not at present disclose) the mind can
be directed to any spot or scene, and is susceptible of
the same impressions and conditions as would be
experienced in the person of the patient himself.
Scenes thus visited, and impressions thus received,
are not only quite accurate, but the patient, when
released from the electric influence, retains a perfect
remembrance of information so acquired.
Our correspondent informs us that his patient, on
recovering from a prolonged state of coma, insisted
most strenuously in the assurance that he had
visited a scene and noted every detail of an event
many miles away. He appeared to be so thoroughly
convinced this was no mental delusion that careful
inquiries were instituted, which led to a surprising
corroboration of all the circumstantial minutise.
Utterly astonished at such an unexpected mani¬
festation of mental faculties beyond the limits of
any abnormal power of the ordinary senses, our
correspondent was induced to repeat the experiment,
selecting another patient unacquainted with the mar¬
vellous occurrence related. On returning to sensi¬
bility this patient also described events he had
mentally witnessed, all which proved to be accurate
Nov. 7, .1379.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
225
in every particular. In order, however, to place the
phenomena beyond doubt, our correspondent subjected
himself to the electric treatment with the same
result, and, after repeated personal tests, has arrived
at the conviction that the body can be so acted on by
electricity as to develop qualities and activity of
mind marvellous in their range, and vast in their
importance.
Is there any connection between such phenomena
and the recognised facts classed under electrobiology ?
Are we really approaching the solution of a great
problem of life, which will reveal mysterious forces
in nature hitherto unknown ?
That great philosopher Humboldt tells us that eca
presumptuous scepticism which rejects facts without
examination of their truth is, in some respects, more
injurious than unquestioning credulity,” and we know
that “ there are more things in heaven and earth than
are dreamt of in our philosophy.”
Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace, in an essay on miracles,
has related many instances of miraculous clairvoyance.
He tells us that Sir Walter C. Trevelyan once received
a letter from a lady, in which she mentioned the' loss
of a gold watch. Sir Walter sent the letter to a
doctor who had a patient professing this strange
power. The patient immediately described the watch
accurately, depicted the furniture of the house,
named the thief, and declared that she could recog¬
nise the culprit’s handwriting. Her statements
were doubted, for they fixed the theft on a favourite
servant; but subsequent events proved every word
to be true.
Our correspondent, whose eminent position in the
medical and scientific world entitles his opinion to
great respect, promises to make known the exact
method employed to produce this extraordinary
phenomenon, which he considers is susceptible of
very simple scientific explanation, and which he
believes it is in the power of every person to develop
in himself.
Should the facts stated by our correspondent be
ultimately substantiated by further evidence, it is
almost impossible to measure the extent to which
such a discovery must rgvolntionise all modern
thought and action, The contingencies of temporarily
quitting at will our encumbrances of the flesh, and
defying time, space, and all the ipamutable laws of
the material universe, require a desperate flight of
imagination to conceive.
We shall find ourselves face to face with a new era
of philosophical inquiry. A light will fall athwart
the dark untrodden paths where lie the mysteries of
conscious life, and we shall break from our finite bonds
to stand in the presence of the infinite.
MB. PLEICHEB AND DB. SLADE.
Sib,—ML Fletcher describes as a “ pais state meat ” my asser¬
tion that he had aspersed Dr. Slade, and says, 11 have never
done so in the Whitehall Review, or any other paper.” Nobody
ever alleged that Mr. Fletcher wrote the article in the Whitehall
Review, and Mr. Fletcher knows that that is not what was
alleged. But this is what the Whitehall reviewer says that Mr.
Fletcher said to him:—“ There are men, not necessarily im¬
postors, but charlatans, who have disgraced our creed. For my
own part, when I learnt that an American had rendered Spirit¬
ualism detestable and contemptible in this country, I at once
resolved to come over and wipe out that disgrace. I have
already partially succeeded.” In your paper of September 26th,
a correspondent, f< W. 0. P.,” quoted the above, and asked if Dr.
Slade was meant. In your paper of October Brd, Mr. Fletcher
admitted that he had said—{repeated ” is his word—“ that
Spiritualism had been disgraced by an American medium,” but
went on to say that “ he did not mention Dr. Slade, or any one
else.” Neither did he impugn the accuracy of the Whitehall
report, nor did he venture to say that the allusion was not, in
fact, to Dr. Slade.
Now, if Mr. Fletcher will tell us (1) that he did not mean
Slade, (2) whom it was he did mean, and (8) will explain why he
did not make these statements in reply to <f W. C. P.and if,
moreover, he can get any three known Spiritualists, say
of his colleagues on the Council of the British National
Association of Spiritualists—two of his selection and one
of mine — to say that such statements and explana¬
tions are satisfactory, and fairly account for Mr. Fletcher’s
language as reported in the Whitehall Revieio without supposing
any reference to Dr. Slade, I will not only withdraw my state¬
ments and observations, but will sign an apology in any terms
that such three gentlemen shall consider reasonable and proper,
and will advertise it at my own expense in any newspaper Mr.
Fletcher pleases.
In the meantime, I call special attention, without comment, to
the mode in which Mr. Fletcher thinks it creditable to answer a
question and to meet a statement. He is asked if he meant
Slade. He says, hi did not mention Dr. Slade, or any one else.”
It is alleged that he has aspersed Slade. He says, “ I have
never done so in the Whitehall Revieiv, or any other paper.”
And the statements he thus meets. he ventures to call “ mis¬
statements.”
I am not going to discuss with Mr. Fletcher the position in
the newspaper press of the Whitehall Revieio. 3 think it very
likely he knows that paper much better than I do. In the last
Banner of Light that has come to hand, “Fidelity” informs
the American public that ” Life, one of the most fashionable
journals, is out with a long article concerning Mr. Fletcher, who
seems to be a friend of all the literati. I suppose it is because
I know so little of fashion that I had hardly ever heard of Life,
though I have some faint recollection of seeing its title. It is
not that I grudge Mr. Fletcher an advertisement that I show up
these absurd misrepresentations about obscure newspapers. On
the contrary, I should be delighted to read an appreciative ac¬
count of his mediumship in The Times. But “Fidelity” is
supposed to inform Americans of the state of Spiritualism in
this country, and so the character of his (or her) letters in the
Banner of Light is worth exposing.
0. 0. Massey,
Temple, October 31st.
SPIBIfUALISM M THE PBOVINCES.
Sib,—Silently but surely Spiritualism is becoming the “ little
leaven that leavens the whole lump the pulpit is unmistakably
feeling its influence, the press its power, and treating it with
more respect; the people begin to feel its significance, for more
than ever I hear it said, “ Well, I believe there is something in
it, and if it is not true it ought to be, it is so beautiful.”
The cries of “humbug,” “delusion,” “knaves,” “dupes,”
“ devil,” and “ insanity” are less frequently heard, and explana¬
tions are listened to with respect, while in a company of a dozen
intelligent persons there is sure to be one or more who is practi¬
cally acquainted with the phenomena from personal experience ;
but while this is true they shrink from any public avowal of
their knowledge, and the propagandist and disseminatpry labours
of the few (comparatively speaking) are all but ignored. This
may be from a variety of motives—fear of public opinion, pro¬
bable ostracism and loss of caste or of custom, expulsion from
membership in the church or chapel, or a failure to see the duty
of “ having freely received,” to “ freely give,” that others may
participate in the joyful certainty of immortality, Or they may
be of opinion that Spiritualism consists of a “ series of facts
which have no moral significance,” or feel that it should not be
made too cheap, and that there is great danger in indiscriminate
advocacy and investigation. Be that as it may, the fact remains,
and has yet to be accounted for, that Spiritualists as a body are
not so earnest or zealous, so self-sacrificing or even consistent,
as many of their benighted brethren, whether secularists or ortho¬
dox worshippers. Many an inquirer has been astonished at this
226
THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 7, 1879.
lukewarmness, this indifference to the necessities of others, and i /
has asked, “ How is it that you Spiritualists, who claim so much, j (
who assert that you are convinced of man’s immortality, how is i \
it you do not “go into all the world, and preach this gospel to j)
every creature ?” You say there are five hundred Spiritualists |)
in this town. “ "Where are they ? Where do they meet ? ; <
Have they any organisation?” said a gentleman in my hearing, K
and the only answer was, “ No. There is a little room up a back |)
entry capable of holding twenty or thirty persons, but it is only I)
opened by a poor man whose heart is so much larger than his '!<
means, that he does his little best towards providing the de- ! \
ficieucy.” The man who asked the question naturally expressed |)
his astonishment at this state of things.
Another friend, in conversation with an acquaintance, was in- | (
formed that he (the latter) was not aware that the Spirit- j\
ualists had any literature. Private circles, home seances, &c., I)
are necessary and useful; but, Mr. Editor, the question arises, I)
Are not the people who say they “ can get all they want at j (
home ” of the selfish class, who H hide their light under a bushel ?” ! (
Are not public advocacy and united effort equally necessary and ! \
useful ? Are the ignorant masses, led by their blind leaders, to j)
fall into the ditch of materialism, or the pool of despondency, j)
owing to unanswered doubts and unsatisfied longings ? Are the I c
heart-hungry, the bereaved, the suffering thousands to cry for j (
help, for pity and light, and only the doors of churches and l)
chapels to stand invitingly open ? There at least they may meet j)
witn sympathy and fellowship, and be stimulated to a life of hope- | ('
fulness, in spite of the cold dreary dogmas, rites, and creeds they ] (
inculcate. Is it not the duty of all who have discovered the j)
truth to promulgate it ? All who have received the light to |)
reflect it for others ? If it is, as a writer states, “ the Alpha and | <
Omega of religion,” “ the glad tidings of great joy,” and, as Spirit- I (
ualists claim, reveals “the future state, and demonstrates that I)
the future happiness of mankind is dependent upon present !)
life-fulfilment of duty and manifestation of love to man; ” then i
must we look to it that we fail not in our duty to our neigh- i (
hour, which is clearly to so “let our light shine before men that K
they see our good works,” and, recognising the source of the j)
inspiration, “glorify God accordingly,” else may we not find I)
ourselves weighed in the balances and found wanting ? guilty of I (
failing to offer the cup of knowledge and consolation to the least | (
among the brethren of the family of God ? i>
Let us all be up and doing, i (
With, a heart for any fate, i (
Still achieving, still pursuing, | (
Learn to labour and to ■wait. •
These thoughts have been forced upon me by contemplation of j;
the exoteric work of Spiritualism.
In your next, with your permission, I will send some items of i \
local interest respecting the cause in various towns in the pro- j \
vinces, and show that while in some centres Spiritualists are j;
alive to their duty, in others, public advocacy is extinct, or nearly |)
so, where a few years ago flourishing societies existed.
Signs are, however, not wanting in many of these of renewed I s
activity, and the coming winter bids fair to be one of the most j)
remarkable seasons of zealous and self-sacrificing labour on i>
behalf of Spiritualism. Should the present signs of returning j)
trade be followed by a permanent revival of business, I have no | (
doubt the work will be no longer one of defence, but that the war i)
will be carried into the enemy’s camp till superstition and doubt j>
shall be destroyed, and man arise from his thraldom, claim his
spiritual birthright, and self-reliantly walk the earth in conscious ! (
communion with the sainted ones of his home and heart.
Excelsior. i)
EYELESS MOLLUSC A.
Sir,—1 do not think the matter of great consequence, but I j)
was quite aware of the facts mentioned by Mr. Carter-Blake of ! /
the ocelli of the genus Pecten, and of the sensibility of the oyster |«
to light; and in my note to you accompanying the paper, “ What ! s
May be Known of God,” I mentioned those facts as exceptions j)
to the general statement, which is true. Perhaps I should have !)
said most of the bivalve mollusca.
I mentioned also in my note, incidentally, regarding the \
Bacon-Shakespeare question, that the 135th and 136th sonnets of ! >
Shakespeare seem to have been written by one whose Christian j)
name was William.
In my paper “Prochis ” is a misprint for “ Proclus.” j)
J. W. Earquhar. I)
October 25th. IS
EORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—Dr. Wyld refers in your last to his limited experience,
and infers that the medium and spirit form are the same thing, sud¬
denly transformed, which really means “ doubting all mediums,” yet
asking Mr. load and Mr. Massey to corroborate previous assertions of
mine that they are two separate forms. Now what does this mean ?
Are these gentlemen to be judges of me, and of what they may
not have had the same facilities of beholding ?
On the 20th January last, at Signor Bondi’s, Miss Cook was
stripped of all her clothing by Mrs. Louisa Andrews, and other
ladies ; then a large fur coat belonging to Mr. Green, a visitor,
was placed on her, and she was brought forth at once from a back
room into the stance room, and placed behind two curtains (used
for a cabinet). She took her seat on a chair. Her own clothing,
forming a bundle, was put in the opposite corner of the room to
the cabinet. A circle of seven or eight persons sat round the
cabinet, and in ten minutes the form “ Lillie,” with a profusion of
white drapery, appeared at the opening of the curtain in dim light,
and Mrs. Andrews wrote: “ In this seance I am sure there was
no deception. I was permitted to place my hand upon the head
and face of Miss Cook, which were very warm and overheated, and
whilst I felt them stone cold hands patted mine, and took
firm hold of my arm up to the shoulder with larger and firmer
hands than the medium’s, and while my sister placed her hand on
Miss Cook’s forehead, the back of her hand was kissed,” &c.
Cannot Dr. Wyld believe that seance and the writer of it, and
does he not see that transformation suddenly was impossible ?
Or does he want the two gentlemen to confirm it before he is
satisfied ?
Again, on the 31st of March I took Miss Cook to Mr.
Eletcher’s, and had an “ absolute test ” inside the cabinet.
Mrs. Eletcher held the medium, whilst I, at the same moment,
held and was talking with the spirit form outside, in the presence
of three strangers, who signed their names—see article, 18th April
newspaper—and 1 ask, could this be a sudden illusion, or does it
require Messrs. load and Massey to confirm what I write when
other persons have already signed ?
Only three weeks ago, at 33, Museum-street, when Miss Cook
was in the cabinet in trance, Messrs. load and Massey heard
Lillie call me from them to put my hand on the medium’s head.
I did so, and Lillie formed visibly over the medium’s lap, and
then kissed me, whilst my hand never left the medium’s head.
All this is “water on the duck’s back,” and in time, when
Messrs. load and Massey write their own reports, I suppose you.
Dr. Wyld, will still retain your unbelief. The question now is,
How is the second form compiled or created out of the medium,
and can instantly vanish with its drapery ?
Charles Blackburn.
Parkfleld, Didsbury, near Manchester, Nov., 1S79,
THE TEMPLE OF DAMBOOL.
Mr. Martheze informs us that while he was in
Ceylon he did not see much worth noting, except
the Temple of Dam bool, which contains the colossal
statues of the ancient kings and priests of Ceylon.
The largest statue is twenty-seven feet long, and in
a recumbent posture. It is said to have been hewn
out of the solid rock in one night by spirits. He also
saw the sacred Bo-tree, planted about 2,000 years ago,
and still green. At the time he was in Ceylon, it so
happened that there was not a single good fakir in
the island, so he witnessed no genuine psychical phe¬
nomena among the natives. One of the Buddhist
priests in Ceylon recently wrote to us for information
about Spiritualism, and for a supply of copies of The
Spiritualist.
Mr. John S. Earmer is about to bring out a book entitled
Spiritualism as a New Basis of Belief.
Mr. John Campian, secretary to the Manchester and Salford
Spirituahsts’ Society, wishes to make known that on the ninth
of this month Mr. Thomas Walker, the Australian trance medium,
will give two addresses in the large ball, Pendleton Club,
Broughton-road, Pendleton, Manchester—the first at 2.30 p.m.,
the second at 6.30 p.m.
227
Nov. 7, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
A HAUNTED HOUSE.
BY FANNY TERRY.
From June until October of the present year I
was residing in Stuttgart for amusement and the
study of music, before commencing my professional
career. My continual practising on a stringed instru¬
ment was considered a nuisance by the inmates of
the boarding-house. Fortunately I discovered a
large room in the entresol used for storing away
furniture, and quite isolated from the rest of the
house. The hostess fitted up this room for me as a
comfortable dwelling-room and bedroom combined,
after the Continental fashion. The walls were white¬
washed, and the room had three square - sized
windows overlooking the garden.
W  Villa—I keep back the name of the
house—stands in a large garden, most pleasantly
situated. It had been empty for some years, until
bought and let to a Mrs. B  as a boarding¬
house.
On Thursday, September 11th, I moved into my
room, and slept soundly and well. I was delighted
with the change, as I could practise and sing all day
without fear of annoying any one. On Wednesday,
the 17th, as I went into my room at ten o’clock at
night, a cold something touched my cheek, invisible
to me. Nothing further happened on that night,
but on the following Wednesday, September 24th, I
had been spending the evening with friends, and as I did
not feel sleepy when retiring to rest, read until about
eleven o’clock, when I was surprised to hear some one
reading or speaking aloud in my room. I put out
my candle, but the voice ceased; when I relighted
the light and sat down to my book, the voice began
again, but at the extreme end of the room. It seemed
a man-like woman’s voice; the language spoken was
Swabish, which I am not conversant with. I asked
every one in the house the next day if they were
awake at the hour I heard the voice. I received
from all a negative reply.
The rooms near me were uninhabited, and no
sound could be heard by those sleeping nearest to
me, from my room, in the inhabited parts of the
house. I mentioned to Mrs. B , the hostess,
what I heard ; she began to cry, and said that for
some nights past she had felt her hair pulled and
sundry pinches on her arm, but begged me not to
mention it to her family, as they would be frightened,
and it might prove injurious to her custom.
A week elapsed, and nothing occurred ; but on the
Wednesday night following I had gone to bed early,
being tired. At eleven o’clock something touched my
head, and stood over me, saying, “ Beten, beten,
schnell ” (Pray, pray quickly), in an angry tone. I
lighted my lamp and read a chapter in the Bible.
As I read the voice ceased. This continued. several
nights, always at eleven o’clock ; but if I said or
read a prayer in English, the voice mumbled on aloud,
and only ceased when I offered up a prayer or read in
German. I spoke, asking it, “ Was ist deinbegehr ? ’
(What do you want ?) ; but it would not answer
me. I was getting nervous and weak, so left
Stuttgart. To all inquiries respecting W  Villa
I could hear nothing satisfactory; it was reported to
be haunted, but by whom or what no one seemed to
know. Many years ago an old castle stood in the
!(j garden now called W  Villa, where a foul
|)l murder was supposed to have been committed. I
| | saw no figure belonging to the voice, or even a light,
ill I was in good health at the time, and am not a
Kj nervous person.
I)! 6, Pembroke Villas, Richmond, Surrey.
INSTINCT AND PREVISION.
| BY HENRY 0. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO MISS
i MARTINEAU.”
It seems to me that Spiritualists of all denomina-
11 tions confine their attention and reasoning too exclu-
>j sively to man, and psychologists and metaphysicians
j are hardly more disposed to correct and enlarge
11 their notions by a more scientific view of all the
11 correlated facts concerned in any of the problems of
> | life and mind. Now, of all the phases of clair-
i voyance, prophecy and prevision seem the most
> j unaccountable, as much so as with an inex-
|| perienced and untaught bird in building a nest
precisely adapted for what is to follow, but
(| of which it could not possibly be aware, and
)j which suggests a formative spiritual principle in
j the development of the correlated, interdependent
(j complex organism of the bird having the instinct,
(j and the instinct as a secondary conservative and
>1 formative principle; and we cannot suppose con-
(j sciousness in the one case more than in the other,
(i and must in both instances ignore experience, not-
\ i withstanding the theory of inherited experience—the
)j great materialistic blunder of the age—from Mr.
\ | Herbert Spencer trying to establish conceivability as
(! the criterion of truth—“ the universal postulate,” as
>| he calls it. No doubt knowledge is derived from
(| observation and experience; but intuition and
(| instinct are facts observed, as much so as the corre-
I lated development of complex organism, and the
(| growth of plants, and indeed the whole of the
operations observed in nature, for which no reason
)| can be given—not even for the fact of the
?! observation itself—for experience rests on intuition,
}| which all perception must be ; and in denying per-
<| ception idealism is really the most mechanical of
) | doctrines and the least spiritual, and by no effort of
(j the imagination can you comprehend how the mere
)j atoms, with their attractions and repulsions, could
(| result in a hen or cat. Then what becomes of con-
>! ceivability as the test of truth ? The doctrine is
II that “ that is true the contrary of which is inconceiv-
>1 able,” whereas the contrary is inconceivable in pro-
(j portion to the amount of positive evidence; and thus
> I it is that men place things in a reversed order to
(| support their pre-notions, and false theories.
We perceive, then, a clear relation and analogy
\| between prophecy and prevision, the formative
?! principle and the instincts of animals, and how the
| facts of experience and observation must be intuitive
?i or instinctive ; and that the perception in reasoning
(\ is really not different. All this brings us to view
Iq nature as wholly magical, spiritual, and transcen-
| dental, as fundamentally beyond all human conceiv¬
ability, showing how the powers of mind and the
nature of reason have been mistaken, for facts and
the facts only constitute all that we know, or can
know, as according to the first aphorism of the
i Novum Organum of Francis Bacon.
228
THE BPI RITUALIST.
Nov. 7, 1873.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OH
animal magnetism.
By the ate Wm. GheSORY, M.D., F.E.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and Slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.1
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger Of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Sc., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet's
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII i—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence .which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley's Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—^Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV!—Trance—Extasis—Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—^Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
SpirUualiet Newspaper Branch Office) 38, British Museum*street, London.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
IN thirty yeats Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo's discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, Under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers iuto the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles In their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these Were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with itd
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestatibns,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two Seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
.Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Nov. 7, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER -WORLt) ORDER:
. Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse Or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the Confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sihnersi
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally. punished; torment fend misery are everlastingly
inseparable from Wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges
" SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at •seance's by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualislh.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
T ECTURES ON NATURAL HISTORY.
JLJ DB. CARTER BLAKE’S private class will
meet in the Galleries of Natural History, British Mu¬
seum, on Thursday, 6th, Saturday, 8th, Thursday, 13th,
and Saturday, 16th November, from two to four p.m.
Tickets 2s. 6d. per lecture, or 7s. Gd. course.—Address
Dr. Carter Blake, 28, East-street, Queen-square, W.O.
*0 E-ENGAGEMENT DESIRED by a
JL\j German Governess (dipldmde). French Music
and all branches of an advanced English education;
£80.—Address Fraulein Mbller, at Dr. Galloway, 17,
Spring-terrace, North Shields.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for 1 Jd.; or six copies post free for Gd.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN¬
GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s ” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
British national associa.
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Oossoniere* Paris.
Now Ready,
ZADKIEL’S ALMANAC for 1880,
Price Sixpence.
Containing:—Voice of the Stars—-Weather Predic¬
tions—A Hieroglyphic, &c.—Zadkiei foretold the Zulu
War and the very day of Isandlana, also the Afghan
War, the severe winter and cold spring.
London : Cousins and Co., 3; York-street, CDvent
Garden.
Price 3s. Gd. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.’*
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the pUbhc
libraries, and to present or send to those Who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much a,bout
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of ’• M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most reflned and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.. .
Introduction: The Philosophy of inspiration* .
L—“01 Beautiful White. Mother Death.".. Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L» V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation Of Shelley to, the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-RiChmohd.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of 2’he Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIIL—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wunnbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
, XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIlI.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
O. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Siance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII. — Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—-The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits-7-Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brotherer
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N. Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses,
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—.
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief itt
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedehborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
O. Hall-W. H. Harrison.
CHAPTER VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
CfiAPTER VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship —Her owd
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. 0. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium^
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Sjpirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardee — Chaseray—
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —•
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation oi Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.,
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions pf Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune,
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism oh Morality-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism-Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—*
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss —Leon Case-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 6s. Gd.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.’’
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—Vi. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
PART Hi
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie's Spirit Song"—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’&udes
psyChologiqties, fonde par Allan KafdeC, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1. franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme,^, Rue Neuve' des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SP I RITUALIST.
Nov. 7, 1879.
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFOKE AND AFTER THE
Christmas iPaddAng,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SAUT,
Prepared from Sound Eipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
. Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Bev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“ I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to he a blessing to the
world.”
Stimulants and insufficient
AMOUNT of EXEECISE frequently DE-
EANGE the LIVEE. ENO’S FEUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WOELD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FEUIT SALT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FEUIT SALT would
not he without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c„ use
EIO’S EMIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FEUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
Fagged, weary, and worn
OUT! !'. Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—-
ENO S FEUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FEUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FEUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Egbert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked “UNO'S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Grown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PEOSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—i. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide."—12. Our Eaven.
—13. Materialistic Eeligion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24, The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—The Wobblejaio Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Becep-
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Bifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug. — 30. The Converted
Carman.  
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.  
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
T) ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
JLU OF SPIEITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.E S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mens. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Kue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
The trapped medium;
OE, THE TWO CLEVEE SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Eeimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.E.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Prcoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
November, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Lectures by Dr. Peebles—A Psychological Study of
Shelley: J. T. Markley—The Spiritual Manifestations
of Two Hundred Years Ago: T. L. Nichols—Joseph
Barker's Testimony—A Letter of Mrs. L. M. Child—
A Ghost Story: Mary S. G. Nichols—What is Spirit¬
ualism? F. C. Cook, Chicago—Popular Errors and
Objections to Spiritualism Explained and Answered—
Notes and Gleanings; Hebrew Ideas of God; Papers
for the Times ; Moral Objections to Spiritualism;
O’er the Silent Eiver; Whittier’s Attitude to Spirit¬
ualism; Almost an Exposure; The Spirit Life; Fort¬
nightly Discussion Meetings. Spiritual Lyrics: Ecce
Homo Ecce Deus.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: HAY Nisbet & Co., 52, Eopework-lane
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The "Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . « 7
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . 7
The Seer. „ III. „ ..76
The Eeformer. „ IV. „ ..76
The Thinker. „ V. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . . . . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life ... .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . .7 6
Harmonial Man; or,-Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . ..60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims ..26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . .30
Morning Lectures 7 6
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIEKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOE TWO GUINEAS PEE MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIEKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOK FIVE SHILLINGS PEE MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIEKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS EAVENSCHOFT, Manager.
Southampton- uildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini*
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFr, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),’’ on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
True and False Personality:—A paper read to the
Theosophical Society, by O. C. Massey   217
The Psychological Society of Great Britain  221
An Utterance. By W. H. Harrison    222
Spiritualism in India:—The Powers of Paul Jopper 224
Clairvoyance   224
Correspondence:—Mr. Fletcher and Dr. Slade—
Spiritualism in the Provinces—Eyeless Mol-
lusca—Form Manifestations  225
The Temple of Dambool    226
A Haunted House. By Fanny Terry  227
Instinct and Prevision. By Henry G. Atkinson,
F.G.S., author of Letters to Miss Martineau ... 227
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood's Rents.
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane. London,
E.C,
