RE0IBXERJ1D 18 1 NEWSPAPER.
jo©S(K^i<
0^ ^^YdSo^OGcldS^
^dis^Kdsi.
dltet mnmd^b' feit^ Spxitttalbm xn (§>xml §nfam»
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : it, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule*
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via,della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazioriale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA; 9x8, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 303.—0tOL. XII.—No. 24.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JUNE 14, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Value of Testimony in Matters Extraordinary. By
Charles Carleton Massey    ...   277
The Idea of Spirits... ... ... ... ... ... •  ... ... 281
Organisation Considered as the Duty of Spiritualists ... 282
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—
Meeting of the Council—The Last Soiree of the Season 283
The Spirituality of Literary Culture. By J. T. Markley,
Author of Studies of Character, and Stray Thought 284
Babyoulture by Professor Huxley  284
Poetry:—Summer Meadows, by J. T. Markley—Songs, by
Ella Dietz... „.  285
Correspondence :—Christian Heinrich Heinecken—Nir¬
vana—Blood-Writing Phenomena ...   285
Human Impersonality. By Epes Sargent  286
The Weighing of Mediums during Manifestations 287
The Ghost of Vasquez  ... 288
A Haunted House Suitable for Investigators  ... 288
Answers to Correspondents 288
ParagraphsAn Amputation Phenomenon, 281; Becog-
nition of the Charitable Work of a Spiritualist, 281 ;
A Spirit Message, 282; Lunacy Law Amendment So¬
ciety, 283 ; A Meeting next Monday, 283 ; A Jesuit’s
Opinion of Spiritualism, 283 ; Scandinavian Mediums,
283 ; Psychography, 283; Glimpses of the World
Unseen, 285; The Mission of Mrs. Wilkes, 286 ; A
Noisy Ghost at Pollokshaws, 286; Spiritualism and
Materialism, 286 ; Ghostly “ Manifestations ” in an
English Village, 287 ; The Action of the Pulse in
Phreno-Mesmeric Experiments  287
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre AksaKof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci„ Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon,M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”]; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling*
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Maitheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United (Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places.
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. — Volumes for
1861 and 1862 wanted, unbound if possible. Volumes for
1863,1872, 1873, 1874, for disposal.—Stainton-Moses, 38, Great
Russell-street, London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Calendar.
JUNE.
Friday, Uth.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
' „ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
C. E. Williams, Medium.
Monday, 17<7t.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Rev. W. Stainton-
Moses on “The Past Work of the
Fortnightly Meetings.
Wednesday, 1977*.—General Purposes Committee, at 7 p.m.
Friday 21sf.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m. Mr. C. E.Williams, Medium.
Tuesday, Ihfh.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.15pm.
„ „ House and Offices Committee, at 6 p.m.
Wednesday 2677*.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 2877*.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Members op Committees.
By a Resolution of the Council, May 11th, the Members of
all Committees were reappointed to serve as before.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
<' For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office days—Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 2 to 4 p.m.
EGLINTON TESTIMONIAL.
Subscriptions for this testimonial may be remitted to any
member of the Committee, to the acting treasurer, Mrs.
Nichols, Aldwyn Tower, Malvern, or to the Hon. Secretary, 32,
Fairfax-road, Finchley-road, London, N.W.
The testimonial will be presented on July 1st at the
Beethoven Rooms, Harley-street, Cavendish-square. Tickets
5s. and 2s. 6d. May be had, with programmes, of any member
of the committee, or the honorary secretary.
Now Ready, Price 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
The Spiritualists’ Quarterly, for April.
CONTENTS:—
Editor’s Address.
«—Ethics of the New Age.
II.—Experiences of Astrology in India,
III. —Mystical Poetry.
IV. —Modern Materialism.
V.—Dante and Beatrice.
VI.—;The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Seance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. 1,—To Paray-le-Monial.
IX.—Psychography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XI.—The Miracle Land.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit'
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, Wi
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
'DLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
.XT SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomena], Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.  
NNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.D. 1860 to 1873),
£110s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type.and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms :—3, Ludgatb Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.OJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on th® minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Batik is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
“  FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
Bedroom to let, furnished, with
use of Sitting Room and Piano, with or without Board,
in the home of an old Spiritualist. Three in family. No other
lodgers. Would suit an elderly person, male or female.—
Address T. W., 21, Wingmore-road, White Hart-lane, Tot¬
tenham.
.<»
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. CaUler, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fftz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridffe-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fltz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jcncken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E‘.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-bulldings, Temple,
London, 15. C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Bpeer, Stanhope Tern pieman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-street, Cneetham, Manchester.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H„ 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfield, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.1C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Bemers-street, W.
Maitland, E., 12, Haymarket, W.
Malthy, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
March. R. A., 14. Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W\, 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W W., 118, Albany-street, Regent's-park, N.W.
Newton, W, 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Strawbndge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W. ’
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock. St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J.P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
W hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veb, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy. v
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie,Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Rassell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D .,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes; Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
M. de Bas&ompierre. 285, ChausseeSt.Pierre,Etterbeck. Brussels.
M. A. .Anthelme I'Titz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bfuxel’es.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, II, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs^CayngaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Atlienee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Granhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
" Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-Jane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad|Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
Tbe only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most.divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. "W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O. ■ '
WOBKS BY THE COTINTESS OF CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his hook on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
<fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF spirit¬
ualism upon the social, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
. E. W. AlLen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems oj the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London:—Simpkin, Marshall <fc Co. 
H~EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Oolby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific, subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., <fce. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
X> RIG ETON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
X-J tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-stroet; and Mr, Boughton, St. George’s-road.
June 14, 1878,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’Sj CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 t,ill 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 O'clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.  
MR. Jfw. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W". FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature. ■
"]V/|’DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
-IvJL At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
(33 years established),
Attends Patients, and may be consulted at his residence daily
from 2 till 5,
10, BERKELEY GARDENS, OAMPDEN HILL, KEN¬
SINGTON.
Private Lessons in the art of Mesmerising. His Pamphlet
on “ Curative Mesmerism,” 7th Edition, price Is.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
IVI'ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
JLvJL and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss ManoeiPs special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
mHE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
A ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Paet I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—H. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Past II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XU. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX. Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.,
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London: 38, Great Russell-street. W. H. Harbison.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
eubjeet. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISE. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O    
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.C.
J[ tA xrf mb xJ ^jinjiludmu*
Volujvie Tweeye. Kumber Twenty'-fou^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 14th, 1878.
THE VALUE OF TESTIMONY IN MATTERS 1
EXTRAORDINARY* ||
BY CHARLES CARLE TON MASSEY. . ffi
The proposition that evidence, to command assent, should | j
be proportioned to the probability or improbability of the ! j
fact to be proved, is constantly appealed to as the rational I
foundation of sceptical or negative judgment. I ask you j
this evening to come to close quarters with it, to consider |
what it means, and whether it is legitimately applied, j
There are perhaps no two words in the language more liable j
to abuse, or more frequently abused, than probability, and j
the word expressing that upon which probability is said to j
be founded, namely, experience. For there is here no ques- i
tion of those definitely-ascertained probabilities which result j
from the computation of known chances, and which are, !
therefore, not matters • of experience at all. It is by j
reference to these, however, that we shall have the prin- j j
ciple in question most clearly before us. Suppose, for ||
example, evidence of such a character and amount that the j I
chance against its being forthcoming for what is not true !|
is as 5 to 1, and that it is given for an event against which I'
the chance is as 10 to 1, the resulting probability is 2 to 1 j<
against the evidence. Now it is said that the inductions j j
from experience afford us a similar, though not equally ! <
definite, measure of proportion between the probability of !!
facts and the value of evidence. j ]
And as to a large class of alleged facts, we are met at the j <
outset of our inquiry by the previous question, whether j!
testimony in relation to them has any value whatever? The j J
probability in favour of testimony, even at its best, it is |1
said, can never equal that which results from the uniform j!
negative experience of mankind. Our faith in testimony ! ]
is based on the same principle of experience, and therefore |'
testimony can never prove a fact which is contrary to a h
wider induction. This is the extreme application of the [ |
principle, as we find it in Hume’s celebrated argument !;
against miracles. It is not quite the same, though practi- | <
cally it has the same effect, as that absolute a priori denial |
of the possibility of the facts attested to which few scientific j
minds will explicitly commit themselves. It does not say |
that our inductions as to what is possible, or in rerum naturd, j
are certain, but that they have a greater force than any
testimony which can be adduced against them, which there¬
fore is not entitled even to consideration.
Now, in the first place, I would invite you to consider when
it can and when it cannot be said with accuracy that an
alleged fact contradicts experience. In one sense, of course,
it cannot be accurately said at all. Your experience that
contact with fire has always burned you remains unchallenged
and uncontradicted by any assertion of mine that on one
occasion or on half-a-dozen occasions it has not burned me.
But experience is a term used loosely to denote our induc¬
tions from experience; and this is the first thing I ask you
to mark. What, again, is a fact in relation to experience?
If you and I have seen the same object, and you describe it
as of one apparent dimension, and I describe it as of another
and vastly different apparent dimension, does my experience
contradict yours ? Not necessarily; for we may have both
described the apparent object abstracted from the conditions
of distance under which we severally saw it. This ten- I
dency to abstract from the context of experience, in other j
words, to ignore conditions, is just what distinguishes the
popular from the scientific conception of a fact. And until
we know all the conditions under which anything is said to
* A Paper read before the Psychological Society of Great Britain on Thursday, last week.
j have occurred, we cannot properly speak of it as opposed to
our own experience. The next remark I have to make is
that, d priori, we do not know which of the circumstances
|| attending even the most familiar facts of experience are
conditions, and which are entirely irrelevant. Transport
yourself to an imagined infancy of experience, and you could
i not predict from the fact that fire had burned you in one
place or time that it would burn you in another, or that it
would burn me. Difference of place, time, or person might,
| for all you could know beforehand, provide entirely new
conditions. Now if it was asserted, as in fact it is asserted
with regard to a large class of alleged phenomena, that
personality, that specialities of human organism do in-
i- troduce new conditions, resulting in these unusual phenomena
! under certain other conditions not scientifically known, this
| would not be and is not to contradict the common experience
which, ex hypothesi, knows nothing of these exceptional per¬
sonalities. Bearing in mind, then, that no experience
| or amount of experience has the least relevance to an
alleged fact except under the exact conditions, inclusive
and exclusive, of its occurrence, and that we cannot say
beforehand what are conditions and what are not, the ex¬
perience argument, in relation to the phenomena in question,
| resolves itself into this : that inasmuch as' the alleged
| personalities which, as the one constant element must be
| regarded as the condition, are exceptional and abnormal,
| therefore their existence is so improbable that testimony
\ cannot prove it. What is this but to say that the abnormal
! can never be proved by testimony ? Nay, more, that testi¬
mony can never make such a provisional and primd facie
case, as to justify a reasonable man in seeking for the higher
evidence of his own experience ; in other words, in investi¬
gating for himself? For such a primd facie case is a
probable case, and here it is said that the balance of pro¬
bability is largely against the fact. I am endeavouring to
get at the precise point in issue; and I say that the man
who exclaims, <{ Objects moving without physical contact!
writing read without eyes ! matter passing through matter !
writing without hands ! these things are opposed to all
human experience !”—is talking wildly and loosely. What,
if he would, condescend to be exact and logical, he really
I means is that it is opposed to a negative induction from the
absence of experience that individuals should exist who can
I provide new conditions of physical Operation. But the
! question is, Is this induction to be regarded as final ? And
[ as we are dealing with the experience school solely with its
» own weapons, let us see what experience says to that. And
i I should have thought that if there was one induction from
| experience historically and scientifically valid it was that
J other inductions from experience—and especially negative
\ inductions—are not final. Our widest inductions are pre¬
cisely those which we make in the infancy of experience and
science. Science advances by the discovery of new condi¬
tions which limit general rules. What was rejected as
abnormal yesterday is found to have a law of its own to-day.
j In a word, if the widest and highest experience of mankind
| can afford us a canon of probability it is this—that testi-
j mony, otherwise sufficient, to the exceptional, the abnormal,
I the strange, and the new, is probably true, and not probably
! false. Set side by side the cases in which new facts of nature
j have been asserted and 'proved to be true with the cases in
| which they have been well asserted and yet disproved, or
| not proved, and who that is acquainted even superficially
II with the history of science and discovery would hesitate to
j say which list affords us the best foundation for an in-
) | due tion ?
I submit, then, as the results of the foregoing considera-
j tions—1. That testimony to the extraordinary, of which the
\ i phenomena referred to may be taken as a type, is falsely
278
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 14, 1878.
opposed to experience. 2. That what it is opposed to is
simply a negative induction from the absence of experience.
3. That a more general experience teaches us that such f,
negative inductions cease to be probably true, so soon as they
are opposed to testimony of a character sufficient to establish
any other fact. j!
It is a great satisfaction to me to be able to state that jj
since the above was written I have found the distinction !<
between positive and negative experience, and the character |
of the inductions from each, very ably and elaborately |;
explained in a long note by Mr. Starkie, in his Treatise on the I]
Law of Evidence. I do not quote this note in extenso, be- l!
cause I hope the distinction is already obvious to ail. Mr. I]
Starkie’s observations refer expressly to Hume’s principle of j <
incredulity; and he shows, as Mr. A. R. Wallace has also |!
shown, that pushed to its logical consequences that principle j ]
would be absolutely fatal to all scientific progress. One h
could almost imagine the following passage to have been J
written in prophetic protest against the appeals to Hume by |(
the sceptics who treat with contumely and derision every <
testimony to the occult phenomena of the present day. |J
^Experience, then, so far from pointing out any unalterable jj
laws of nature, to the exclusion of events or phenomena j<
which have never before been experienced, and which cannot j
be accounted for by the laws already observed, shows the very jj
contrary, and proves that such new events or phenomena Ij
may become the foundation of more enlarged, more general, jj
and therefore more perfect laws.” And in the text Mr. jj
Starkie says—il As experience shows that events frequently j
occur which would antecedently have been considered most I
improbable, and as their improbability usually arises from j
want of a more intimate and correct knowledge of the causes j
which produced them, mere improbability can rarely supply j
a sufficient ground for disbelieving direct and unexception- j
able witnesses of the fact, where there was no room for j
mistake.”
And again, Mr. Hume’s conclusion is highly objection- j
able in a philosophical point of view, inasmuch as it would j
leave phenomena of the most remarkable nature wholly un- j
explained, and would operate to the utter exclusion of all j
inquiry. Estoppels are odious even in judicial investigations, I
because they tend to exclude the truth; in metaphysics they j
are intolerable. So conscious was Mr. Hume himself of the j
weakness of his general and sweeping position, that in the !
second part of his 10th section, he limits his inference in j
these remarkable terms,11 beg the limitations here made may j
be remarked when I say that a miracle can never be proved jj
so as to be the foundation of a system of religion ; for I own
that otherwise there may 'possibly be miracles or violations of l
the usual course of nature of such a kind as to admit of proof j
from human testimony?'
Now this limitation, by which Hume reduced the breadth j
of his original proposition, is simply a too arbitrary applica- j
tion of a principle of criticism of testimony, in itself entirely j
unobjectionable, and upon which, indeed, it is one of the j
objects of this paper most strongly to insist. Obviously, j
what is regarded in the proposition thus limited is not the j
improbability of the fact at all, but the temptation of the j
witnesses to deceive, or their liability to be deceived. That is j
a legitimate and necessary consideration, resulting from our
experienceof human motives and of the effect of prepossessions,
in the estimation of testimony. If the object of the witness, as
of the early Christian, for example, is to persuade the world
of the divine authorship of a religion, that object, and the
heat and zeal with which it would probably be pursued,
might undoubtedly supply a motive, proper to be taken into
account, for statements of miracles performed by the author
of the religion. And so the preconception of His divine
powers would predispose to a facility of accepting appear¬
ances as miraculous, quite inconsistent with the cool and
scientific observation which we desiderate in the witnesses.
These considerations undoubtedly go to weaken the force of
testimony; whether they do so in such a degree as to deprive
it of all value is really a matter of individual opinion, and
certainly, apart from the circumstances of each case, cannot
pretend to the dignity of an universal principle of judgment.
Hume has few greater admirers than myself; but I am j
forced to the conclusion that the celebrated Essay on j
Miracles which he put forth with almost exulting confidence '
is one of the weakest, the most ill considered, and the most
inconsistent pieces of reasoning with which I am acquainted.
It has been completely overthrown by three writers who have
dealt with it, and of whom the later do not appear to have
met with the earlier refutations; by Mr. Starkie, by Mr.
Babbage, in the Ninth Bridgwater Treatise, and by Mr.
A. ft. Wallace, in the introduction to his Miracles and Modern
Spiritualism.
I have endeavoured to point out the fallacy of what
seems to me a false application of the principle that evidence
should be proportioned to probability. I will now attempt
to state, in an abstract form, what I submit is its true
result in our experience of testimony. If it is possible
to assign a ratio of probability to a fact, not being one
subject to exact computation, it is also possible to assign a
similar ratio to the value of evidence, for the value of
evidence is just the probability against its being forthcoming
for that which is not a fact. If it is legitimate to consider
the probability of a fact apart from the evidence for it, so it
is legitimate to consider the general value of a particular
quality and amount of testimony apart from the probability
of any special fact to which it may be applied. No
antecedent preference is due to the one probability over the
other if they are equal, but the result is that precisely in
proportion as both the fact is improbable and the evidence
is probable, you will not get the evidence for the fact, that is
to say, just in that proportion you are unlikely to get it.
And if we find, and find often, evidence which we deem to
be good, for a fact which we deem to be improbable, of one
of two things we may be certain, either we have mis¬
calculated the value of the evidence or the probability of the
fact. Now in relation to facts new to our experience, to
facts of which the proof of their possibility is also the proof
of their existence, which of these alternatives is the most
probable ? Whatever induction experience may afford of
what may be called the abstract value of evidence—that is
without regard to the antecedent probabilities of the fact to
be proved—is positive and affirmative. It is constantly
being verified. It depends on tests and criteria, the efficiency
of which are also being constantly guaranteed by experience.
How stands the case with that other negative induction to
which it is opposed? The probability in its favour is just
the probability that good evidence will not be forthcoming
to contradict it. It is a probability which arises entirely
from the absence of evidence. It is impossible to conceive
more vicious reasoning than that which would make it a
ground of rejecting evidence. It depends on the proposi¬
tion : “If this were true, we should have had the evidence
before”—which amounts to this, as has been pointed out by
Mr. Starkie, and by Mr. A. R. Wallace, in the admirable
introduction to his book, Miracles and Modern Spiritualism,
that no new fact can ever be proved by testimony. And I
cannot conclude this part of the argument better than by
quoting that writer’s neat dilemma in reply to Hume: “ If
the fact were possible, such evidence as we have been con¬
sidering would prove it; if it were not possible, that evidence
would not exist.”
Something remains to be said on the effect of cumulative
evidence. The late Mr. Babbage, in the Ninth Bridgwater
Treatise, has worked out an elaborate mathematical refuta¬
tion of Hume’s principle. And he concludes that if any
definite measure of improbability, however large, be adopted,
that is to say, if the improbability be short of infinite (and
no one has ever contended that it is this—or, in other words,
that the fact is impossible), a miracle, so called, can be
proved by testimony. Taking m as the measure of impro¬
bability, he says, “ It follows, therefore, that however large
m may be, however great the quantity of experience against
the occurrence of a miracle (provided only that there are
persons whose statements are more frequently correct than
incorrect, and who give their testimony in favour of it
without collusion), a certain number, n, can always be found,
so that it shall be a greater improbability that their unani¬
mous statement shall be a falsehood than that the miracle
shall have occurred.” Taking the case of only six witnesses
who will speak the truth, and are not themselves deceived in
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, Mr. Babbage deduces
the result that the improbability of their independent con¬
currence in testifying to what is not a fact is five times as
June 14, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
279
great as an assumed improbability of two hundred thousand
millions to one against the miracle which they are supposed
to attest, or it is one billion to that number. And it hardly
needs demonstration that the same result is arrived at by
increasing the number of witnesses in proportion to any
deduction from the value of the individual testimony of
each. To this scientific authority I will add a legal one to
the same effect. “ It would,” says Mr. Starkie, in
his treatise on the Law of 'Evidence, a theoretically
speaking, be improper to omit to observe that the
weight and force of the united testimony of numbers
upon abstract mathematical principles, increases in a higher
ratio than that of the mere number of such witnesses. Upon
these principles, if definite degrees of probability could be
assigned to the testimony of each witness, the resulting
probability in favour of their united testimony would be
obtained not by the mere addition of the numbers expressing
the several probabilities, but by a process of multiplication.”
Now it is obvious that in applying these principles to a class
of alleged facts denied on the ground of antecedent impro¬
bability, we ought'to take, in computing the cumulative
force of testimony, not simply the testimony which this
or that fact of the class can adduce, but all the testimony ,
which exists for all similar alleged facts comprised in the
class. Let M represent the class, comprising under it ab cd,
particular alleged instances. We may state the result
in either one or two ways. Either we may oppose the im¬
probability of (class) M to the cumulative evidence oiabcd,
taken together; or, taking a by itself, we may say that the
improbability against a is the improbability of M, the class,
minus the probability resulting from the cumulative testi¬
mony in favour of b, c, and d, taken together. Now to apply
the foregoing considerations to cases of actual occurrence.
I could not go into details here without protracting this
paper beyond reasonable limits, but the cases I shall take
are already familiar to many in this room, and as they are
on record, with the utmost particularity of description,
others may be referred to the printed accounts. I select
then a number of testimonies to distinct facts of the same
class, namely, of physical effects produced by means un¬
known to science, and each depending on the introduction
of new physical conditions by special human organisms,
which, as before stated, and not any particular effect,
is the fact really, if at all, opposed to experience.
Let me again request you to keep this clearly in
mind. If I say that an effect depends upon the powers of a
certain person, your experience is evidently not opposed to
the effect except so far as it is opposed to the existence
of such powers in members of the human race. Your
experience of the uniform course of physical nature is
wholly and absolutely irrelevant. Nobody has ever asserted
that these things would occur in your presence alone. If you
are to bring the experience argument to bear at all, it must
be in denying the alleged conditions of their occurrence—
the chief of these conditions, in this case, relating to the
personality of individuals. That premised, the several alleged
facts, I take, belong to the same class—namely, those that
depend on the presence of persons reputed to be 'psychics, or
mediums. The first is the experiment recorded in the April
number of the Quarterly Journal of Science of Professor Zoll-
ner and other German scientists with Dr. Slade. In this, as
in the other cases to be presently mentioned, I have taken
the testimony of well-known men of scientific eminence,
because although their veracity may not be worth more than
that of other witnesses to these facts, it may be called a
known quantity. The improbability of Zollner’s lying would,
I imagine, be admitted to exceed Mr. Babbage’s 100 to 1.
And so also of the others to be named. But how are we to
assign a value to the improbability of his being deceived ?
Now here, I must remind you, the improbability of the fact
attested is wholly beside the question. That is a matter to
he taken into calculation subsequently. For the present
purpose the probability of his being deceived or mistaken is
just what it would have been if he was performing the most
ordinary experiment in the world, under the same conditions
of observation, and with, of course, the same suppositions of a
motive and design to deceive him. When we have got
this value, then we will set off against it the improbability
of the fact. But to consider the latter at present would be
| just as if, having to subtract an unknown quantity, x, from
a given number, say 10, we began by subtracting 10 from
| x, and so made the problem 10—{x—10) instead of 10—x, an
algebraical begging of the question. Regarding, then, the
experiment without this prejudice, I should say no numeral
would be considered quite high enough to express the im¬
probability of Zollner’s being deceived. Add to this, the
| improbability of his coadjutors also being deceived. But
whatever value we determine upon, is it to be opposed by itself
to the improbability of the fact, which would then be proper to
be considered ? No; for look at the next case of the same class.
That shall be the electrical test experiment of Mr. Crookes
| with Mrs. Fay, at his own house, assisted by several Fellows
| of the Royal Society, as well as by our president, Mr. Serjeant
Cox, who all agreed in the conclusive nature of the experi-
| ment. Lying again is out of the question, practically. Decep¬
tion by the medium ? Inaccuracy of observation ? A scientific
| test, devised by the most competent experts, the nature of
! it not explained to the medium till she, who may almost be
| assumed to be a scientifically ignorant young woman, is in
the house (that of Mr. Crookes), the apparatus unknown to
her, and its working watched and recorded from minute to
minute. The results beyond all explicable power of pro¬
duction even had the medium been herself an accomplished
electrician, and intimately versed with the apparatus. In
i calculating probabilities, the same observations are applicable
[ here as to the case of Professor Zollner. But the im-
i probability of deception here must be added, in the ratio
11 pointed out by Mr. Babbage and Mr. Starkie, to that of the
j I former case. Take yet another, and here again one at least
) | of the witnesses is a man of high scientific standing—Lord
| Lindsay, who has recently been elected on the Council of
| the Royal Society. He describes the levitation of Mr. Daniel
Home and his floating in and out of a window seventy feet
from the ground by bright moonlight. I will read the
account in Lord Lindsay’s own words:—
I I was sitting with Mr. Home, and Lord Adare, and a cousin of his.
I During the sitting Mr. Home went into a trance, and in that state was
! carried out of the window in the room next to where we were, and was
I i brought in at our window. The distance between the windows was
II about 7 feet 6 inches, and there was not the slightest foothold between
j! them, nor was there more than a 12-inch projection to each window,
) | which served as a ledge to put flowers on.
I j We heard the window in the next room lifted up, and almost immedi*
|! ately after we saw Home floating in the air outside our window.
II The moon was shining full into the room; my back was to the light,
I j and I saw the shadow on the wall of the window-sill, and Home’s feet
j I about six inches above it. He remained in this position for a few
II seconds, then raised the window and glided into the room, feet foremost,
[ | and sat down.
i Lord Adare then went into the next room to look at the window from
! which he had been carried. It was raised about 18 inches, and he
j expressed his wonder how Mr. Home had been taken through so narrow
| an aperture.
i Home said, still entranced, “ I will show you,” and then with his back
) i to the window he leaned back, and was shot out of the aperture, head
j I first, with the body rigid, and then returned quite quietly,
jj The window is about 70 feet from the ground. I very much doubt
) | whether any skilful tightrope dancer would like to attempt a feat of this
I i description, where the only means of crossing would be by a perilous
j I leap, or being borne across in such a manner as I have described,
| placing the question of the light aside. Lindsay.
| July 14th, 1871.
j I will call one other witness before you, likewise of dis-
| tinguished scientific position and attainments, begging you
| to remember that these are only specimen cases. It is
| Dr. Lockhart Robertson, one of Her Majesty’s Commis-
| sioners in Lunacy. . Among other phenomena which took
! place in his own house, in the presence of himself and his
| own friends, the medium being a Mr. Squire, Dr. Robert-
| son describes the following:—“A heavy circular chair,
j made of birch and strongly constructed, was lifted a
| somersault in the air and thrown on the bed, the left hand
j only of Mr. Squire being held on the surface, his other
(j hand held, and his legs being tied to the chair on which
jj he sat. The table was afterwards twice lifted on to the
jj head of the writer and of Mr. Squire At the
j writer’s request this table was afterwards smashed and
j broken, and one fragment thrown across the room, the
j | table at the time being held by the writer and Mr. Squire,
jj This occurred in half a minute. The writer has since
j vainly endeavoured with all his strength to break one of
the remaining legs. The one broken was rent across the
280
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 14, 1878.
grain of the wood.” Dr. Robertson states that all this
took place in the dark, but probably, looking at the nature
of the phenomena and the conditions described, most
candid persons would be of the opinion he concludes by
expressing “ that fraud was utterly and entirely impos¬
sible and impracticable.” I will add just one other testi¬
mony of Lord Lindsay:—“ A friend of mine was very
anxious to find the will of his grandmother, who had been
dead forty years, but could not even find the certificate of
her death. I went with him to the Marshall’s, and we
had a stance; we sat at a table, and soon the raps came.
• My friend asked his questions mentally ; he went over the
alphabet himself, or sometimes I did so, not knowing the
question. We were told the will had been drawn by a
man named Walker, who lived in Whitechapel; the name
of the street and the number of the house were given. We
went to Whitechapel, found the man, and subsequently,
through his aid, obtained a copy of the draft. He was
quite unknown to us, and had not always lived in that
locality, for he had seen better days. The medium could
not possibly have known anything about the matter, and
even if she had, her knowledge would have been"*of no
avail, as all the questions were mental ones.”
If you would be rational, do not laugh at these cases one
by one, but study the evidence for each of them separately,
and then appreciate their cumulative force, as belonging to
the same class. Then, if you please, set off the improba¬
bility arising from your own and others’ ignorance. I don’t
know if you will estimate that at Babbage’s two hundred
thousand millions, but if so, you are bound to show—mind,
once more, without any reference, express or tacit, to the
improbability of the facts—why the evidence should be
estimated at less than Babbage’s billion, or rather, since
we have here more than six witnesses whose testimony for
any ordinary fact would have so great a value, at this billion
multiplied in a greater ratio than my small mathematical
powers could easily calculate.
But, in fact, I place the argument far higher than either Mr.
Starkie or Mr. Babbage, though I believe I am in accord with
Mr. Wallace. Both the former assumed that there is an
antecedent improbability to be deducted from the value of the
positive testimony. I deny that altogether. I say that an
improbability arising from want of evidence—which is the
nature of these negative inductions—is just the impro¬
bability that evidence will be forthcoming. When you
have got the evidence the improbability vanishes just
in proportion to the value of the . evidence per se.
What you mean by the improbability of a fact beyond ex¬
perience is that it is probably impossible, or not in rerum
naturd. What conceivably legitimate measure of this pro¬
bability can you adopt than that which also determines the
relation between evidence and fact? The'fallacy consists in
assuming any numerical value whatever for such antecedent
improbabilities apart from this relation. Say that the best
single human testimony has a value of 100 to 1. Now
to-day, because I have never had that evidence, I say the
probability against the fact is represented in my mind as
1,000 to 1. To-morrow I get the evidence of that intrinsic
value of 100 to 1, and I say, “Oh, but the adverse proba¬
bility is 1,000 to 1, and the value of this evidence must be
reduced accordingly.” This surely is unreasonable. But
I may quite logically say, “ Inasmuch as this 100 to 1 evi¬
dence has never been forthcoming, it raises in my mind
a presumption worth 1,000 to 1 that such evidence never
will be forthcoming.” If the evidence arrives after all,
there is no presumption against its truth. We have a right
to our surprise, but not to our incredulity. Because there
was no evidence, we thought there was no fact. We had a
right to think so. But the moment we have evidence we
are in the region of evidence whose intrinsic value we have
to estimate, all presumptions being henceforth merely im¬
pertinent. The case is, of course, very different when we
are dealing with actual, ascertainable probabilities, as the
probability of a given ball being drawn by chance from a
hundred others. Then the chance being real, and not merely
supposititious, we properly set it off against the evidence.
But in the other case the evidence destroys the supposition,
precisely in proportion to its own intrinsic value.
But even allowing the presumption to co-exist with the
ij evidence, it has appeared that if no other evidence of similar
| facts had existed from the beginning of recorded time to the
| present besides these three cases I have mentioned, the pro-
1 bability in their favour would still be greater than the pro¬
bability against them. You are instinctively repelled by
| this statement; so am 1. We all feel that there must be
! something wrong somewhere. And so there is. It is not that
| the hypothesis is an impossible one. Mr. Babbage has made
| a very ingenious supposition. He has conceived the course
of nature to be like a machine constructed on the principle of
| his own calculating engine. A thousand revolutions of the
| wheel shall bring up only square numbers, but the machine
| shall be constructed so that the thousand and first
shall show a cube number—a “ miracle.” We can con¬
ceive that certainly. And so a man might be born to-day
who should be the first of mankind born with these abnormal
I powers we have been considering. But all observed analogies
| protest against this supposition of a purely exceptional fact,
|5 even though we may conceive such a fact to be subsumed
| under a higher law of extremely rare application. If we
| have once proved the fact under its own conditions, it is in
| the highest degree probable that the law of its occurrence is
I in .constant operation. To suppose that it is not is to en-
| counter a new improbability, and it is this new improbability
j which repelled us just now in the supposition that no other
I similar cases had existed in human experience. We should
I expect to find them in every age. See now how we have
| shifted the onus of improbability. The proved case in the
| present makes such cases in the past highly probable; in
other words, experience cannot have been truly opposed to
that which has just been proved on the assumption that
experience is opposed to it. And what do we find in fact ?
Why, that records of occult phenomena, and especially of
such as occur through the mediation of particular individuals,
form an appreciable part of the literature of every generation
| of men since the invention of printing, and anterior to that
we have, besides the manuscript accounts of antiquity, the
universal belief of mankind, which must presumably have
rested on experience. Addison, indeed, speaks of the
u general testimony of mankind ” in favour of those facts to
which 18 th century scepticism—a product of intellectual
causes which have been traced by Mr. Lecky—has unwar¬
rantably opposed that very general testimony. I have said
nothing of the innumerable mob of witnesses in the present
time, and in almost every country in the world, to whose
i separate and individual testimony we are unable to assign
a positive value. I have said nothing even of that respect¬
able array of known and in various ways distinguished
witnesses whom we have still among us, or who have recently
deceased. I have said nothing of the admission of experts
in the art of conjuring-—that art to which such illimitable
powers are ascribed by the credulity of the incredulous—of
the celebrated conjurer Houdin, of the celebrated conjurer
Bellachini, of the celebrated conjurer John Nevil Maskelyne,
the latter of whom I publicly challenged in the Examiner
newspaper to explain away, if he could, certain printed and
published admissions of his own to the existence of pheno¬
mena of this class not produced by trickery.* I am not
attempting the prodigious task of estimating in figures the
cumulative evidence for the phenomena called Spiritualistic,
a Pelion piled upon an Ossa of testimony, and which
would crush any logical resistance, but not the illogical
power of that against which, it is said, the very gods strive
vainly. I charge this stupidity with gross ignorance of the
principles upon which evidence should be estimated. And
I have traced this ignorance to four fallacies : First, to the
confusion of the positive affirmative induction which we
legitimately draw of the course of nature under ordinary
conditions of observation, with the negative induction from
inexperience, of the non-existence of other conditions.
Secondly, to the assumption that this inexperience, in fact,
exists, as the ground even of this negative, far more limited,
and far less valid induction, an assumption which is made
by an arbitrary rejection of historic evidence. Thirdly, to
the assumption that antecedent Improbability thus., arising
* Notice of the terms of the above reference to Mr. Maskelyne was sent to the latter, with
a card of admission to hear the paper read, available for Maskelyne himself, or for any
j) j friend by whom he might wish to be represented, and who might make any statement by
' ‘ permission of the chairman.
June 14, 1878,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
281
can co-exist with testimony of a certain assignable value, j
Fourthly, to neglecting to estimate the cumidative force of |
testimony. j
That these fallacies are, nevertheless, sanctioned by j j
common consent, and by authority, need not surprise us. I j
It is a popular error that priests have been the greatest jj
enemies to science. It has been the “common sense” of each j j
generation, supported and sanctioned by the highest scientific | .
authorities of the day, that has always been found opposed j i
to the reception of evidence conflicting with presumptions j
which have their origin in ignorance. It was not a Churchman, j
but a very learned professor, notorious for his anti-religious j
tendencies, who refused to look through Galileo’s telescope, j
Was it religious persecution or popular and scientific ridicule j
that Harvey, Jenner, Franklin, Young, Stephenson, Arago, j
and Gregory, encountered for their respective discoveries i
and ideas ? It is significant that in an American book, called j
the Warfare of Science, that was republished in England i
last year under the avowed patronage of Professor Tyndall, I
there is much that is well and eloquently told of the wrongs j
of science at the hands of religious bigotry, but not one I
word of the constant and determined obstruction of scientific j
men. j
To avoid misapprehension I wish to add one remark, j
In speaking of the abstract value of testimony I have j
not for a moment meant to imply that testimony, or j
evidence generally, can be appreciated without reference |
to the nature of the fact attested. It is only the assumed |
improbability of the fact which I have regarded as |
a separable factor. But in accounts of the extra- j
ordinary these are undoubtedly elements of fallacy which only j j
a very inexperienced judge of testimony would ignore. For !
instance, we may almost appropriate a special set of motives j
to such narrations. The mere vanity of producing an im- j
pression of wonder, or of making out an unanswerable case, is j
responsible for many a false or highly coloured account, j
There is the temptation to support a hasty exaggeration by a j
specific falsehood, or by a suppression of truth. Then, again, !
the fact may be of such a nature that the whole value jj
of the testimony depends on minuteness and accuracy j
of observation. Regard to time prevents my doing j
more than advert to these considerations. Only to each j
case as it arises can their proper weight be assigned. Un- j
fortunately there is assigned to them an enormously j
exaggerated weight in general, without reference to par- i
ticular cases at all, and this because it is assumed to be j
more probable that the evidence is thus vitiated than that j
the facts attested are true. No doubt the presumption that j
evidence is not good is a far more rational presumption than j
that evidence, however good, is false. And, moreover, it is I
one which can be brought to the test of examination, j
whereas the latter cannot. We can show whether evidence I
does or does not come up to a certain standard, and if it j
does the presumption is falsified ; but to the man who says, j
“ I won’t listen, and I don’t care how good your evidence I
may be,” we can have nothing further to say.
In conclusion, I will lay down the following proposition j
broadly. A negative probability, by which I mean an I
inference of non-existence from the absence of evidence, j
cannot in the least affect the value of positive evidence of j
existence. It is only provisional. It vanishes at the touch j
of sufficient evidence; and sufficient evidence I define, for j
this purpose, to be evidence which would establish a fact— j
having strict regard to the nature of the fact—as to which j
there was no antecedent presumption or probability for or j
against. Would I therefore accept the statement of a casual j
stranger as to some unheard of marvel with the same facility |
that I would accept his statement as to its having rained j
somewhere yesterday—a fact which may be said to answer j
the description of having no antecedent presumption either j
way? Certainly not, for I have said that the nature of the j
fact is to be regarded, not as probable or improbable, but as j
communicating elements of fallacy to testimony. Thus j
understood, I say that the evidence is our whole concern, j
and that if it stood every test and every criticism which ex- j
perience could suggest, I would accept on the strength of it i
any marvel in the Arabian Nights or Gulliver's Travels. And j
I submit that the man who would not is the creature of pre- j
judice and the victim of prepossessions. * ‘
THE IDEA OF SPIRITS.
The idea that the spirits in heaven are interested in those here on
earth has somehow found a sure lodgment in the human mind. The
great poets, whose genius is so near akin to the inspirations of the
prophets and the apostles, have all along held to this glowing thought.
We recall that sweetest verse of Spenser:—
“ How oft do they their silver bowers leave,
To come to succour us that succour want;
How oft do they with golden pinions cleave
The flitting skies, like flying pursuivant,
Against foul flends-to aid us militant.
They for us fight, they watch and duly ward,
And their bright squadrons round about us plant,
And all for love, and nothing for reward.”
And those more stately lines of Milton :—
“ Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth
Unseen, both when we wake and when we sleep.”
They are unseen, for these eyes of ours are only for material objects.
But this presence is not the less real, no less real than God’s own
presence, than the spirit’s own influence which you and I have never
seen, but the power of which we never doubt. This partition wall
which separates the two worlds is very thin ; and what is this partition
wall except this veil of flesh, which holds our spirits only for a time,
and which is so soon to be rent, when our spirits shall go forth to
mingle in the innumerable throng which people the air around us 1
And is this veil, which now holds our gaze, impenetrable to them ?
It is not wholly so, even to us ! Though now we are, at so many
points, shut in from one another by material walls, though so much
of our communication with one another is restricted to these channels
of sense—to speech, and touch, and sight, and hearing—yet it is not
altogether so. Our minds hold communication with each other through
viewless avenues, and we impress our thought upon another, some¬
times with mightiest power, when every channel of sense is closed.
It is a thin partition which separates us, our spirits, from another,
even when we are both here in the flesh. How much thinner this
partition to that one who has broken through the outer wall, and is
free from these physical laws which surround us ! Such beings may
easily hear our voice of praise and prayer which we from this side lift
to God. Such beings may easily look through and witness to our trials
and struggles, and may communicate to us of their strength and
courage.—The Rev. George B. Spaulding.
When an author or a “spirit guide’’ defines the Deity and the
principles of construction of the universe, either the definer is in the
position of a flea which believes it can expound the philosophy of Kant,
or the Almighty is comprised within insignificant limits. When a mortal
sends us communications for publication telling us all about the nature
of God and His angels, we consider the value of the manuscript as small
as the self-confidence of the sender is large. Was it not Dickens who
said that street-preachers talked as if they were as familiar with the
will and thoughts of the Almighty as they were with their own greasy
gloves ?
An Amputation Phenomenon.—Mr. Van Dorn complained on Sunday
that it seemed to him that something was wrapped tightly about the
thumb on the arm which was removed by amputation on Saturday, and
on examining the arm, which had been laid by Dr. Stannard on a board
in the rear room of the store, it was found that a thread had accidentally
become entangled about the thumb, and that in the swelling of the
thumb the thread had made a crease around it. The thread was removed,
and Mr. Yan Dorn, not knowing that the string had been around the
thumb, said that it felt much better. Soon after, Dr. Stannard made
an experiment to xurther test the curious phenomenon. He tied the
thumb and little finger firmly together, and laid a hatchet on the hand.
Van Dorn soon began to complain of pain in the hand, and finally that
the thumb and little finger were tied together. The string was removed,
and the hand straightened out again, when the patient, with no know¬
ledge of what had been done, said that the arm felt better than it had
at any time since the amputation had taken place. The above are the
facts of the case, upon which we have no theory to advance.— Chagrin
Falls (O.) Exponent.
Recognition of the Charitable Work of a Spiritualist.-—
L’'entente cordiale really means something more than Prince of Wales’s
speeches, dinners, and exhibitions. Our amiable neighbours have not
only taken to applauding our politics, trying to speak our language, and
to analysing and imitating, if not to liking, our plum-pudding, but are
actually holding “ May meetings ” and giving us couronnes civiques for
our good doings. The Society Nationale d'Encouragement de Bien held
its anniversary last week, and after awarding gold medals for poetry,
gold medals for prose, rewards for twenty-two books utiles d la propa¬
gation des bonnes mceurs, and decorations to domestics for supporting
their broken-down old masters, to orphans for acting as heads of
families, to poor women doing the nursing of the aged, sick, and imbe¬
ciles, to sons for paying the debts of their fathers, to soldiers on service
for putting by their sous de poche to send to their infirm parents,
to ladies for having cut the telegraph wires in Prussian occupation and
pocketed their military despatches, and to gentlemen for having got
across Africa, for having put the Japanese up to the French system of
farming, and for having imbibed so much of the principles of humanity
as to become the friends of Beranger, Lamartine, Gautier, and Raspail—
have crowned with their greenest laurels one of our countrywomen, Mdme.
Georgina Weldon, for having founded an orphanage where she rears a
large number of children at her own expense. After all, would it not
be as well to return the compliment by sending every now and then a
batch of the little vagabonds to help fill up the gaps in the French
census.—Ball Mall Gazettes
282
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 14, 1878.
ORGANISATION CONSIDERED AS THE DUTY OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The lower nations are in the scale of existence, the greater
. is their incapacity for efficient organisation. Thus savages and
semi-civilised peoples, like the ancient Jews, usually have a
tyrant to rule over them—a man who is imperfectly kept in
check because of their inability to organise with sufficient
efficiency to maintain their individual rights. When the
despotic ruler of such primitive nations becomes so trouble¬
some as to be unbearable, he is disposed of by insurrection
or assassination, but another tyrant is set up in his place, the
multitude not having grown to that altitude which enables
them to construct or maintain a free government. Highly
cultured people, on the other hand, are good organisers. This
may be seen clearly in ascendant political circles in England;
and all those nations which possess most liberty, owe their
position to an efficient system of representative government,
by means of which they elect or remove their own rulers,
instead of bowing down to an irresponsible monarch, who
tries to break up all attempts at union and self-government
among his subjects. Thus is the general principal estab¬
lished, that when people are so mentally constituted that
they cannot organise efficiently, are so at variance with each
other that they cannot unite, are so unruly that each man
will not, for the general good, yield one jot of his desire to have
his own way, such an agglomeration of individuals is of a
lower type than a multitude of men and women belonging to
a movement which is competent to establish law and order
in its own ranks, and thereby to take a higher position in
the world.
For the above reasons those who promote organisation
promote the public interests of Spiritualism, and those who
do not do so, lower the general standard of the movement.
Thus this question is not one of the personal liking or dis¬
liking of individuals to combination, but it is a question of
the performance or non-performance of a duty, of the in¬
fliction of an injury or the conferring a benefit. The question
at issue is, whether History shall or shall not chronicle—
“ The Spiritualists of 1878 belonged to an uncultured phase
of society, not yet developed to the orderly stage, conse- |
quently they were not competent to organise efficiently, and
because of their disintegration were unable to take a strong
position in the comnmnity.,,
In the days of old, organisations have been used for bad
purposes. So have steam-engines when used in unjustifiable j
naval warfare. An organisation, like a steam-engine, merely
gives power to its possessor; the good or bad use of that |
power depends upon those who control it, not upon the thing
itself. Just as steam-engines can now be made and used
with safety, so can organisations now be kept well under
the control of those who construct them. At the present day, |
if a man does not approve the work done by his organisation, j
he leaves it, and ceases to pay his subscriptions; in the days
of old, if he left his organisation—the Church, of which he
was a compulsory member—he was branded as a heretic, and |
roasted or made otherwise uncomfortable. Thus there is an |
essential difference between organisations constructed before !
men understood the principles of self-government and those
constructed now.
As savage and primitive people cannot construct steam- j.
engines, and are afraid of them until they become familiar,
so unprogressed people cannot organise with efficiency, and
are afraid of organised powers. The human mind must grow
till it can construct and govern such powers without fear,
and incapacity so to do betokens a lower stage of develop- I
ment. A good organisation is a colleague and not a master.
These remarks apply to all 'organisations, and not to one in j
particular. Furthermore, if in any organisation a few men j
make themselves discordant, jarring elements, they should I
see that it is better they should form another of their own,
wherein they can pass lives of harmony, rather than throw
a working machine out of gear in their attempt to get their |
own way, to the discomfort of themselves and everybody else. |
Thus may all varieties of opinion be harmoniously represented j
and strife avoided.
The quality of an organisation depends upon the quality of j
its managers; if these have outgrown the elemental stage, \
j* and deal with great principles to the exclusion of per-
| sonalities and contention, work can be done which an inferior
| organisation cannot touch. When orderly and contentious
! individuals are mixed in an organisation, the former have a
j tendency to withdraw from a sphere to which they are
i [ foreign; but, sometimes, as an act of painful self-sacrifice,
| remain in contact with the atmosphere of strife to promote
| the public welfare. They follow the path of duty, instead
I of the path of inclination.
i ( Descending now from general principles, which are true
and unalterable, we instance an attempt to put them into
11 practice. Whenever principles have to be carried out,
j human imperfections creep into the work, so reasonable
| approximation to the ideal is all that can be expected.
What has our solitary large Spiritualistic organisation,
established in the face of every kind of opposition, done
I within a few short years ?
1. It has demonstrated that all Spiritualists do not belong
to that undeveloped stage of being marked by incapacity to
organise efficiently. .
2. It has done its best to carry out ihe principle of friendly
I union among Spiritualists, interfering with the liberty of
conscience of nobody, and performing work respecting the
| utility of which all are agreed. The simple basis of union
| is acknowledgment of the established facts of Spiritualism ;
| any attempt to coalesce on religious grounds would, of
course, be the signal for dissension, and the splitting up into
innumerable sects.
3. It has rendered tyrannical leadership impossible, by
substituting temporarily elected representatives for self-
appointed masters.
4. It has further increased freedom among Spiritualists, by
giving all its members a power of control of the public affairs
of Spiritualism, and placing the expenditure of their own
funds in their own hands, whereby the maximum amount of
benefit is gained from the minimum expenditure of means.
Thus is economy promoted.
5. It has established the finest library in the world of
books relating to Modern Spiritualism, and this library being
public and not private property, Spiritualists at large cannot
be deprived of its use. It is a centre for the collection of
psychological books from all parts of the world.
6. By establishing systematic original research, it has
I already given new knowledge to the world, in such a way as
j to raise the prestige of British Spiritualism all the world
J over.
7. By organisation Spiritualists ascertain the capacity of
j each other for public work, so as to be able to put the right
| man in the right place in times of difficulty and danger.
Without this particular knowledge, and acting upon general
I knowledge only, there was, before the period of organisation,
| great possibility of putting the wrong man in responsible
| positions.
In short, organisation means power, order, law, reputation,
I and freedom; disorganisation means weakness and incapacity.
Hence this question of organisation or disorganisation is a
question of personal duty respecting which every Spiritualist
is obliged to take up a definite position, and according to the
position he takes, so does he of necessity weaken or strengthen
the movement. By means of original experimental research,
| ten times more might have been done for Spiritualism than
has been done under difficulties, had all Spiritualists grown
! to that stage at which alone men can organise with efficiency.
The last number of The Truthseeker (Trubner and Co.) contains an
able article by Mrs. Lowe on the “ Lunacy Laws, and the Work of the
late Parliamentary Committee in relation thereto.” Much matter-of-
fact information about abuses is given, and the cases ought to be autho¬
ritatively investigated.
A Spirit Message—The following communication was recently
given to Mrs. Makdougall Gregory :—“ Oh, beloved mother, rejoice
with me, for I am very happy, having lately passed into a higher
sphere of being. The chief teachings of this sphere are that all things
are intermediate; God alone is first and last, and creation moves in
concentric circles within his open words. The first life of spirits in
the spheres is that of preparation; in natural bodies on earth it is
probation, and this latter state is everlasting, but not as a punishment,
j which I once thought it was. No 1 it is a blessed state, for you feel
] yourself enzoned in God’s love, which burns up all that is evil in your
| nature, at the same time filling you with holiness and bliss. Father
■ sends his love.”
June 14, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
283
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday evening, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council
of the British National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander
Calder, president, occupied the chair. The other members present were
Mr. C. C. Massey, Dr. Stanhope T. Speer, the Rev. W. Stainton-
Moses, Mr. March, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Fitz¬
Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, the Rev. W. W. Newbould, Mr. Cornelius
Pearson, Mr. Withall, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mrs. Lowe,
Mr. E. T. Bennett, Miss Houghton, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. Reimers,
and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Mr. Alexander Calder was unanimously re-elected President of the
Association with acclamation. He briefly returned thanks, saying that
the position was one of considerable responsibility.
Three new ordinary members were elected, one of whom was Mr. Ch.
Cassal, LL.D., Professor of French in University College, London,
Examiner at the University of London, Royal Academy, Woolwich,
Indian Civil Service, &c., &c.; and two honorary members. There was
one resignation.
The President read the repprt of the Finance Committee, which set
forth that the balance in hand was IS115 16s. Id.; it recommended
payments to the extent of £29 17s. 8d., and estimated the outstanding
liabilities of the Association at £5.
After the reading of an application, it was resolved that the usual
notices of forthcoming business of the Association be furnished to a
paper represented by Mr. Blyton.
Dr. Carter Blake sent in a respectful resignation of his seat on the
Council, to which he had been recently elected. Captain Rolleston
resigned, on the ground that most of his time was spent abroad.
The vice-presidents of the Association, and the members of com¬
mittees, were then unanimously re-elected, also the treasurer and auditor.
The question of engaging one or more mediums at a regular salary,
raised by the president, was referred to the <Stfance_Committee, important
legal and other points being involved.
On the recommendation of the General Purposes Committee, it was
resolved that new members who join at £2 2s. per annum after July
1st shall be required to pay £1 Is. only for the current half-year.
The Soiree Committee reported a balance of profit on soirees of
£6 13s. l£d., which it was resolved to expend in carpeting one of the
smaller rooms.
A vote of thanks was given to the Misses Withall for their attention
to the musical arrangements at the soirees.
It was then resolved:—“That the General Purposes Committee be
instructed to inquire into and report to the Council upon the working
and tendency of the Lunacy Laws in relation to Spiritualism, having
especial regard to the Report of the Select Committee of the House of
Commons, and to any cases in their judgment well authenticated which
may be brought to their notice.”
The following notices of motion were then given :—
1. Hy Mrs. Lowe.—“That in future the rooms of the British National
Association of Spiritualists be closed on national holidays until further
orders.”
2. By Mr. E. T. Bennett.—“ That it he considered a breach of privilege on
the part of any member of the Association to make public criticisms on the
proceedings of its committees, and on the action of individual members on
those committees, except as far as they are brought before the Council by
their own reports or otherwise.”
3. By Mr. A. Joy.—“ That it is the opinion of the Council that when a
member has been proposed for election on the Council at the annual general
meeting, it is competent for him to withdraw his name before the scrutiny,
even though he shall have previously consented to its being proposed ; and
that when the scrutineers have official knowledge of the withdrawal, they
ought not to take that name into consideration at all, but should make up the
required number without it (that is, of course, supposing there are enough
candidates on the authorised list).”
4. “ That no payments on account of services rendered after this date-, in
any way to the Association, be in future made, directly or indirectly, to The
Spiritualist newspaper so long as its editor and proprietor continues to be a
member of the Council.”
5. “ That it is inexpedient that the proceedings of committees appointed
by the Council be open for the inspection of any person not a member of the
Council.”
6. “ That those members of Council who have not paid the subscription
for the current year should be struck off the list of the Council.”
7. By Mr. W. H. Harrison.—“ That the side on which each member of
Council votes at all divisions at Council meetings be recorded, and published
in the proceedings of the Association.”
8. “ That the side on which each member of a committee votes at every
division of a committee be recorded in the minutes; that the minutes of all
committee meetings be open to inspection for public and other purposes by
any member of the Association on demand; and that the votes at divisions of
committees shall be published in the proceedings of the Association when¬
ever, at the discretion of the chairman of the committee, they are deemed to
bo of sufficient public importance.”
9. “ That a Stock Account of the property belonging to the Association be
kept and presented monthly to the Finance Oommitttee. That it shall show
all changes in the stock during each month, and the causbs thereof. That the
Finance Committee shall report monthly to the Council the value of the stock
belonging to the Association.”
THE LAST SOIREE OF THE SEASON.
The last of the series of soiries at 38, Great Russell-street, for this
season, closed with a well-attended meeting on the 5th inst. A new and
pleasing feature of the evening was the exhibition of a small but choice
collection of pictures by artist-members of the Association. Signor
Rondi sent several exquisite miniatures after the old masters ; a full-
sized water-colour, copied from a Madonna by Carlo Dolci, attracted
especial attention. Miss Florence Claxton sent one of her well-known
female heads, and Mr. Cornelius Pearson three excellent landscapes of
English scenery. Madame de Steiger exhibited two Oriental subjects,
painted from life, remarkable alike for truth and for their rich harmo¬
nious colouring; and Mr. H. E. Frances sent two genre pictures. Some
medial paintings by Mrs. Hallock and Mr. H. P. Cotton were of
interest. Mr. J. W. Fletcher gave the company a graphic account of his
travels in Egypt. Amongst the guests were Dr. H. J. Billing and
Mrs. Hollis-Billing, who have lately arrived from America to take up
their residence in this country. The musical part of the evening was
well sustained by Mrs. Weldon, Miss Younge, and Mrs. Limpus.
) | A Meeting next Monday.—On Monday evening next, at eight
(j o’clock, the last of the fortnightly meetings this season of the British
j j National Association of Spiritualists will be held at 08, Great Russell-
) j street, London. Mr. Stainton-Moses—who has had the arrangement
(I of the meetings and subjects, and has performed his duties admirably—
| will give a resume of the work done and subjects considered during the
I past session. As this will also probably be the last opportunity the
(I members of the Association will have of meeting in general assembly
j I before next winter, there should be a large attendance.
A Jesuit’s Opinion of Spiritualism.—The following is the opinion
1 j which a learned member of the “ Society of Jesus,” Father J. P. Gury,
I gave in his Compendium Theologice Moralis, 8vo, Ratisbon, 1874, p.
132. The original and a translation are given:—“ Neque fas est}
tahulas aliusve res hujusmodi interrogare experimenti aut joci gratia.
Etenim non licet in re evidenter mala experimentum tentarey nee de ea
recreari." “ And it is not a sin to inquire of tables or other things in
this manner for experiment or for amusement. But in an evident case
[of sin] it is not lawful to attempt a wicked experiment, nor to amuse
ourselves with it.” Father Gury’s work is commonly used by students
of theology in the Roman Catholic Church.
j Scandinavian Mediums.—Modern Spiritualism is not so modem after
j all. The student finds traces of it every where. We are told in Scandina-
I vian history that the Norse chief Ingimund shut up three Finns in a hut
| for three nights that they might visit Iceland and give him information
concerning the country in which he proposed to settle. Their bodies
j became rigid, they sent their souls on the errand, and, awakening after
three days, gave an accurate description of the country. We are also
I told by Jung Stilling that examples came to his knowledge of sick
I persons who, longing to see absent friends, fell into a swoon, during
! which they appeared to the distant objects of their affection. In our
! modern language we use the term “ beside one’s self” with something of
! the old meaning.—Merrimac Journal.
Lunacy Law Amendment Society.—A meeting of this society was
| held at Exeter Hall on Tuesday last week. Reports and cases were
i read by the secretary. Mr. J. Lobb, editor of the Christian Age,
| occupied the chair. Effective speeches were made by several minister’s
| of the Gospel and members of the “Lunacy Law Amendment Society.”
The narrative of an escaped alleged lunatic from Bethlehem Asylum,
| Mr. Atkins, created much excitement. Mrs. Weldon gave a concise,
but graphic, account of her narrow escape from the clutches of the
lunacy doctors. Mr. Crutwell and Mr. Moseley (two barristers), Mr.
Plumridge, the treasurer of the society, and others, made some valuable
| remarks. The meeting, which was a lively one throughout, though
the attendance was small, terminated at a late hour.
“ Psychography.’’—The long-announced volume under this title, by
! one of the most devoted and accomplished students of Spiritualism, has
I been received from England. It forms an elegant volume of one
i hundred and fifty-two pages, well bound in ornamented cloth. Of the
! importance of this remarkable work to Spiritualists and investigators
I we need not speak at this time; we shall in our next call attention to
some of its strong points. Suffice it to say for the present that it places
| the great fact of psychography, or writing independent of any known
I human or mechanical means, upon the most impregnable grounds, and
| makes it a demonstrated and demonstrable fact which modern science
can no longer reject. This great phenomenon once established, the
| cognate phenomena of materialisation must soon be placed in the same
| scientific category. If you want something wherewith to stop the
| mouths of all cavillers who ask, “ What proved phenomena can you
j adduce?” buy a copy of Psychography, and carry it in your pocket as
your all-sufficient answer to all doubters and to all adversaries of the
facts of Spiritualism.—Banner of Light.
Spirit Rapping in John Wesley’s Family.—All the principal
| sounds produced by spiritual agency in our time were heard in the house
! of Rev. John Wesley, at Lincolnshire, England, in the early part of the
i last century. Those illustrations of the presence and power of
i spirits first occurred in 1710, one hundred and sixty-two years
ago. A partial enumeration of the different phases of the pheno-
| mena embraces the following:—Mysterious knockings at the doors
and elsewhere in the different apartments; the moving of pon¬
derable bodies; opening and closing of doors; sounds of footsteps
in the hall, and the rustling of flowing garments; heavy footfalls
| on the stairs—as if persons were ascending and descending—accom¬
panied by a tremulous motion of the whole house. Thundering sounds
whenever Mr. Wesley prayed for the king; sounds such as are pro¬
duced by shifting the sails of a windmill; the apparent falling of
metallic balls among glassware or fine porcelain, and of huge pieces of
coal, which appeared to be broken into many fragments and scattered
over the floor; rocking the cradle, and lifting the bed with Nancy
Wesley on it; and the rattling of silver coin, which appeared to be
poured over Lire. Wesley, and to fall at her feet.—S. B. Brittan, M.D,
284
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 14, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALITY OF LITERARY CULTURE.
BY J. T. MAKKLEY, ACTHOK OF “ STUDIES OF CHARACTER,” AND “ STRAY |
THOUGHTS.”
An able writer, in paying a tribute to the memory of the j
noble Leigh Hunt, says:—11 Literature is the solvent which
melts the rigours of party antagonism, and makes all men |
kin. It survives the misunderstandings of personal conflict,
and unites above the grave the representatives of opposing j
creeds.” Would that we were justified in saying as much j
of theology, which, above all things that are many-sided, j
should teach an example in the matter of cool passion, j
humane feeling, and the charity which smacks of a better j
world. Alas ! the history of rival creeds speak a sad tale. I
Earnest men, labouring for the regeneration of society, have, j
in every age, hated each other whilst discussing themes
Spiritual; and many an unexpressed curse has disturbed the j |
quiet of bosoms where only affection, good wishes, and j1
brotherly interests should have dwelt. Most people seem to j!
forget the great social law of mutual dependence—the more j ]
sacred and comprehensive purposes of existence. We some- !'
how despise the idea of a broader well-being, which Long- j!
fellow has not inaptly poetised :— I j
Not chance of birth or place has made us friends,
Being ofttimes of different tongues and nations, |
But the endeavour for the selfsame ends, |
With the same hopes, and fears, and aspirations. j
We must in all fairness confess that the Literati, as well as |
the students in theology, politics, and the sciences, are not j
minus the disposition to carp, hate, plead, or fight for an j
enemy’s blood; but of those who write epigrams, relate j
histories, conceive parables, or court the Muses, may it be |
affirmed more than of others, that they show, “ The ani- j j
mosities are mortal, but the humanities live for ever.” j
Milton, Bunyan, and De Foe were Radical politicians of an j
unmistakable type, and of course maintained a theory of j
legislation anything but similar to the high-class Toryism |
of the nineteenth century; but because they were men of j
original genius, and given to much sweetness of phrase, |
their political bias, however intense, is forgotten by Con- I
servative journalists and men of letters, who constantly j
refer to, and as brother penmen, seem proud of, the imagina- | j
tive gifts of their departed countrymen'. The staunch old | j
“ obstructionists” of a bygone age, who possessed com- IJ
manding intellect, and could gracefully wield a quill, are !)
remembered and spoken of with special reverence by the j j
scribes of the current era, even by those who live and swear j
by a converse creed. The glorious book-makers of the ] |
Elizabethan reign, the bards of the sunny meadows, the
lyrists of domestic philosophy, the classic caterers for the j
stage, and the men who advanced the ideal, to bless and j |
elevate their fellows; old Raleigh with his burning convic- j
tions, and Shakespeare with his fund of immortal sentiment j j
and knowledge of the mysterious in character—speak with- j [
out hindrance, and with effect, to all conditions of people, j ]
We bury prejudice, and give thanks for the legacy of big j {|
and beautiful thoughts, which come from individuals whose j j j
personal beliefs we perchance cannot welcome, whose faults j j j
we condemn, but whose mental endowments we—whatever I |
may be our honest opinions in regard to life, things in- I
evitable, or destiny—can appreciate, and are ready to I j
applaud.
It is also not a little remarkable that the sacred writers, ! |
the men of intense poetic feeling and sweep of imagination, j j
whose thoughts ran in no narrow groove, are—it may be I I
unconsciously—much admired by the sworn infidels who I j 1
pretend to hate, and not seldom read, the Scriptures to ! I
their own moral destruction. Notwithstanding that the j |
kindred of old Israel were extremely jealous of their national j j
glory, corporate peculiarities, and hereditary creed, they— I |
the nobler spirits—manifested not a little affection for the | |
lofty in thought, the pure in feeling, and the wonderful in j J |
skill, even when found among alien tribes, whose acquaint- j j
ance was made by the events of commerce or militant col- j |
lision. The bards, orators, and men who made a chronicle | j
of what the gods performed in the remote periods of classic | j
Greece, showed a respect for similarities of imaginative en- | I
dowment which is no less surprising than true. The eloquence i j
of the enemy, however withering, was counted for its worth; j j
the poesy of the verseman—many times poisonous in its I i I
sweetness—had untold charms for some cultured, but blood-
desiring foe ; the music of the warrior-minstrel was not at
all times unwelcome to the opposition camp; indeed, people
then, as now, assumed a desperate antagonism to each other,
a rivalry strong and devilish; but*possessed ever an hidden
force of sympathy, not .always controllable, begotten by the
grand in sentiment, or the skilful in art. In the Church,
more especially, men of a warm literary temperament are
the most brotherly, noble, courteous, and humane. They
honestly examine before they condemn the conflicting
philosophies of the age. They possess their souls in patience,
and seldom swear against a theory they cannot accept or fail
to understand. They cultivate two opposite but necessary
virtues—the serpent’s wisdom, and the powerful tenderness
of the dove. With them all men are not liars, nor is every
fool an infallible oracle.
As a matter of etiquette they listen to, if they laugh at,
11 old wives’ fablesand it would require abundant strength
of testimony to make them believe that Jonah swallowed
the whale. If they chase butterflies, or the streaks of the
summer sun, or deign to fall asleep under the May-bushes,
it is because- they are haunted with a poetic frenzy, and are
wont to dream of the “ oaten lute,” the swordless army
of cowslips, and the Almighty <( mirrored in the glossy
depths,” and not from weakness of brain or lack of earnest¬
ness in character. The literary parson is notably generous
to his opponents in theological debate. His colours, when
painting the likeness of an enemy, are more from the rain¬
bow tints than from the sombre hues of the bottomless pit.
Difference in creed is no barrier to a recognition of personal
worth or mental splendour in a contemporary. Unlike the
advocates of one idea, these men of refined disposition claim,
and allow others to have, a measure of truth, which would
not be the case if they were disrespectful to the broader
charities of being. They are the saviours of social life; they
are the salt of religion. Without them the Church would
become the arena of denominational malice; piety would be
vague and ugly in its varied expression; and the liturgy of
confessors become a vehement confusion of tongues. But
even authors have devoured each other, and critics have tried
to kill, with a desperate vengeance. Happily this is excep¬
tional. It bespeaks an untamed humanity. The gifted
young Keats was unfairly slain, but his* censor could only
rejoice in having the strength of the brute. Byron was too
strong in the terrible faith of genius to fear his assailant
Jefferies ; he flung brimstone at his vain accuser, and then
sang the pleasures of conquest. Invariably a literary tem¬
perament breeds a deep sympathy, and is accompanied by
feelings which are lofty, warm, and comprehensive. Wit,
humour, imagination, taste, and the minor virtues of intel¬
lectual culture make most men generous, however much
they may disagree professionally in religion, politics, or
science.
71, Penton-place, London, S.E.
BABYCULTURE BY PROFESSOR HUXLEY.
The following squib is from the New York Times :—
It has long been the belief of many eminent scientific persons that
the various forms of religion now prevailing are the direct results of
different kinds of food. There have hitherto been insuperable diffi¬
culties in the way of demonstrating the truth of this theory, but that
a man’s religion depends upon the kind of food that he uses, and is
modified to some extent by the climate in which he lives, nearly all
advanced thinkers are convinced. It is pleasant to be able to
announce that at last all possibility of doubt on this subject has been
removed by a series of successful experiments narrated by Pro¬
fessor Huxley in his contemplated book on vegetable and alcoholic
religions.
Some time ago Professor Huxley was so fortunate as to obtain
possession of a large litter of young children, the property of a
positivist, who desired to devote his whole time to the study of gin,
and who held that, inasmuch as there is no hereafter, it was not worth
while for him to trouble himself about his children. The latter, who
were to a great extent twins, and were all under eight years of age,
were perfectly free from all religious prejudices, and although the
oldest swore with much fluency, he had no thought of the possibility
of the existence of a God. Placing them in strict confinement, where
no human being but himself and a deaf and dumb nurse could obtain
access to them, Professor Huxley began a series of experiments
with their food, which produced the most satisfactory and valuable
results.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
285
June 14, 1878.
The oldest child was fed 'exclusively upon Swiss cheese, and was i' |
allowed to drink weak brandy and water.* He was kept in a room !1 j
where the temperature was a little above the freezing point, and was i;i
constantly exercised in climbing artificial precipices made of trunks iji
and book-cases. Like the rest of the children, he was taught to read jjj
and write, but received no other instruction. At the end of three j) j
months Professor Huxley was delighted to find him making prepara- j !j
tions for a bonfire, in which he proposed to burn his nurse, on the | i
ground that she did not believe certain doctrines which he believed, j j j
A month later he constructed a rude pulpit, in which he constantly |u
preached sermons denouncing flies and gnats, who were his only I j
hearers, for their fondness for sunshine. Before the end of the first i|j
year he had formulated a creed which Professor Huxley found to bear jjj
a verv strong resemblance to that of John Calvin. It thus became jjj
clear that a diet of Swiss cheese, combined with brandy and water, jjj
and modified by a low temperature, is the immediate cause of jjj
Calvinism. jjj
Meanwhile, another boy had been fed upon oatmeal and whisky ; j j i
made to live in a damp room, and frequently sprinkled with a fine j j j
spray of water, closely resembling a Scotch mist. The boy soon acquired j j j
a peculiar broad accent, and showed a disposition to preach sermons j j j
several hours in length. He displayed a violent aversion to pictures of all jjj
sorts, to scarlet, and to the sound of an organ. A very short time was j j
all that was needed to develop him into an unmistakable Scotch j j
Presbyterian. The experiment was satisfactory in demonstrating the j j
truth of the materialistic theory of the origin of religion, but the j j
unsatisfactory feature was the unconquerable tendency of the boy to j j |
throw things at the professor whenever the latter incidentally men- j j j
tioned that there was no God. j j I
The third boy was kept in a hot room, and fed upon macaroni and j j j
light wines, and compelled to constantly grind a small hand-organ, j j j
This experiment also was a complete success. The boy became an j j j
unmistakable Roman Catholic, and displayed a', degree of devout- j j
ness, joined to a fondness for sticking- his penknife into the professor’s j ji
legs, which filled the latter with scientific delight.
As for the next boy, he was treated with special care, with the view ! j •
of making him an earnest and able scientific person. His diet con- jji
sisted of roast beef and ale, and his playthings were slates and pencils, I j j
mathematical instruments, specimens of minerals and fossils, and ! i
anatomical drawings. Three times every day he was taken to the open j j 1
window, and held, with his mouth open, exposed to the east wind, i jj
Every afternoon, two well-behaved little scientific boys were brought j j
to play with him, and the three were accustomed to play pitch and j j j
toss with a pocket Bible for several hours. It was confidently believed j j j
that under this treatment he would become an eminent scientific j j
person, but Professor Huxley was bitterly disappointed. The boy j j
became a most impertinent and malicious little wretch. His self- I ji
conceit grew intolerable. It was his delight to pick in pieces and spoil j j j
every beautiful object that came within his reach, and to throw stones ! j j
and to hoot at every respectable person who passed near his window, i j j
It is true that he did not believe in the existence of God, but this was j j j
a very slight consolation to Professor Huxley when the latter was j j j
called a bigoted idiot by this wretched boy, or told by him that he was j } j
a stupid automaton, and he would like to disarrange his internal j j j
mechanism with a knife. The boy did not, as need hardly be jjj
remarked, resemble a modern scientific person in the remotest degree, j j
and Professor Huxley confesses himself unable to account for the failure j j
of his experiment. [
Nevertheless, in his contemplated volume, the learned professor has j j
been able to give the several formulae for the production of Swiss ) j
Calvinists, Scotch Presbyterians, and Italian Roman Catholics, and by jjj
these, establish beyond controversy his assertion that religion is the j j |
result of diet. , I
Glimpses of the World Unseen.—The Pall Mall Gazette has a j \
notice of a work by the Rev. Frederick George Lee, entitled More j i
Glimpses of the World Unseen. The following is a specimen of its j1
criticism:—“If a Pope has published a bull against necromancy and j J
intercouse with demons, this (according to Dr. Lee) is sufficient proof ! |
of the reality of such evils ; and the very existence of old Christian I j
forms of exorcism makes it obvious that exorcism was ‘at once sorely j j
needed and frequently practised.’ ‘ Who will then venture (he exclaims) 11
to declare that in these latter days the necessity no longer exists because j1
the cause has been surely removed ? Not I.’ Dr. Lee lays much j
stress, as we might expect he would, on the efficient performance of j
Church rites. A ghost is permitted to appear to a lady who had faith¬
fully attended to her Easter duties; and he notes that out of twenty- j
seven ‘ mediums’ with whom a friend had come into contact, only one j
had received Christian baptism, and that in a sect where it is often
‘ ministered with singular want of care.’ ‘ Spiritualism (he observes)
is obviously paving the way for the coming and reign of Antichrist,’ j
since it is blinding the eyes of weak persons ‘ hitherto satisfied with
the empty husks and miserable negations of Protestantism.’ That j
demons do arise at the demand of mediums he has no doubt whatever; j
and a friend of his, a well-known beneficed clergyman, is convinced
that the moving power of the planchette is supernatural, although
‘ some High Church physiologists scout his conviction.’ But then this j
poor man has very remarkable fingers. Whatever he takes in his hands j
has a way of talking to him; if he holds his eye-glass by its cord, the j
results are ‘ as singular and distinct as with planchette or a pencil,’ j
and ‘ if at any time (he adds, pathetically) I balance a pencil or pen so j
as to leave the point close to the paper, without my asking any question j
mentally or vocally, it is sure, after a time, to form the word ‘ Ask.*
Surely the spirits are not so bad as Dr. Lee considers them, when they j
treat a weak-minded clergyman so gently and considerately. But we
have said enough of a foolish book.” [
^irntg.
SONG. .
From The Triumph of Love, by Ella Dietz.
Thy soul hath brought me to my God,
I have found Him in finding thee,
Before I knelt beneath His rod,
But now His love alone I see.
Earth holds me not; in Paradise
I dwell for ever; hear the Yoice
That spake of old and made men wise ;
Who hath true wisdom may rejoice.
And all my ways are full of peace,
My heart is one with God and Thee,
And still must thankfulness increase
Till life one hymn of praise shall be.
. SONG.
From The Triumph of Love, by Ella Dietz.
0 touch me not, unless thy soul
Can claim my soul as thine;
Give me no earthly flowers that fade,
No love, but love divine:
For I gave thee immortal flowers,
That bloomed serene in heavenly bowers.
Look not with favour on my face,
Nor answer my caress,
Unless my soul have first found grace
Within thy sight; express
Only the truth, though it should be
Cold as the ice on northern sea.
Oh never speak of love to me,
Unless thy heart can feel
That in the face of Deity
Thou would’st that love reveal;
For God is love, and His bright law
Should find our hearts without one flaw.
SUMMER MEADOWS.
BY J. T. MARKLEY.
I.
Immortal Flora! breathe upon the scene 1
And thou Pomona linger to inspire;
’Tis meet some goddess or charmed Fairy Queen
Should now come forth in heaven-touch’d attire,
Attended by the music of Apollo’s lyre—
The soft and sanctified outflow of sound,
Such as the cherubim might e’en desire
In the sweet spheres above—where bliss is found,
And beauty circulates through angel-haunted ground.
ii.
No common consecration hath the flowers,
Elysian meads reveal nought false and low;
The quick’ning morning dew, or evening showers
On herbs, rich fruit, and cool green ferns bestow;
No blessings undeserved, nor sun’s warm glow
Expend in vain its life-promoting smile,
O’er perfumed l.awns where motley flowerets grow,
But through the prairie waste and sea-washed isle
Eternal wisdom guards and shapes each tint and style.
in.
On flowery Grecian plains fair Daphne’s breast
Assumed the foliage of the fadeless bay,
And praise rush’d through her lover’s lute—confessed
Mad passion for the evergreen display—
Drove the poor minstrel’s fragment chords away,
And brought a holier music into birth—*
Songs of grand garlands that defied decay,
That swell’d triumphantly in fruitful worth—
Yoicing to heaven’s height the humbler poesy of earth.-
IV.
Not sylvan groves or scented herbs alone,
Not fabled plants or silken orchard bloom,
Or tasselled moss upon the antique stone |
Shall chain man’s love! the wild rose on the tomb,
And gilliflowers that gracefully assume
A majesty they modestly sustain;
Preach by the incense of their own perfume
The sweet life fostered by the April rain,
And various charm of tint, they from stray sunbeams gain.
71, Penton-placo, Newington, London, S.E.
Corresponnence.
[Qreal freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are not anonymous.]
CHRISTIAN HEINRICH HEINECKEN.
Sir,—Though not myself doubting the good faith of the medium
through whom your correspondent “ A. T. T. P. ” obtained the remark¬
able communication purporting to come from the German Wunderhind,
I was yet, for the purpose of evidence, rather disappointed to find that
there was an account of him in the well-known English book Knight's
Encyclopedia. I referred to that account, but also to the German
i Cyclopaedia of Ersch and Gruber. And the result is that I am able to
286
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 14, 1878.
supply your readers with what to my mind is a most striking confirma¬
tion of the authenticity of the communication. It will be remembered
that one of the particulars given by the spirit was that throughout his
short second earth life he had to be fed by his nurse. There is not one
word of this trifling fact in Knight’s account, but from the German
account I translate the following:—“ Still, he had always been suckled
by a nurse, partly on account of his weak constitution, but partly also
because he showed a disinclination for every other nourishment.” It
is added, “ when he was at length weaned, his health appeared to
improve, .... but the weakness returned unexpectedly, so that the
boy himself remarked his approaching end, without, as it is related,
letting himself be disturbed by this all too early fading away.” The
boy was born 6th February, 17.21, and died 27th June, 1725. His life,
therefore, lasted four years and nearly five months. The evidence for his
existence, precocious powers, and early death seems unexceptionable.
His biography was published at Liibeck in 1726 by his tutor, Christian
von Schoneich. His fame was widely spread during his life, and he
was carried to Copenhagen by desire of the King of Denmark. For
other authorities Knight’s notice of him may be consulted.
The improbability that the medium (who is well known) got his
information from a German source seems to me very great, and unless
it is shown that there exists an English version giving the above fact of
the child’s life, I think we, whose similar affirmative experience has so
largely reduced the adverse presumption which others must or, at least,
will set off against evidence, must accept the communication of it as
strong corroborative evidence of spirit identity. I confess I have rarely
been so much impressed by any fact tending to this conclusion.
On referring again to “ A. T. T. P.’s” letter I see the duration of the
child’s life was given through the medium as five years and nine
months, being one year and four months more than the time included
between the dates of birth and death as given in the printed accounts—
a noticeable discrepancy.
C. C. Massey.
Temple.    
NIRVANA.
Sir,—Pray allow me to thank Dr. Carter Blake for his suggestions
in the last Spiritualist, though I do not think that they will be of any
use to me, seeing that I do not desire to have anything to do with
“ devilry.” From the tone of Baboo Peary Chand Mittra’s paper I
infer that the rites mentioned by him are of a religious nature. But if
they are not I do not wish to have anything to do with them.
One Who Desires Nirvana.
BLOOD-WRITINO PHENOMENA.
To the Editor of “ The Banner of Light."
Sir,—As every phase of spirit manifestation is of interest, I consider
one that has just occurred, which is of somewhat an unique character,
to be worth recording. I therefore give you the particulars.
The subject of the phenomenon is the wife of Mr. Henry C. Lull,
at whose house I am residing. This lady, though not professedly a
medium, evidently possesses the requisite organisation to develop into
one. Rappings attend her, by means of which she is enabled to com¬
municate with her sister, who passed away a few months ago.
Mrs. Lull had noticed a peculiar sensation in her arm, above the
elbow, which was not only unpleasant, but painful. This increased to
such an extent as to cause her to examine it. It was found to be very
red. While looking at it, and wondering what was the matter, the
letter H appeared and then faded away, and another letter was formed
in the place of it, and in this way the name of her sister was given in
capital letters resembling type, about an inch in height, the whole
process lasting about five minutes.
Spirit-writing on the arm is not a very common manifestation. It
occurred with the late Mr. Colchester; and Mr. Foster is, I believe,
now the subject of it; but in these cases the writing, I think, has been
in scarlet with white ground, while in the present case the letters were
white on a red ground. There is also another difference to be noted.
Usually the name appears in full at once, but in Mrs. Lull’s case the
letters appeared singly, one taking the place of the other, thus doing
away with the theory generally employed to explain this form of mani¬
festation, viz., preparation. During the occurrence loud rappings were
heard about the room. Robert Cooper.
943, Washington-street, Boston.
The Mission of Mrs. Wilkes.—Mrs. Wilkes, who is encouraged in
her work by Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. A. Calder, and several other
Spiritualists, sends us the following circular:—“ Scorn her not, but
help her.—This cannot be called a society, but a fund is required to
gather some ‘ friendless and fallen women; ’ in some cases to place them
in temporary homes, sometimes to send them to their friends, often to
draw upon as subscriptions to the institutions already at work, and
which need help; but more especially to open a door in large cities
where the ‘ unfortunate ’ may be spoken with. They are a difficult
class to reach, for their position makes it hard for some who would help
them to gain an introduction and interview. A small shop, to be kept
by one interested in the wolk, is to be opened, so that easy access may
be gained to many who would not care to go to a private house. In
time this shop may be made almost self-supporting, and, it is hoped,
will be of much service. In the spring of 1874 I began this work in
Bristol. In November, 1875, I was able to publish a report of seven
saved from the streets of that city by giving them, not charity, but
honourable occupation. I now ask aid to begin my work anew in
London. Subscriptions will be received by the ladies of the committee,
and by myself at 42, Gower-street, W.C., London.—Anna Wilkes,
4th June, 1878.
| [ HUMAN IMPERSONALITY.
I tj j BY EPES SARGENT.
| | Do those critics who reject the notion of a divine personality ever
I (| trouble themselves with the question, whether a perfect personality can
|[| be predicated of man himself ? It is hardly necessary for us here to
I ) | go into the etymological history of the word person; but we will glance
| (i at it in passing.
j j ] Personal in Latin (from per through, and sonare to sound) meant the
| )| mask worn by an actor on the ancient stage, within which the sounds of
| (| the voice were concentrated, and through which he made himself heard
| ) by the immense audience. From being applied to the mask it came
j 11 next to be applied to the actor, then to the character acted, then to any
! (j individual of the human race, and then, according to the definition of
| [ ] Locke, to “ a thinking, intelligent being that has reason and reflection,
j j | and can consider itself as itself, the same thinking being in different
! (| times and places.”
| | This definition is too limited. More in harmony with modern
| j i thought is that which defines personality as having for its elements
j i (1) existence, (2) consciousness of existence, (3) control over the mani-
| 11 festations of existence. Under this last comprehensive definition we
I | justify our conceptions of the divine personality.
Applying this higher definition to the case of man, how imperfectly
i i appears his personality, looked at in its strictly normal exercise and
i (i relations. Of many of the processes of his physical and psychical
| j j being, he is wholly unconscious ; nay, he may be often unconscious of
| j I his own existence. Only partially has he the manifestations of exist-
i (| ence under his control. The voluntary and involuntary muscles in man,
! 11 his conscious and his automatic actions show what a mere fragment of
| | actual personality he has in his normal state. Even when he is at his
| (I highest, and trying to take cognisance of his own thoughts—when he
j 11 would be at once subject and object—how hard it is for him to so far
i | i abstract the conscious from the unconscious elements of his nature as to
i (| recognise with clearness the dividing line ! Man is therefore largely
| | i impersonal, and it is only in a limited sense that he .can be said to have
| (j personality.
(i Only that being whose cause of existence is within himself—who
j exists necessarily and not contingently, who has the manifestations of
| his existence under his own control—can be said to have personality in
U the highest sense. And even he, having the manifestations of his
| existence under his own control, may voluntarily sink into impersonality
II • in some of those manifestations. He may be, of his own voli-
(| tion, impersonal in the on-goings of nature. He may have what
| j Schelling calls “ a limiting and denying energy” by which his full per-
I ! sonality is kept in reserve. Like man he may have distinct states of
(| consciousness. Imminent in nature, he may be above and beyond
! nature, free and transcendent, just as we conceive of the spirit of man
j as transcending his physical and corporeal limitations.
II To say, therefore, that the divine personahty is an “ absurdity,” is to
(! have but a narrow conception of a Being infinite in the highest sense,
(i and free from all infirmity and imperfection. He may be not only per-
11 sonal and super-personal, but impersonal also in some of his manifesta-
11 tions. The infinity of his nature may take in more phases of manifesta-
(| tion and of activity than it is possible for us to conceive. He may stoop
> | to hear the prayer of a little child, even though the child’s conception
) | of him be anthropomorphic and confused. He may give beauty to a
(I flower. He may be able to cause the universe to roll up like a scroll,
) | and vanish into the invisibility whence it came forth.
(j Even atheists admit that a will and an intelligence are manifest in the
(| operations of nature; but that will and intelligence, as here displayed,
> ] may be merely a partial—possibly an unconscious—manifestation of that
j | supreme conscious power, infinite, personal, and omniscient, which we
| j call God; for God in the highest may be personal, while God, in lower
)! manifestations of His being, may be impersonal. Thus may the
(! theistic and the pantheistic theories be harmonised ; distinct, and yet
(j one, like the convex and concave of the same curve. The conception
| i does not lack analogy with what the psychology of Spiritualism reveals
(j to us of the distinct state of consciousness in man.—Religio-Philo-
(| sophical Journal.
A Noisy Ghost at Pollokshaws.—For two nights past the minds
of people resident in Main-street, Pollokshaws, have been much
exercised concerning a loud knocking heard in the property there at
Mr. G. Dalrymple’s public-house. The knocking began on both
occasions about nightfall, and continued till after midnight. About
1,000 persons congregated at the place on Tuesday night, and much
| excitement prevailed, so that the police had Some difficulty in clearing
the street. Endeavours have been made to account for the noise, but
without success.—Glasgow News, June 7th, 1878.
Spiritualism and Materialism.—Deeply sensible of the Titanic
i struggle that is now in progress between materialism and the spiritual
aspirations of mankind, our constant endeavour has been to gather into
our several chapters, like weapons into armouries, every fact and
argument that can be used to aid the latter in defeating the former.
Sickly and deformed child as it now is, the materialism of to-day is
born of the brutal yesterday. Unless its growth is arrested it may
become our master. It is the bastard progeny of the French Revolution,
and its reaction against ages of religious bigotry and repression. To
I prevent the crushing of these spiritual aspirations, the blighting of
these hopes, and the deadening of that intuition which teaches us of a
| God and a hereafter, we must show our false theologies in their naked
] deformity, and distinguish between divine religion and human dogmas.
Our voice is raised for spiritual freedom, and our plea made for enfran¬
chisement from all tyranny, whether of science or theology.—Isis
j Unveiled.
June 14, 1878.
287
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE WEIGHING OF MEDIUMS DURING MANIFES¬
TATIONS.
The new discoveries recently made by the Research Committee of
the British National Association of Spiritualists have been widely
circulated, to the extent of 3,500 additional copies, of which 500 were
sent abroad, and nearly all the others distributed in the West-end of
London.
The Religio - Philosophical Journal (Chicago), has reprinted the
description of the experiments in full, but without diagrams, and in the
absence of these much of the text is confusing to readers.
The following is from The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.), of
May 25th:—
To the Editor of “ The Banner of Light.”
Sir,—My attention was called to the issue of The Spiritualist of May
3rd by a brief notice in the last Banner. I procured a copy of the same,
and have read with deep interest the lengthy article by Mr. Harrison
upon weighing a medium during the production of spiritual manifesta¬
tions, especially those of materialisation, and recording the variations
from the normal weight of the medium. This experiment was tried
three or more years ago in this country by Col. Olcott, Dr. Storer, Mr.
Geo. A. Bacon, and myself, with Mrs. Markee, the noted medium, then
of Havana, N.Y., and more recently at Rochester, N.H., by E. Gerry
Brown, of Boston, with the now famous medium, Mrs. John R.
Pickering. These variations were found to range from twenty to sixty
or seventy pounds, demonstrating the wonderful fact that during the
transpiration of these phenomena the body of the medium actually
suffers this immense temporary loss of vital forces—of solid substance,
may we not say ?
In the light of this fact, can any one fail to see the possible danger
to the medium should anything interfere with the return of these
forces to the source from whence they were borrowed—even the
possible extinction of life itself ?
We have fresh in memory the frantic struggles of the psychic form
that was rudely and brutally grasped at a seance given by Mrs. Markee
in Rochester, N.Y., in its efforts to reach the cabinet in season to
render back these borrowed forces before fatal results should accrue to
the medium. By partially de-materialising in the hands of its captor
it succeeded in regaining the medium in time to save her life, but not
in time to prevent a great shock to her system, so that for days and
weeks her life was despaired of, and she was rescued from death after
great suffering only by the most assiduous care and attention.
It seems to me that Spiritualists themselves are strangely insensible
to the wonder of these marvels that are transpiring so generally
throughout the world, and most unaccountably indifferent to the effects
of the phenomena upon the mental and physical organisation of the
media.
While I fully admit the importance of protecting ourselves in every
possible manner against being imposed upon by unprincipled charlatans
in the sacred name of mediumship, I do not believe we have any right
to approach mediums in an arrogant or dictatorial spirit, assuming them
to be impostors. Nor do I believe that we have a right to dictate to
the spiritual world the terms and conditions upon which we will
consent to receive its revelations, as if we were conferring upon it an
infinite condescension in deigning to receive the most inestimable boon
that can-be vouchsafed to humanity. I believe there is altogether too
much of this spirit abroad. It was said by one of olden time who was
wise in spiritual things, and who manifested a deep insight into the
workings of spiritual laws, “ Except ye become as little children ye
cannot enter the kingdom of heaven.” The law holds good through all
the ages. To enter the kingdom of spiritual truth to-day there must
be in some degree the humble, trusting, teachable spirit of a little
child.
The editor of the London Spiritualist, in the article to which we refer,
evidences that he recognises the importance of this law when he says,
in reference to the medium through whom he was about to make these
deeply-interesting experiments, “ One element of success was that he
should be quite happy and contented with his sitters, so that he could
pass calmly into the trance state satisfied that they were not likely to
play him any tricks.”
Accordingly, he invited a gentleman who was selected by the lawyers
to give testimony in the Slade case, and who almost invariably gets
good manifestations. And why ? Simply “ because he behaves in a
kindly way to mediums, and does not go about thirsting for their
blood.” In other words, does not approach a medium bristling with
the assumption implied, if not expressed, ” You are a fraud, and I
know it, and am going to prove it.”
Approaching the investigation with something of the spirit of little
children, these gentlemen obtained the results the narration of which
makes this article so deeply interesting, corroborating as it does the
experience of investigators in this country, who, however, conducted
their experiments in a much less accurate and scientific manner.
Mr. Harrison says truly that “ Every new discovery spreads fresh
rays of light upon previous known facts.”
More than twenty years ago, at the house of Mr. Daniel Farrar, in
Hancock-street, Boston, I was levitated and floated above the heads of
more than twenty persons within a foot of the ceiling. My sensations
I shall never forget. My body felt as light as a cork, or a bladder
filled with air, and I believe that could it have been weighed during
the occurrence of that phenomenon, it would have been found that its
weight had been reduced by this mystic process to a very low minimum,
and I believe that by a continuance of investigations like these insti¬
tuted by the London Spiritualists, very many of the phenomena of
mediumship that now excite the hostility of scientists, because of their
seeming infraction of known laws, will be found to occur in perfect
harmony with those laws.
This entire article of Mr. Harrison’s is pregnant with interest. I
am glad to learn that you have an extra supply of the issue.
F. L. H. Willis, M.D.
As regards the first paragraph of this letter, we are not aware of
changes in the weight of a medium during manifestations having been
previously discovered and published anywhere.
Mr. E. G. Gerry Brown, of Boston, U.S., has printed a theory new
to this country, namely, that the record contains no evidence that the
medium did not manipulate the indicating apparatus in the dark. Each
diagram printed with the record being of the right length, and indications
being registered at the very moment of particular manifestations, this
theory is equivalent to stating that while the medium was swinging a
musical-box two or three yards in front of the cabinet, he was also
drawing in the dark at the back of the cabinet, and with apparatus he
had never handled before, some scientific diagrams perfectly accurate
in time and space. And these wonders, it is assumed, he may have
performed without discovery in the midst of sceptical witnesses, some of
them so close to the apparatus that they could constantly hear it steadily
at work. '• ^ ;,
The frequent publication by enthusiastic witnesses of wonderful form
manifestations, not produced under test conditions, has encouraged so
much imposture in Spiritualism in the United States, that the whole
subject, as well as an alleged particular case, recently came under con¬
sideration at a public “ indignation” meeting of Spiritualists in Chicago.
The proceedings were fully reported in the Chicago Times.
Ghostly “Manifestations” in an English Village.—Great alarm
has prevailed in the village of GoathUrst, a few miles from Bridgwater,
during the past fortnight, in consequence of the belief that a farmhouse
there, in the occupation of Mr. John Shattock, a well-to-do yeoman and
a representative of the parish at the board of guardians, was haunted.
It is alleged that every night loud raps were heard at the front and back
doors, that articles of furniture and crockery were shifted from one
portion of the premises to another, and that, although many of the
inhabitants and some members of the county constabulary were on the
watch both inside and from without, and a large mastiff was stationed
just outside the front door which was rapped at, the “manifestations ”
continued, and no clue could be obtained as to who or what was the
cause of them. It is positively asserted “by some of the more
respectable inhabitants ” that the knocks at the door, apparently
from the outside, have been heard by them while they have guarded all
the approaches to the premises, and that immediately on hearing these
raps they have fired pistols in the direction of the door, but without
effect. The alarm was increased by a straw-rick close to the dwelling-
house, and belonging to the same owner, having taken fire and been
totally destroyed, the ignition having taken place quite unaccountably,
and whilst the neighbours and friends of the farmer were on the watch.
The district superintendent of police, who visited the premises by
night on two occasions, had, however, it seems, after the manner of
police officers, formed a certain “ theory ” of his own, and this has
resulted in the apprehension of a girl named Ann Kidner, aged fourteen
years, a domestic servant in the employ of Mr. Shattock, on a charge
of setting fire to her master’s ricks. It is suspected that this girl,
although she strongly protests her innocence, is concerned in the “ mani¬
festations,” if she has not been the direct and sole cause of them.—
Glasgow News, May 20 th, 1878.
The Action of the Pulse in Phreno-Mesmeric Experiments.—
Several experiments were once made by Dr. J. R. Buchanan before the
Phreno-Mesmeric Society of Cincinnati, attended by Judges McLean,
Rowan, and Walker, Bishop Purcell, Prof. Matthews, Drs. Marshall,
Bonner, Latta, and others. Mr. Valentine, a gentleman of large brain
and highly impressible temperament) was operated on with prompt
results. In one of the experiments, “ alimentiveness ” being strongly
excited, Mr. Valentine, rather than wait for the arrival of food, com¬
menced eating a tallow candle. The experiments on the pulse, as
published in the Journal of the Society, were reported as follows:—
“Dr. Buchanan then proceeded to some experiments upon the pulse,
Drs. Bonner and Latta being placed one on each side of Mr, Valentine
in order to observe the state of the pulse previous to the experiment
and the changes that might occur during its progress. Before com¬
mencing the pulse was observed to beat seventy-two in a minute, and to
be full, soft, and easily compressed. The head was then touched on
various parts of the frontal and occipital regions, and as the hand of
the operator passed from front to back and from back to front, the
character of the pulse rapidly passed through every change of quality,
from full, soft, and compressible, to tense, wiry, and diminished
volume, irritable and irregular, being also much diminished in velocity
in the one case and accelerated in the other; sometimes beating only
sixty and then in a minute or two increasing to eighty. These experi¬
ments were very marked and decisive in their results. During the
whole course of these experiments on the pulse the physicians who
observed and reported the results sat with their back to the operator,
and one of them requested him not to name the parts of the head
touched in succession. In this situation of things the changes of the
pulse were announced, and were observed to follow quickly the change
of the position of the operator’s hand ; the soft, full, slow pulse corre¬
sponding to the excitement of the frontal region, and the quick, thin,
wiry, and irritable pulse that of the occipital and basilar regions. The
change of pulse usually became evident to the physicians in about one
minute from the time when the hand was transferred to a different
region, and each spot that was touched invariably produced the same
effect when excited the second or third time as when manifested
at first."
m
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 14, 1878,
THE GHOST OF YASQUEZ.
The Satt Jose Mercury of October 21st, 1877, contains the narrative
of a reporter’s experience in a cell which is said to be haunted by the
ghost of Vasquez, the bandit, who was hanged for murder within the walls
of the County Prison. Criminals who have been placed there since his
execution have begged to be removed from the scene of its nightly
visitations. Strange and chilling stories are told of what they have
seen and heard. The Mercury says:—
About twenty minutes after we had taken our places in the cell, and
had made considerable noise in moving around, we heard Madden call
to his room-mate, saying, “ Bernal, there is some fellow in the Yasquez
cell.” Then followed a conversation between Madden and us, in which
particulars were given of our assumed crime, departure from San
Francisco, particulars of capture, and when this information was
received the young man subsided into silence. None of the other
prisoners appeared to be awake, and all was as silent as the tomb. We
lit a candle, and sat down upon the prison bunk awaiting developments,
and in our uneasiness in waiting for the appearance of ghosts, arose
and walked to the wicket and the grating and peered out into the corridor
and passage. Everything was silent, not a sound to break the stillness.
Under the impression that light was unfavourable to the ghostly visit, it
was blown out, and we were left peering into the darkness of the
dungeon, whispering to each other. To one unused to darkness a
feeling of utter loneliness takes possession of him, and even the human !
voice, so comforting under almost all kindred circumstances, sounds i
strangely unnatural in its suppressed whisperings. Soon we realised I
this, and our whisperings ceased, and we, in conformity with everything j
around us, relapsed into a gloomy silence, continuing until about half- j
past eleven, when we were startled by a quick, crashing sound, such as
is produced by throwing a glass bottle against a wall. This proceeded
apparently from the west corner of the prison, and was immediately j /.
followed by two similar crashes in the south corner, and a fourth and I (j
louder similar crash against the east side of the wall, while immediately j j
following the last was heard at our cell door a low, monotonous j >
thundering sound, as of some dull instrument striking against the door I j
about a foot from the bottom. What wild fancies flitted through our j J
minds we do not now remember, but we felt the plot deepening, and the I)
ghostly visitant growing more familiar. We called to the prisoners to i j
tell us what was the cause of the noise, when Madden, the only one j (
who appeared to be awake, answered, “ That’s Vasquez’s ghost, you are j j
in the haunted cell,” and while he poured out the tale of his experiences j \
with the shade, the knocking slowly grew louder, but retaining the same i (
monotony until it made the cell vibrate with the noise of the blows, j >
We went to the wicket and looked out, up and down the corridor, but | (
could see nothing. | (
We could not look to the foot of the door, as the wicket was too small, i /
but ran out a hand and reached down as far as was possible without | (
detecting anything or causing the noise to cease. It began, however, j \
gradually to decrease in power or volume, falling slowly, until it died |)
away. Again all was silent, remaining so for some time, and all at once | (
broken by the deep clank of a chain, as if a shackled foot was being j j
raised from the ground, the chain dragged along and the foot placed |)
down, causing the chain to rattle and clash. After the first four or five | (
sounds of the chain the rapping at the door recommenced. One of us j,
sprang to the wicket, another to the gratings. The rapping at the door i)
was the same as before, while the noise of the chain appeared to come i \
slowly up the passageway between the cells with slow and measured j)
pause, as of a person walking to the rear of our cell. Then the clanking | (
ceased, suddenly to be recommenced, as if on the return. The noise of i (
the rapping and the clanking of the chain up and down the passageway i >
continued for upward of an hour, with short pauses. The sounds j)
of the chain were real and natural, and as it came slowly and | \
steadily up the passage for the last time of the first performance, it j)
seemed to pass up the iron guards at the end of the passage, over on the j (
top of the cell, around and down again, and slowly passing down the j (
passage be lost as if in distance. The rapping, which had continued i >
during the performance,'died out in a few minutes. | (
With the ceasing of the rapping and the clanking of the chains all i (
was again silent for about five minutes, when in the distance was heard j)
a low deep noise, as of the baying of a hound. It began to sound i (
nearer and nearer, gradually increasing in power, and came suddenly 1 j
in a deafening and piercing wail, apparently through the top of the j)
prison, descending and screaming around the corridors again and again, j (
closing in a suddenly unnatural appalling shriek, such as is imagined to j)
be the lastutterance of a damned spiritcast over the battlements of heaven j) I
headlong into hell. It was a sound calculated to freeze the blood, and, j j
though it came frequently during the night, instead of becoming in )
some manner familiar, became more horrid and fearful, dreary and j) |
desolate at each utterance. Immediately following this came again the j \ I
clanking of chains and the rapping, now low, now hard, and again j;!
deafening. This was continued until about two o’clock in the morning, |) j
when the clanking of chains and shrieking entirely ceased and were |sj
heard no more. The rapping continued, and almost an hour was passed i > j
in what is called spirit conversation, the ghost, if ghost it is, answering u
the majority of questions put. At three o’clock, when we were led to is
believe the ghosts had departed, we returned to rest, and were just | ;|
dozing away, when the rappings recommenced, continuing about ten i )\
minutes, and then ceasing altogether, leaving us to sit up until half- Kj
past seven o’clock yesterday morning, when we were released no wiser i);
than when we came in, except in the matter of satisfying ourselves that ;(i
the noise prisoners claim to have heard we also heard. How they are K|
produced we do not pretend to say. These are the facts; each one can j M
form his own opinion. As for us, we are undetermined as tq what is m
the cause of that above narrated, ' ■
A HAUNTED HOUSE SUITABLE FOE INVESTIGATORS.
(From the Religio-Philosophical Journal.')
I have been an investigator of the phenomena of spirit intercourse
for the last thirteen years, and have seen it in its various phases, and
have attended seances in almost every State from Maine to Tennessee;
but never before I came to this part of the Old Dominion have I seen
the signs of it so strong as I have during the past three and a half years.
I will specify one particular experience which occurred during the latter
part of April and the first of May, 1875. I was then boarding in a
small, old-fashioned cottage farmhouse, that stands on or near the
shore of Chesapeake Bay, nine miles north of Fortress Monroe, and
five miles north-east of this home. The house stands near the banks of
a stagnant salt water creek, through which no fresh tides ever sweep,
except during a strong easterly wind. A narrow beach, covered with a
fine grove, separates the creek from Chesapeake Bay. In the house are
three rooms on the ground floor and two above, and a small hole under
the house about four feet square, used as a cellar. The nearest neighbour’s
house is about seventy-five rods west of this house. This cottage where
I was stopping stands on the eastern border of a forty-acre open field,
and the only trees near are a few apple and cherry trees. The family
which then occupied the house consisted of an old soldier friend of
mine (who was an inmate of this Home), and his wife and two little
girls. Previous to my going there to board, I had been there on short
visits of a day or so at a time. The invisibles would open the doors, no
matter how securely fastened, at all hours of the day or night. The
front door was secured by a heavy white-oak bar, in addition to a heavy
lock. The rear door of the kitchen was fastened with six hasps secured
| by heavy screw staples. Well, this made no difference with the evil
spirits, for they would open the front door with such a jerk that the
taken bar would be hurled clear across the room, and the key bolt shot
back far quicker than it could have been by a key. In addition to
opening the door, they would make such frightful shrieks in the atmosphere
outside that they would almost make one’s hair stand on end. Then again
they would shake the house as though with the throes of an earthquake.
They would stamp around the house at all hours of the night, and make
noise enough for a crowd of men clad in armour.
The family owned at that time two courageous watch-dogs, which
would never allow the approach of any mortal after dark, but when
these manifestations were going on they would not venture forth from
under the kitchen, but lie there and whine and bark.
All the above manifestations occurred so often that we got used to
them, but on the evening of May 1st, while we were trying to hold a
circle, they made such uncommonly strong demonstrations that it threw
one of the dogs into convulsions, from the effects of which he died in
less than twenty-four hours. But now comes the last night of my stay
there. About midnight, of May 3rd, a racket was produced that
awakened me out of a sound sleep, and aroused all the rest; a noise at
the front door sounded as though there had been a load of bricks
dumped on to the front porch. Every door flew open at once; the
crockery ware tumbled out of a closet on to the floor and broke; the
hasps were torn out of the kitchen doors. My friend seized an old U.S.
musket that was heavily loaded with buckshot and went out in the
kitchen, and behold the door was shut, and he could not open it; but he
opened the upper half of the wing door and looked out, and then called
my attention to the visible presence of all this devilry. It was a bright
moonlight night. There, at just two rods from the door, walked a thing,
an apparition of a tall man, bare-headed, looking exactly as if he had
just got out of a coffin—looked, in fact, just as a galvanised corpse
would if walking. My friend jumped out over the half-door, and the
spectre suddenly disappeared for a moment. He then saw it again
about forty rods from the house in an open field. He then took
deliberate aim at it and fired. With an unearthly yell the form turned
into a blue vapour, assumed a spiral shape, and shot up into the air
out of sight. This I saw with my own eyes. I shall never forget it as
long as I live. That was the only visible manifestation while they lived
there, but the other disturbances drove them away. They are now living
in the village of Hampton, Va., and can substantiate all of the above
incidents.
The old house has stood empty ever since they left, now about eighteen
months. The owner can get no one to occupy it, and the rent for the
whole farm is only forty dollars a year. Chas. A. Fiske.
National Soldiers’ Home, Elizabeth City, Ya.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Q-. D., Naples.—Your reply is absolutely just, but as no public instruction
would be given, and as answering abuse merely keeps strife alive, you bad
better let the matter pass without public notice. Aggressors and evil-
tempered people who care more to have their own way than to advance the
public interests of Spiritualism should be dealt with in private by letter or
otherwise, and prevented from airing their evil disposition in public to the
injury of everybody, more especially of themselves. We do not answer and
put right every petty wrong ; it is better to let small things pass for the
sake of that peace which undeveloped communities cannot attain.
B.—All reports by a witness who says that ho has seen the medium and a
spirit at the same time, are comparatively worthless when he does not state
whether he saw the living flexible features of both of them at the same
time, and whether the rest of the observers present saw what he did. A
witness who keeps silence on these points, and substitutes a vague general
statement instead of minutely setting forth what was seen, does not induce
conviction in the minds of readers, and acts disrespectfully to them by
withholding details essential to sound judgment.
F. S., New South Wales.—We do not desire anti-theological articles from your
district; they can be written at home if wanted. Local psychological news
yrould be valued, especially if it has an instructive tendency.
June 14, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the sendees of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Enes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . •
The Physician. VoL I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer.' „ III. „ .
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . •
The Thinker. „ V. „ . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) .
Philosophy of Special Providence . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . . .
Morning Lectures . . . . •
s. d.
• 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
7 6
7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6’
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 8 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiuitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... AO
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History ot American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618>a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Am Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind"; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople , . . ... .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . ■ 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recenth/ produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London,
by william h. Harrison.
Limp Uloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free In, Id.
88, Great Russell Street, London, IF. (7.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pfe-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistio throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.’’—London Pigaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ‘hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mcdiumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—^Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Variey, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, an’d Rcvd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New — Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to.
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Refiections.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-steeet.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1809 to"the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Variey, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, jEI 10s,
London: W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.G.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: GuldenstubbS—Crookes.
Personal Experiences In Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
1.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence .of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay,G. H. Adshead,W. P.Adshead, E.H.Valter,J.L.O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John VVetherbec, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E' idence of Hon. R-. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Tknayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
lit From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation ol
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates, securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss ICislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monok were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force; Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Pace Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theoiy; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London: W. H. HARRISON, 38, Great Russell-street.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL."
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)’), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the tranee-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta ”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marry at—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Bume—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism-—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Erie Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immdrtallty. By Alfred itusse
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 14, 1878,
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet ' given with each bottle of
EEO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from soimd ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
affects of errors of eating and drinking.
Ip NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
fPNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes
* -A “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
FpNO’S FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes: —
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
n which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise. '   
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
s particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s. own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that^ if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun.,’ Tudor-road, Canterbury.
E
E
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, causedby Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
‘ ‘ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
erless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please—I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. so, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sclt Agent *or Pam—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The' Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The gong of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung. —17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaios.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Manning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to he rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobolejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says tndt the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
. “ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, it rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume-.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
„ From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...*How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is * How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit. ... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of Its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over.. .The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
an 3 which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
ireje member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
d/idnot mind them.'] ... “It contains some very choice, poems
and prose essays, is "bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
"W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late "Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
! the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS..
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep,
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experimeuts—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and AntipUthies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IVDirect Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted-Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta^
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovisiou
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VHI: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress oi rnrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals— Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiologicai, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment oi Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyanee—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be StudenU-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary. .
London: W. H. Harrison, 38,‘ Great Russell-street, W.C.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridgh & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St George
the Martyy, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Aye
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
