RsaiSIifcBD IB a NbttsJapss.
iyf> joUf(HSi< ^^YdSo^o^idS^ ^dis^K^^-
dDItost t0mt^tfeir foitj S^intnaltsm in ffixmt Britain.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque *46, Boulevard des
Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 3, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi,Via Della Maltonaia. ROME:
Signor Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH :Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russcll-street-South. SHANGHAI : Messrs. Kelly and Co. NEWYORK:
51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light ” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. SAN FRAN¬
CISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA : 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 356.—(Vol. XIV.—No. 25.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JUNE 20, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Life of Ransom. By James A. Campbell  289.
Medhimship ..   291
The Physical Condition of Miss Fancher, the Clairvoyante 292
The Shakers.. ., ..,  .. .. .. 293
Curious Coincidences..   .. .. .. .. 293
A Form-Manifestation in the Fifteenth Century. By
Epes Sargent    294
William Lloyd Garrison .. ......    294
A Prophetic Vision   294
Ancient and Mediaeval Divination. By S. E. De Morgan 295
A Great Hoax about Trances in Animals.. .. .. .. 296
Synchronous Hallucinations  .. .. .. 297
Poetry—The Spirits’ Return, 298 ; The Close of a Useful
life    .. .. 298
Correspondence—Spirit Identity, 298 ; Hospital Libraries,
298; The Authorship of Shakespeare’s Plays, 298 ;
Visitors to a Reading-room, 298 ; Organization
among Spiritualists, 298 ; Prophetic Dreams .. .. 299
Answers to Correspondents   .. .. ... 300
Paragraphs—Spirit Photographs in Court 295
THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics
of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PKICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated
Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries throughout
the Globe ; it also has an influential body of readers on the
Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading
and more experienced Spiritualists, includingmany eminent in
the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among
those who have published their names in connection with their
communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F. R.S.;
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal
of Science ’’ (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but has,
up to the present rime, expressed no decided opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, President of the Biological Sec¬
tion of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
(1876) ; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the
Right Hon. the Countess of Caithness ; His Imperial Highness
Nicholas of Russia (Duke of Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S. ; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
(formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples); Baron
Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald Massey; Le Comte
de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly American
Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Parkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, Presi¬
dent of the British National Association of Spiritualists; the
Rev. J. Tyerman (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.);
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George
Wyld ; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
kof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order
of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay
(Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore ; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B,
(India); ■ Mrs. Honeywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr.
Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George Stock, B. A. (Oxon);
Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian
Reimers; Mr. William White (author of the “Life of Sweden-
borg'-’);: Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S-A.;
Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-L*w; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. C. Con¬
stant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; M>-. William Oxley:
MissKi lingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers ;
Mr. J. N. T. Mathese; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr.
W. Lindsay Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other
ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom,
10s. lOd.; in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane. St. Paul's-churchyard, E. C.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lind nstrasse. Florence : Signor G. Parisi,
Via Della Maltonia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples : British Re ding Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne : 96, Russel-street. Shanghai : Messrs. Kelly and
’Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophiml Journal
Office. Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours
of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all Week-days, except Sat¬
urday, when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and
6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR JUNE.
Monday, 16f A—FobtitightIiV Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Last of the Season- Paper, “ Review of the
Session.” By the Rev. W. Stainton Moses
M.A.
Friday, 20th.—Library Committee at 6 p.m.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akeeman Road, Bbixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books
on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
THE ALPHA;
Ob, the Fibst Pbinciple of the Human Mind;
A Revelation, but no Mystery. .With Spiritual Advent and
Steel Portrait of the Amber, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages,
piice 3s. 6d.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”—
Athenaeum.
“It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and logic
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most' remarkable productions ever given to
the world.”—Cosmopolitan,
Also just published, with engraving of the Author, 470 pages,
price 3s. 6d.,
THE RELIGION OF LIFE,
As EXEMPLIlTBn BY JESUS CHEIST.
A series of Lectures by the Author of " Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Price Five Shillings.- Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris,
Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Au¬
thor of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism and Therapeutics,”
awarded by the Milan Society for the Promotion of Science,
Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury,
London.
BIRKBEOK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton.buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Honrs from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 till 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars' on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCRGFT, Manager.
PRIVATE EDUCATION IN GERMANY—
One or two pupils can find a comfoitable home and
carefnl instruction in English, foreign languages, mathe¬
matics, &c., under the care of a Private Tutor in Wiesbaden.
Address—Mr. G. Wiese, A.K.C., 2, Kapellen Str., Wies¬
baden, Germany.
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Squa/re, London, W.
President—Mb. Sebjbant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro*
motion of psychological science In all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent,
that move and direct the material mechanism of man. Com¬
munications as to alleged phenomena are invited by the
Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings with¬
out subscribing to or recognising any particular theory or
belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thonsand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbdbnbb & Co. London.
Cloth, small 8vo., price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use iu the
divine economy for all varieties of men and women; and
that there is not any one, however perverse or insignificant,
who is not created for some function in universal humanity.
As to the question of everlasting punishment, Mr. White
maintains an original position. If asked whether he believes
in the everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers, Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he answers.
No. AH the confusion, perplexity, and anguish which exist
as to the future life arise from the constant assumption that
the everlasting punishment of sin is identical with the ever¬
lasting existence of sinners. Sin or transgression has been,
is, and ever will be eternally punished; torment and misery
are everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing; and pre¬
cisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or
later,' cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility of
everlasting sinners.
E. W. Alien, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
EAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions
of events and the weather f6r every month, &c., &c., with a
large hieroglyphic. Post free. 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lanca¬
shire .quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the
British armaments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by
which any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth
gilt, 3s. .
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Annali DELLO SPIRITISMO in
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filatete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly
Journal devoted to the investigation of the unexplained
phenomena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakov,
and contributed to by several German and foreign men or
science. Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutzb.
London : The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the
city, by an English brother. The apartments can,'only ac¬
commodate four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3
per week each; or, for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two
occupy one room. Address, S.T., care of M. A. Mallett, 3,
Rue de la Cossonerie, Paris.
A SELECT CIRCLE, holding Seances for
physical manifestations once a week, requires a few
more members—especially ladies. For particulars, apply to
R. S. T., care of Miss Burka 8, Great RusSall-street, W.O.
11
TH’E SPXBITUALI8T.
June 20, 1879.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Pbesidemt.
Alex. Calder. Esq..,l, Hereford-square, South Kensington^
S.W. , ) |/
Vice-Presidents.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-yillas, Upper Norwood.
Mtz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-streefc, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E.,' 6, Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jehcken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-
buildings, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13,
Alexandra-road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park,
W.
 Council. 
A dsbead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas. I, P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, Fij libacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A'., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dankeld-street; Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, CornWall-gardenS, Queen’s gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., ]ate of H.M.Si “ Malabar,’’ Portsmouth.
Cro^aiid,' Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road,
Blackheath, S.E,.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 5, Portman-street. Portman-square, W.
Dodd,; J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.,.7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs;, r59, TufhelLpark-roa.d, Holloway, N.W.
Enoi J. C.f Silver House; Champioh-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-GeraJd, Mrs. 1). G., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road-, New Southgate,'N..
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shdoter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square,
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Hart., Latnpart-hall, Northampton.
Lamont,-John, 199,- London-road, Liverpool.-
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower street, W.Q. *
March, R.'A., Heaton Villas, 71, Greenwood road, Dalston.
Miail, Rev.. W., 71, Richmond road, Dalston.
Morse, J.- Jv, Elm Tree terrace, Uttoxeter road.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
NoSWOrthy, Mrs.,14, Cavendish ro&d, Blundel Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, Lanarth House, Holder’s-hill, Hendon,; N.
Pearson, 0., 15, Harpur street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgill, W.C,, 3, Blandford square, N.W. , ,
Reimers, Christian, 47, Momington road, Regent’s park.
Stock,*St; George, M. A., 8, Museum Villas,-Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs, M., 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolf crescent, Maida vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen"Ann street, Cavendish
square, W-r„ r ■ - i
White, J,, MeanwoOd Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.Al. LIi.M., care of_A.; Calder, Esq., 1,
Hereford square. West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Onne square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alek. 'Calder, !Esq.,. 1, Hereiford square. South Kensington,
;s!.w.
Auditobs. ,.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. MorcllTheobold, Esq.
' Sbcbetabt.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbury,: ,2
: London, W.O.
Honobabt qb Cobbespondino Membebs.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuohtenberg, St.
' ’ "Petersburgh, Russiar   ——~
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd,
Capoussou, Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at
Posth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach,
Styfia, via Gratz, Austria.
The BaronessGueldenstubb; 29, Rue dfe Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguefa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
The Baron von Dirchinck-Holmield, Pinneherg, Holsiein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1. Reich Strassg. Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden,’Germany;
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi. Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria,
j, M. Peebles, Esq.,Hammonton, AtlanticCo., New. Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L.V. Richmond, New York; H.S. A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Treeorerie, WimiHe, Boulogne-sur-
-Mer.;,- . T'r^r-Trr*?
Bobob.Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Haydinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.&.A.qt
A. J.Rik6,Esq.,Oude, Molstraat.The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Melbourne.
Professor-Friedrioh Zollner-,-Leipzig, Germany. x.—.
Dr, Maximilian Party, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland!
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg
University, Germany.
W. Lindqsay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 81,
Russell-street, Mel&oiime, Viotoria, Anstralia; ■
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany,
W.H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, South Melbourne,
-Victoria, Austra ia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Reu Neuve, des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy,
I, Paris,
Epes Sergent^JIsq,, Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
Ill T. ChRd, Esq., M.D., 634,, Rape-street, Philadelphia,
S. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New
York, U.S.A
M. Leon Favre, Clavairo'z, Consul-General de France, Villa
■ Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.SA.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J;Murray Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Phila¬
delphia, U.SA.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.SA. g* ■
J. H.Gledstanes, Esq./Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de
' 1’Europe, Paris. .
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck,
Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rne de Palais, 137, Scbaerbeck, Lex-
Bmxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Teat, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cavuga Co., New York,
U.S.A. ;
Comte de Bullet, Hotel del’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-
square, London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste,
Anstria.      
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon. ■ xi
IsaacB. Rich. Esq.,-9, Mbntgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue SL Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah,U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eporjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, BClgrave road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Cbiaje,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr, J. H.f Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near
Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Berks T. Huchinson,'Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavillion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H, J, Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies‘
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Uniofl Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fitz,
121, Rue de Louvain, Brnssels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Seo.—H. E. Fr-ices,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Bnxton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M.
Anton Prochaszka, Josefstaadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse,
23,,Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association’ of Enquiries into Spiritualism. Hon.
Secretary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society; Hon. Sec.—Mr. A. J. Smart, 22,
Moira-place—Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola Cerventes, 34, 28, Madrid.
President—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Maxicana. Presi¬
dent—-Senpr Refugio T Gonzalez, 7, Calle deAlmedo,
Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Columbia, South America.
President—Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET,: BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading room and library, with a secre¬
tary in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries.
Seances can be attended, by recommendation from a member.
For terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Price 5s. 6d."
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of Truth
—III. The Embarkation:—IV. Kepler’s Vision—V. Love
and Latin—VI. The Song .of the North—VII. The Burial of
Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda —IX. The
Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope for
the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The Eagle of
Freedon—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII.
“ Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX
I still Live”—XX. Life—XXI. Love-XXII. “Fora’ that”
—XXHL Words o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle
or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXI X. The
Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price
6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C., Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
-]\/rEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
1 Vi VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation fot those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. ' Price Id.; Post free for l|d.; or six copies post free for
6d.
BRIGHTON.-—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.George’s-rd.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during altera¬
tions in the q,bove premises is 13, Millman-street, W.O.
(corner of New Ormond-street).
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE, LONDON,
W.O.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN, 
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses in
London or the provinces. Address, 92, Caroline St., Notting¬
ham.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and
. Healing Medium. Any form of Mediumship deve-
1 oped. Ladies and children healed by Mesmerism. Terms
according to circumstances. Days and hoars of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from
1 p.m. to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow Of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorerwho went, in search of Sir John Frank¬
lin, gives seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-
square, from 2 to 6, every day -except Sunday, and every
evening from 8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engage¬
ments can be made by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Handwriting, Photos* or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. fid. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Gurative mesmerism.—professor
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients, and may be consulted daily
from 2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment. « r
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and age re¬
quired. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism, Specialities.
At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients treated at their homes
when desired. 99, Park-street, Grosvenor-sqnare,London, W.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPITITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shriek from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It
shows (we think successfully) that every form of medium-
ship, now so familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed byBiblioal
records of identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, ^consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrow¬
ing parents.
SpwituaUst Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: the oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Golby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac
B. Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor ; aided by
a large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical, and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c. &o. Terms of subscription, in ad¬
vance, 166. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London,.W.O.
YJOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodgings on
JD moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E, Newman, II, St. Micbael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
A LADY, lately returned from abroad, desires
a EE-ENGAGEM&NT as JpESIDENT GOVERNESS
Address—N. D., 12, Ndrth-patfade, Horsham,
J[ nf fi J’ljogrijss of ^jeih;b aitf[ ^ll|U[$ of ^|th|titt(tIbiit.
No; 356.—VotujviE 'Fourteen ;; Number Twenty-five, ' toa
L ON DON, FRIDAY, J ONE 2 Othr 1 8m l *
THE LIFE OE RANSOM *
BY JAMBS A. CAMPBELL, PB.ESIDENT OP THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY SOCIETY
POR PSYCHOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION.
“ To give His life a ransom for many.”
Forgive me if to-night my paper is not as clear, as full,
as carefully expressed as I desired that it should be ; for this
week my thoughts have been so fully occupied with necessary
things, and I have been in so much bodily paiti, that I have
been altogether unable to devote my leisure time as I had
desired to do to arrange in order the many things which I
had to say upon a subject, the study of which is so fascinating,
and, as I believe, so useful to mankind. I have done my
best, however, at both thinking and setting in order my
thoughts in a short two days; and for the result of work
done in unavoidable haste I ask your indulgence. I pass,
then, to what youf desire me to talk about—namely, that
strange, subtle influence of one human creature upon another,
which, from its supposed discoverer, has received the barbarous
and unbeautiful name of Mesmerism.
None of us, I think, can be unaware of the perfectly un¬
accountable way in which people aflect us at first sight; we
know nothing of their character, their appearance has perhaps
been almost unnoticed by us, and yet they affect us—we know
not why—with like or dislike ; they attract, we say, or repel
us; they exercise what we call influence upon us—the very
word implying the idea of some unexplainable, incompre¬
hensible passing of their life into ours. We describe the
nature of this inflowing life when we talk of an attractive or
repulsive influence. On some natures these impressions or in¬
pressings are made more easily than on others. Some people
are susceptible, or easily pressed up; excitable, or easily moved
forward. Some people are independent, and do not get lifted
by others unless they happen to come to the gallows, and are
immovable unless driven on by a cat-and-nine-tails and its
palpable impulsion. But there was never a man (I venture
to be positive) whom another human being has never affected
in any way; who is able to say with truth, “ I never loved”
— or hated — and I hope that for us here the power of
being delightfully disturbed in a perfectly simple, unreason¬
able manner has not been driven out by unholier absorption;
and that with a heart of flesh, that I pray God may never be
deadened into iron or trampled into clay, we can still join
pleasantly in that sweet Scottish lilt that tells of a quaint,
old-fashioned attraction, confessing frankly its unreasonable¬
ness :—
“I cannot tell ye what she’s like,
Nor any more about her.
But that it’s life to be wi’ her,
. And death to be without her.”
In apposition and opposition to this I will put another verse,
describing the equally incomprehensible nature of repul¬
sion :—
“ I do not like you. Dr. Fell!
The reason why I cannot tell,
But this I know full well,
I do wot like you. Dr. Fell.”
This is a nasty feeling. I wish we weren’t repelled from
people; but as we are we may as well say so as shortly as
possible, not lingering over the matter. All I want to insist
on is, that the attraction in this case is not caused by the
ravishment of a small waist and a straight nose, nor the
repulsion by the terrors of Greek grammar and the birch rod.
So, then, T have gone to the root of the matter—-the
common feelings which we possess as men, which we cannot
explain on physical principles or restrain on pietistic ones;
if you try to do either you have, in the one case* to account
for Abelard and Heloise, David and Jonathan, on the principle
* A paper read Before the Cambridge Uiriveraity Society for Psychological InTestigation. ■
f The paper had been announced as “ Thoughts on Mesmerism.” '9 r
|| that every atom attracts every other, which apparently ceases
I to be the ease when the atoms grow and become flesh and
I blood; in the other, you may .make up your mind to a future
explosion of force, which by its violence may perhaps teach
| you that there is nothing uMusable for good in this universe
| of the dear God—our Factor, our Father, our beginning and
| our end. libBooi/b o U 3o iitsfyi oni *
Granted,. then, the existence of this mysterious influence,
I let us try if we may to obtain some rational notion of what it
is and how it may be used for gOoJ—the two inquiries which
| we ought to make concerning: everything which the fates may
| bring under our notice. If you will be kind enough to refer
Ito my paper read before this Society at the end of last term
and now lying on the table, you will find that I there allude
to the ancient Eastern, view of the nature and constitution of
man in its tripartite division;into Jp(iy, sow4 and spirit. The
wisdom of the ages gave its sanction to that view, and it was
adopted almost universally until modern imbecility and
modern impertinence discovered that all things made them¬
selves, and that their fathers were a pack ,of unenlightened
11 old fools who knew nothing and believed everything. When-
<j ! ever, then, I speak or write on these questions(of^psychology
> | please understand that I accept.thie yiew.;: I have in that paper
M endeavoured to define clearly >what ;I meant by the, terms I
h used. Allow me to remind you-of these definitions. By
) i soul I mean force resident in' a structure finer than our senses
\! can now perceive ; by spirit I mean the God-spark, the divine
\\ reason which abides within us, making us,rational inen and
j| women. I will now add to these definitions another which
/1 will make clearer to you my thpughk this evening. By
11 mesmerism (I use the word for lack of a better) I mean soul
(| projected by spirit, in its power well-nigh almighty. If you
j i will study the book I recommended to you last Sunday night*
(| (I allude to it as a convenient one for reference) you will, find
> j that this power of projecting Soul-force is as old as mankind;
yi that it was known in the East ages and ages before the
) j Christian era, and is known and used there now; and the Indian
j | theory concerning it is simple enough—all things material,
)j they say, exist primarily in the divine mind ; they postulate
(j eternal spirit and ether. Please mark that, because modern
)| “science” postulates also the second but not the first—from
l j ether, or atomic structure, energized by spirit, they say, came
)| matter and the tangible world; therefore, everything: exists
(j primarily as atomic structure, secondarily as material struc-
)l ture, and every thing and every person is surrounded by an
(| atmosphere of soul not yet moulded into individual structures.
; I Now, man, since he possesses the divine sparky or reason, has
(j - control over soul-force and can u^ it,:.even as God in the
) I beginning used it in creating: the universe. He can project it
j i by his will and cause changes in: the atomic structure or
Ii souls of other living, things; he; can, ijf fils will is sufficiently
| developed, even cause the atomic atmosphere to concentrate
| into particular form as he wills. ; •
N ow, as. man can concentrate the ether, surrounding him,
| he can also project upon plants or organised beings, and
! produce actual effect upon them ; - and this projection of life-
| force upon a human being we call mesmerising him.. The
| primary reason of mysterious attraction or repulsion of men
to and from each other, then, is this le-Your organised atomic
structure—your soul—has a certain definite inffuenc.e() Qa the
I soul-atmosphere surrounding; you, anet|her person’s soul has
a similar influence on the particles surrounding him;.; you
| meet that person, and the lines of particles arranged by your
) | / organism in the, sphere surrounding you , either fit into the
II lines.of particles arranged by his organism or dp not do so—
u you haye, then, attraction or , the Teypr^n : ;
These theories are perfectly rationab are founded on sober
| facti, and are in the main, ]L believe, .tEuei. . - r . . da; *
* Isis Unveiled (Blavatsky). A good book marred l^YNibla&iAtioii'aad'bJlotry; oi
I'HE SPlRITtfALIST.
June 20, 1879.
290
I tried to convince you a little while since that these if
attractions or repulsions were perfectly unaccountable on any | /
external hypothesis; but you will say to me, “ What! do I jjg
not know why I like a girl ? Lovely in form and feature, i
who but a demon would not love her ?” Yes; but, my friend, j (
go further. I do not deny the blessed law of attraction j
between one sex and the other; but yoic think of blue eyes and j (
a wealth of ripe-corn hair as your ideal loveliness; to your i /
friend rose-tinted cheek and raven hair are more glorious; | \
and, ah! heaven, alas! to you both a waist pinched like a j)
wasp’s makes a figure more beautiful. j (
Believe me, there is loveliness in all things under heaven, j ?
exquisite loveliness of fair form and glorious colour; but | (
believe me, too, that the life-force of yours which, draws you |)
towards certain characters of loveliness more than towards ! (
others is the result of the life-condition of your own structure, | /
and in great measure the result of the direction of your icill, | (
and the larger will of society, which controls yours. We come, j)
then, to the voluntary projecting of this life-force—the mode j \
of doing which had been lost to the West until Mesmer j)
re-discovered it for us in the end of the last century. He it h
was who, meditating on'the use of will, made known to us i)
once more its marvellous and protean power; he found that I j
by intense exercise of will and by the making of certain passes | (
with his hands over another, he could, after a time, control |)
him entirely—-his affection, his thought, even his bodily i <
movement. The studies of Mesmer were followed and enriched \)
by the discoveries of Esdaile, Reichenbach, Deleuze, and last, I (
not least, the venerable Baron Du Potet, of Paris, who taught j [
me two years ago the process of mesmerism as used by him. j (
Do you see how gigantic this discovery was ? Do you see |)
how it proved that the connection between brain and muscle i (
was indeed through this vito-electric, odic force (it has had j j
a hundred names given it), since, without contact, without | (
word of mouth, Mesmer found that he could direct the n
motions of another man at a distance miles apart, when the j (
control was complete. This was done by him again and again, j)
and it has been done since by hundreds of other men here, j (
and through countless ages before in the far East.
I will take in order now the effects which I have mentioned ! \
and which I have myself produced: Entire change in the i /
whole feelings of the subjects, change of their opinion upon all j (
points, change of the appearance to them of ordinary objects j)
—a house becoming a plant to them, and the boot-black an !)
angel—control over every limb of the subject, and paralysis ; /
of the whole or a part of his body at the will of the j(
mesmerizer, with utter insensibility to physical pain. May ! /
I give you an instance or two ? j (
The son of a kind friend of mine possessed as his chief \\
characteristics an utter aversion to work of every kind—an IS
utter selfish disregard of all the wishes and all the love of his i)
father and mother. He simply cared to amuse himself and |)
gratify his passions; the day was spent on the sofa reading i (
novels, and the night God knows where. He asked me j)
one day to mesmerize him, and I thankfully consented, say- j (
ing, “Yes; I will make another man of you.” He laughed j)
well at me, but I knew my subject and I persevered. His ||
father said to me six months afterwards, “ You have done for I;
my boy what I and his mother never could do; you have set j (
his will straight and helped him to be a man. The change | /
that has taken place I should not have dared to hope for.” j (
That is a little piece of egotism and autobiography, but I I)
cannot help telling you, it made me so happy at the time. I <
Here is something much more valuable from the life-history j j
of Baron Du Potet. Some years ago he was called to a distant j (
part of France to see a woman dying of internal tumour of j
long years’ standing. The baron went to the side of her bed, | <
sat down and laid his hand upon the place where the vile sore | <
had swelled her poor side to a fearful size. No result that day j(
or the next—for many days no result. The old man was getting |,
very weary of his daily six hours’ work, but at last, when j1
his heart had almost failed, he felt the tumour give under I!
his hand, and he went home rejoicing. But, not to speak of 11
such trifles as these—you can do more with mesmerism. A j)
friend tells me he saw* Madame Card, the well-known K
conjuress, bring up on the platform, here in Cambridge, a | j
* Such abominable misuse of a wondrous power for good cannot be too severely condemned, j)
and the visits to Cambridge of this lady mesmerist have, I am thankful to say, ceased, owing i'
to the interference of authority.
well-to-do and burly farmer, mesmerize him and make him
stand on one leg and swing the other—swing till, by the
forward impetus, he fell off the stage, and lay on the floor
kicking; he lay there for long, too, for the mesmerizer
laughed too much to recover him. You see you can heal
moral sores, physical sores, and make men kick. Who
would not be a mesmerist ?
I have sought to show you that the whole secret of mes¬
merism lies in the power of the will; to a will carefully
trained, rightly directed, nothing is impossible. But till we
can rule ourselves, how hopeless it is to try and rule others.
Think what it is to be able to throw one’s life-force upon
another man, to strengthen his weakness, to direct his life, to
make him more noble and more pure—to give your life a
ransom for him ; but that can never be unless you have life
yourself to give. Think what it is to be allowed to impart
your actual physical strength to one who is suffering, to
renew for him his shattered form, to build up in him the
goodly strongholds which sin or suffering had thrown down;
think what it is to be able, when one who is dearer to you
than life is racked with pain, to give him calm, blessed
sleep with a few passes of your hand. Think of these things,
and you will realize what we so constantly hear talked about
—the work of Jesus Christ. He came to give His* life a
ransom for us, not by appeasing the wrath of an offended
God, not by presenting a perfect example, but by pouring
into us a higher life, by filling us with His all-glorious, all¬
holy personality; He heals our soul-sickness, He gives strength
to our weakness, He governs and lifts us up if we will trust
Him for ever. Which of us does not know the helpfulness
of dwelling with a noble man ? how it takes us into a different
atmosphere, how his life seems to become part of ours, and
we feel thankful for beingf lifted heavenwards in those
strong arms; that is the infusion of a beautiful life-
force which makes us feel refreshed and stronger to go
forward. Then, may we not make some real use of
this life of ours for the physical and spiritual lift¬
ing up of the world ?—better than all the medicine,
the human force; better than all the preaching, the human
sympathy. Hale, whole, healthy, holy, saved — they all
mean the same thing; making a man whole—saving him—is
giving him a better life than he has already got in soul and
body. That is what Christ gave His life for—gives His life for
now—can we do better with ours ? “ Helping lame dogs over
stiles” is a glorious work, and in that work mesmerism,
rightly used, will help us not a little. We talk of disease as if
it were a natural thing. It is not so; it is entirely, horribly
unnatural;—the life-force does not flow to a part of the body,
the blood does not circulate—nothing works easily, rightly.
If you are a strong man, go and supply that life-force, fill the
empty vessel from the full one; give the man life, and ease
will return to him. Or the illness may be in the mind—the man
can’t think clearly, can’t feel rightly ; he has used up his
vitality in miserable indulgence. You have a purer mind than
he, a more happy imagination. Go to him in God’s name and
give him of your treasure, make him one with yourself, and he
will begin to think, to feel differently. Get life from some one
better than yourself—from mortal, from spirit, from the Lord—
and then give, give!—give as He did! The virtue that passes to
you from the pressure of a good man’s hand, from his presence
in the room, is different in degree, not in kind, from what
went forth to the poor sick woman from the Lord and gave
her life.
Before I end, one more use of mesmeric power, in helping
us to love truly; for I think that if Spiritualism and mesmer¬
ism help us in anything they do so in solving the intricate
problems that are now troubling some as to the nature and
office of love. You cannot love any really unless you are
on the same spiritual plane with them. You cannot see God
till you are pure in heart. You love intensely, earnestly, some
above you, below you ; you feel that their life is not yours,
that they cannot feel as you feel; they long to and cannot.
Mingle your life with theirs; mesmerize them for a time daily
—get them on a common spiritual level with yourself, or let
* Symbolised by the red heart’s blood, so touchingly and so vainly, to the dull mater al-
ism of modem Christianity.
f An interference with the, liberty of the subject, who is taught to object to being lifted by
any one, and to depend entirely on his own exertions. But I never leamt political economy,
and always liked being carried when I could; and as to my own exertions, I don’t think they
ever did much for me, whereas those of my nurse in pick-a-pack and whipping were very
valuable.
June 20, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
291
them raise you to theirs. If you are patient you will succeed,
and on the other side your united life will go on blissfully
through the eternal evermore—one, then, one for ever, never
to be parted more. A consolation that for disconsolate lovers !
I was telling my views on this question to a friend the other
day, and he replied to me thus :—
“ Gin a spirit meet a spirit
Going through the Styx;
Gin a spirit meet a spirit
Need those spirits mix ? ”
Yes! where they love; yes, finally, when they all shall be
one. • ’ '■■■;-' i|4
There is necessity, believe me, for using all the life we have
for help in this filthy, this cold, dismal age, when every man’s
hand is against every man’s—stretched out, not for help but
for enmity. I am sorry I have not used mine better, sore at
heart about it, as I think of leaving this place I love so
dearly. I am tired of this miserable existence which is called
life. I am going to begin to try to live; to try and get
others to live, not in the shells of things, but in their realities
in the love of God and man, not in damned cant and compe¬
tition. May all those better than myself give me of their
life to help me, and I will do my best to give of my poor
life to any one I can help, body or soul. Will those of true
heart come and help me ?—leaving this stifling plain, climb
with me the everlasting hills and breathe a purer air. Hand
in hand we shall help the world better, a strong phalanx of
earnest men—and then we shall believe not only in the
psalm-singing of the churches and the nostrums of the
chemist’s shop, but we shall receive and give forth a blessed
life, from the dear God, “ who forgiveth all our iniquities, who
healeth all our diseases, who redeemeth our life from being
strawed about."
MEDIUMSHIP.
A little pamphlet, entitled Spiritualistic Sanity, by Miss S.
E. Gay (London: E. W. Allen), has just been published in
reply to Dr. Forbes Winslow’s Spiritualistic Madness. It ig
full of useful information for those who are not Spiritualists,
and from it the following remarks relating to mediumship
are extracted:—
“ I must now reply to that important part of Dr. Forbes
Winslow’s pamphlet which refers to the relation of medium-
ship and health. The facts I have given prove the drain on
the vital forces which takes place during the exercise of physical
mediumship, and frequent trances undoubtedly tend to ex¬
haust the nervous system.* It must be remembered, however,
that only a certain proportion of Spiritualists are actual
mediums; and I think no one acquainted in the least degree
with the literature of Spiritualism—which is very extensive
—will attempt to say that a belief in it as a fact could exercise
any possible influence injurious to a ‘ sound mind in a sound
body.’ It is pre-eminently practical, and, compared with the
exciting visions and horrors conjured up by revivalists and
narrow-minded churchmen, radiant in its main outline with
common-sense. It is no less true also that the anxieties and
sorrows consequent on sickness and bereavement have been
entirely removed by a knowledge of Spiritualism, which has
restored many to mental and bodily health. Mediumship, j >
however, it must be conceded, is injurious to persons of ex- \)
citable temperament, vicious life, or weak mind ; and such as j j
are unfit for the exercise of a responsible and sacred gift, j(
render themselves undoubtedly liable by the laws of both iv
worlds to pay a severe penalty. The statistics of Dr. Crowell, | j
of New York, show, however, that Dr. Forbes Winslow has
greatly over-estimated insanity among Spiritualists. From a k
tabular statement published on his authority, I find that out j)
of upwards of 23,000 insane persons, now or recently con- \\
fined in fifty-eight institutions, 412 are reported insane from j)
religious excitement, and only fifty-nine from excitement \l
caused by Spiritualism, or about one to each institution. | j
The testimony of several leading Spiritualists is to the same \l
effect; and among many medical men quoted by Dr. Crowell, i)
all of whom testify to the small proportion of insane Spirit- | (
* It is only fair to state that there are numerous cases of healing and preservation of ; (
health during the exercise of mediumship, by spirit-power. This question, however, is one ! (
of statistics, and I would suggest that some physician, who is also a Spiritualist, should j (
collect faets, with a view to demonstrating that the balance strikes in favour of health, as I /
I have every reason to believe. 1 <
ualists, one, Dr. Ray, a well-known authority in medica
( jurisprudence, thus expresses himself: ‘It is to be regretted
|] that the prevalent tendency is to ignore them (the facts of
si Spiritualism) entirely, rather than to make them a subject of
I scientific investigation.’ The Lancet of May 10th, 1877,
§ admits the validity of the refutations of Dr. Forbes Winslow’s
II statement; and Dr. Tuke, in Insanity and its Prevention*
) i says, ‘ Careful inquiry has happily disproved it, and we
(| learn that the amount of insanity produced from this cause
II is almost insignificant—much less than that caused by re-
| ligious excitement.’
“ I cannot leave this point without uttering a protest against
Dr. Forbes Winslow’s wholesale condemnation of public
1 mediumship, and expressing my sympathy with those genuine
; professional mediums whom I know to exist, and who suffer
acutely from perpetual contact with persons ignorant alike
I of the facts of Spiritualism, the conditions necessary for
(\ spirit-manifestations, and, I may add, occasionally the ordi-
(| nary laws of courtesy. Even when giving successful stances
) | these unfortunate beings have to submit to tests which are in
\f themselves a slur on their honesty; and however desirable it
)!, may be to impose strict tests, they do not of course conduce
\ \ to either the health or the happiness of the medium employed.
) | Physical mediums have been tied up in bags, nailed to the
(j floor, stripped of their clothing, had their arms encased in
(| leather gauntlets, their hands and feet held, their coat-sleeves
I stitched to their coats, and their hands tied with cords to
11 chairs. That some professional mediums have imposed on
)! careless persons by supplementing genuine mediumship by
(| trickery, is no more a proof that all are impostors than the
)| existence of quacks, unscrupulous attorneys, or immoral
(! clergymen, proves the non-existence of honest men in the
) j medical profession, the law, or the church. No cause is with-
(j out its Judas, and the genuine medium has to suffer in large
) I proportion to the small amount of imposture exposed.
11 Stringent tests cannot be too greatly insisted on as the only
> I means by which worthless men may be precluded from simu-
<| | lating some of the phenomena of physical mediumship ; but
) | the very fact of requiring a man, often with little or no
11 means, to give up his time and health to the public, and to
; I run the gauntlet of offensive and unreasonable criticism, is
\j surely a sufficient title to a small remuneration, which is tri-
) | fling compared to the sums daily paid to a fashionable phy-
\j sician for very often simply repeating the advice of a local
51 practitioner. Often the professional medium is to be found
\ i giving his stance for nothing to a person whom he has been
(j forewarned will not pay him; and one failure out of a score
(| of successes is quite sufficient to raise a cry from persons who
} | have attended a seance for the first time in their lives, that
(| the medium is an impostor, although their ignorance of the
) | subject is such that the very name of ‘ spirit ’ is a synonym
| i for a joke, and a subject for sneers and titters. When he is
) | successful, as is almost always the case with quiet and sensible
investigators, there comes the wearisome pseudo-scientific
jargon about thought-reading, mesmerism, magnetism
diseased cerebral action, hysteria, unconscious muscular action,
unconscious cerebration, theorematic dreams, psychic force,
somnambulism, action of the ganglionic system, abnormal
nervous excitement, &c., &c. In all justice-—in all fairness,
this poor ‘ labourer is worthy of his hire ’! !*
Dr. Locander has returned from Italy to Paris.
Last Thursday evening Mr. W. Eglinton sat as a non-professional
medium at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s circle. Nothing of special public
interest took place.
Although little in connection with Spiritualism is now taking place in
public in London, a great deal is going on privately, and the movement is
making much progress in society.
Eor a long time there has been a great scarcity of mesmerists in London.
Can any reader furnish us with the addresses of some who have sensitives
available for the purposes of experimental research ?
The new branch office of The Spiritualist will be at 33, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London. The heaviest part of the publishing work will, as
usual, be carried on in the City.
Mr. James Campbell, in one of his admirable memoirs printed upon
another page, describes how he applied mesmerism to the cure of a defective
character, which is higher work than its application to the healing of a
defective body.
* Insanity and its Prevention. Dr. Daniel Hack Tnke, F.R.C.P. (Macmillan and Go.)
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 20, 1879.
.292
THEIPIIYSICAIj’ CONDITIOSJ 'Oi1 MISS PANCHER, THE Ui I
f o;r A i l GLAIRVOYANTE.; wM . I
The physical condition of1 Miss Mollie Fancher, the sleep- 111®
less and fasting girl ofBrdoklyn, whose wonderful clairvoyant 111
powers were recently described .in these pages, is thus set ] |||
forth; in a letter, tp a lady by her former preceptor,-the Rev. ||j\
Dr. C. E. West,' of Brooklyn Heights Seminary, JNew \K
Yorh ;df'-aicii’ beonho'jq' ’{liiT-neiri lo enooma-rrr«el ||
“ You request me to! W^rite a brieF sketqh of Miss Mollie j||
Fancher in; answer to the many inquiries which have doubt- !);
less been made by those who have examined the beautiful Mi
specimens of her needlework whiOh have' been sent to your 111
loan exhibition, which were wrought during a most extra- | (|
ordinary illness of more than twelve 5^^ duration. To give j (!
anything like an adequate account of this remarkable girl m
would require a treatise.. ^ This I cannotattempt. “ ■ 1 • ; !||
“ Miss Mary J. Fahcher was born in Attleboro’, Mass., Aug. I |
16th /1848,: and was edhca4ted at the Brooklyn Heights Semin- j (|
ary under my fcare. She was a sweet girl, of delicate m
organization and; nervous temperament, and was highly es- jj |
teemed for her pleasing manners and gentle disposition. She m
AVas an excellent scholar, excelling in belles lettres studies ; but ; (j
her delicate health led tb her removal from school a short time |) |
before the graduation of her class in 1864. For three years j|j
I lost sight of her, till I learned from a Brooklyn paper of m
her singular condition,/which resulted from a remarkable |(|
accident.';;" r ,bn:oigftOiCV.q i.'Ui V'.H'.U ! !
“ Her aunt sooh after called and invited me to visit * Mollie/ ! (i
as she is familiarly called. I did so, March 4th, 1867, and j)j
from that time iihtil the present I have been an intimate m
visitor of the family. I have kept a journal of my visits, and i /;
noted all that Was important which came under my observa- i (i
tion. I have dsed all the sagacity I possess to discover any j/j
fraud or colltision; but I have never seen anything to excite m
my suspicion or niy confidence in her integrity. She is a |)|
lovely Christian girl, and shrinks from any public exhibition ! \ i
of herself. Spiritualists and curiosity-seekers have sought m
access to her, but have failed. The power of discriminating m
character is so great that she is rarely ever imposed upon. m
u The facts to which attention is called can be fully verified. | (|
They 'areas follows7 n v u!
“May 1 Of A, 1864.—She was thrown from a horse and jj
severely injured. ! in
“ June 8i5/i, 1865.—In attempting to leave a street-car her m
skirt caught, and she was dragged for a block over the pave- j) j
ment. ' ' ,'J'° Qao lau «nuii^nq/oit lii7r 1 m
“ 1866.—She was taken seriously ill. Her ner- ih
vous system was completely deranged* Her head and feet jjj
coming together^, she Would roll like a hoop. She would also m
stand on her toes and spin like a top. Several persons were jj;
required to prevent her from doing personal injury to herself, j (j
“ Feb. 8fA,—She went into a trance, and was, to all appear- jjj
a'ncC, dead. orno&nao'ir oifj eenroo €-i A] ^-loJegliaovni
i; u Feb. \7th.—She lost her eyesight. ! of |jj
“ Feb. 18«A —She lost her speech. j (j
“ Feb. 19^/^—She lost her hearing. jjj
“ Feb. 22nd.—-She saw, she spoke and heard for half an j(j
hour, and thenfor a. tirneishe lost these faculties. ijj
“ Feb. 2%nd.—She lost the sense of sound. ju
“Feb. 24dh.—The fingers clpsedv. _ . j jj
“Feb. 26th.—The jaws locked. ||j
“Feb.2Qth.—The legs took a triple twist. j j |
<< Jf«r^ 7^A.i-rThe spasms were violent. v x&i. »I |) j
“'May She- asked for food, ate a small piece of jjj
cracker, and took a teaspoonful of punch—it being the first j (j
food she had taken in seycn weeks and was able to retain jj
on her stomach. * ' ^
“May 27^.'—She was shocked by-thunder, and again lost jj
her speech.- od» sa.>3 ib eoa&oife&a dim m dmnnl
“ May 2$th.—She Went into- a rigid trance at 2.30 o’clock, j j
which lasted till li.d0, AvJil^-fbe next day. She then passed js
into a relaxed trance till June 1st. .r - . t , ; j j
“June 2nd.-—Is[ouri^liWi^D1; was forced by a pump into her jj
stomach, 1 which threw her into convulsions. She was un- jj
conscious and deathly sick with nausea, and suffered in- jj
tensely tilk_Sunday evening, June 3rd, when her throat jj
closed, and she was unable to take any nourishment or utter jj
a sound.
“These items are taken from the diary of Mollie’s aunt,
who made'a daily record of her condition. I have copied but
a few of them, to show the beginning of her remarkable
illness.
“ My first visit, as I have said, was March 4th, 1867. I
found her lying on her right side, with her right arm folded
under her head. Her fingers were clenched in the palm of her
hand, her thumb lying parallel with them. The thumb
and fingers of the left hand were in a similar position. The
right hand and arm were paralyzed, as was her body gene¬
rally, excepting her left arm. She was in a trance, sighed,
and seemed to be in pain. She remained in this trance till
the 8th, a shorter time than usual at this period of her illness,
her trances often lasting from ten to twelve days.
“ I find my letter is growing so large I must condense my
journal observations, and neglect any chronological order.
“ I will speak of her mental and physical condition.
“ 1. Her physical. For twelve years or more she has lain
in one position on her right side. For nine years she was
paralyzed, her muscles only relaxing under the influence of
chloroform. For the last three years she has been in a new
condition—-the limp instead of the rigid. Her muscles are so
relaxed that her limbs can be moved without the aid of chloro¬
form. While passing into this state her sufferings were in¬
tense. For days it did not seem possible that she could live.
Her eyes were open and staring. For nine years they had
been closed. How they were open and never closing day nor
night. They were sightless. She could swallow, but take no
food—even the odour of it was offensive. During these twelve
years’ illness there have been times when she had not the use
of any of her senses. For many days together she has been,
to all appearances, dead. The slightest pulse could not be de¬
tected; there was no evidence of respiration. Her limbs
were as cold as ice, and had there not been some warmth
about her heart she would have been buried. During all
these years she has virtually lived without food. Water, the
juices of fruits, and other liquids have been introduced into
her mouth, but scarcely any of them ever made their way to
her stomach. So sensitive has this organ become it will not
retain anything within it. In the early part of her illness it
collapsed, so that by placing the hand in the cavity her spinal
column could be felt. There was no room for food. Her
throat was rigid as a stick. Swallowing was out of the ques¬
tion. Her heart was greatly enlarged. Severe pains passed
from it through her left side and shoulder. With slight ex¬
ceptions she had been blind. When I first saw her she had but
one sense—that of touch. With that she could read with
many times the rapidity of one by eyesight. This she did by
running her fingers over the printed page with equal facility
in light or darkness. With the finger she could discriminate
the photographs of persons, the faces of callers, &c. She
never sleeps, her rest being taken in trances. The most deli¬
cate work is done in the night. She performs none of the
ordinary functions of life except breathing. The circulation
is sluggish, and as a consequence, there is very little animal
heat. She longs to die, but says she cannot, as there is
nothing to die. Such is a brief statement of her bodily
condition.
“ 2. To me her mental state is more extraordinary. Her
power of clairvoyance or second sight is marvellously de¬
veloped. All places in which she takes any interest are open
to her mental view. Distance imposes no barriers. No
retirement, however secluded, but yields to her penetrating
gaze. She dictates the contents of sealed letters which have
never been in her hands without the slightest error. She
visits the family circles of her relations and acquaintances in
remote places, and describes their attire and their occupations.
She points out any disorder of dress, however slight, as the
basting-thread in the sleeve of a sack which to ordinary sight
was concealed by the arm. Any article which has been
mislaid she sees and tells where it may be found. She dis¬
criminates in darkness the most delicate shades of colo ir with
an accuracy that never errs. She works in embroidery and
wax without patterns. She conceives the most beautiful
forms and combinations of forms. She never studied botany,
or took a lesson in wax-work, and yet she never mistakes the
forms of leaf or flower. Leaves, with their ribs or veins,
their phylotaxis; flowers with calyx, corolla, stamens with
their anthers are given with a most truthful regard to nature.
June 20, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
293
Holding a pen or pencil in her left hand she writes with extra¬
ordinary rapidity. Her penmanship is handsome and legible.
She once wrote a poem of ten verses in as many minutes—
her thought flowing with the rapidity of lightning. In
cutting velvet leaves for pin-cushions, like the sample sent
you, she held the scissors by the knuckles of thumb and fore¬
finger of the left hand, and bringing the velvet with thumb
and finger of her right hand, she cut the leaves, as shapely
and without ravel as though they had been clit with a punch.
These leaves do not differ in size or form more than leaves
growing on tree or shrub. In the early part of her sickness
she cut more than two thousand such leaves. In April, 1875,
she worked up 2,500 ounces of worsteds; to December, 1875,
she had written 6,500 notes and letters. She has kept an
account, of all the expenses of the family during her sickness.
She keeps a daily journal, except when in trances of longer
duration than twenty-four hours. In passing into the new
condition, three years ago, of which I have spoken, she forgot
everything that had occurred in the previous nine years.
When she was able to speak she inquired about matters that
occurred at the beginning of her illness—the nine intervening
years were a perfect blank to her.
“But I must take leave of this subject. The incredulous
will not accept it—and it is not surprising. Miss Fancher is
not to be judged by ordinary laws. The state is abnormal—
a species of modified catalepsy, which has deranged the
ordinary action of mind and body. It is a rich mine for
investigation to the physiologist and the psychologist; and
with them I leave the case., Charles E. West.”
THE SHAKERS.
Mr. A. Gr. Hollister, of Mount Lebanon, Columbia County,
U.S.A, has favoured us with ah interesting number of The
Shaker newspaper, in which is the following expression of
the views of that community in relation to dancing as a
religious exercise:—
“ ‘ Did God, or any one regarded as a teacher, command
dancing as an act of worship ? ’
“ My dear friend, there are some things, God be praised,
which men and women do without any commanding. Bowed
down by soTrow, tears are wrung froni our eyes; moved by
compassion, we weep over the sufferings of humanity. We
have seen whole assemblies carried away and crazed by glad
tidings of an earthly character; there were clapping of
hands, stamping of feet, tossing of hats, laughter, and even
sheddiilg of tears of joy, making a very Babel of noise, and
"creating such an excitement that it would have been dangerous
foT any one to have made manifest that he or she was not in
harmony with the all-pervading spirit of the hour. Could
any one fully united in the thankfulness of the occasion stand
coolly by and criticise the various modes employed to manifest
emotion that would not be controlled ? We tell you, Nayi 1
“ The idea that after God had bestowed upon us His richest
blessings, filling us with joy unspeakable, He should still find
it necessary to say, “I positively command you to rejoice,”
borders some little on the absurd.
“ The Israelites frequently employed dancing to show their
rejoicing for victories gained. The instances are so very
numerous that we will only give you references to the texts :
Jeremiah xxxi. 13, etc.; Exodus xvi. 20 ; Judges xi. 34; 1st
Samuel xviii. 6. We believe that these prefigured the re¬
joicing of the latter day, when people would rejoice in
deliverance from their own sins.
. “ Read especially in connection with texts above referred
to : Psalms xlvii. 1, and cxlix. 1st, 2hd, and 3rd verses.
“ Arid now, leaving the Old Testament, let us turn to the
New, and by way of Biblical answer, let us consider the
parable of the prodigal’s return. He confesses his sins and
begs his father’s forgiveness ; he is stripped of his old garb
and clothed with the new, a robe of purity and righteousness,
then ‘ music and dancing.’ But the elder son is not pleased.
Why ? Because these things had not been done for him. In
brief, to modernize the objection, ‘ they did not do so in the
Apostles’ day, hence it cannot be right.’ Let us be careful
not to take the place of this elder brother, and lose our union
with the father by refusing to rejoice with those who are
reclaimed. If it be pardonable in the exuberant expression
i of earthly joy to forget self—and who can deny th^t this is
done—how much more excusable are those who, being
delivered from the bondage of a fallen nature-—having re-
j) | turned to their Father—are led by His spirit ‘ to go forth in
m the dances of them that make merry.’ In conclusion, as I
||| have before said, ours is a new dispensation, and this is one
m of the customs, one of the modes of giving expression of
i)! joy unspeakable within, introduced by Ann Lee, and practised
|| | as good by her followers. Let us finally quote Franklin; and
! jjj here say, that neither in this mode of worship have we chosen
I‘the more easy, convenient, and pleasant’ worship !in the
eyes of the world. Can we not ask ourselves which requires
• the greatest sacrifice of self to perform—the dead, formal
worship of the world, or this in which hands, tongue, and
1 feet are all employed ? ”
There is an article in the same journal by Elder F, W.
Evans, who once visited England and spoke from Spifitual-
|| istic platforms. In explaining why the bulk of the French
i (! people are now so much better off, more happy, and more
I h comfortable than the bulk of the English, he says :—
“ In process of time, the Catholic Church held one-fifth of
] |;j the land in England. But, though the land was thus held by
i u comparatively few persons, the poor were not in very bad
[condition. The land was let on easy terms. Any one who
called at the castle of a lord, or at a religious house, was fed
with bread and beer—at least, all had enough to eat. There
were no taverns in those days—hospitality was the rule. The
I clergy, not having children, used the proceeds of the property
!| entrusted to their care, to a large extent, for the benefit of the
| poor. The Reformation gave the Protestant clergy possession
| of the property previously held by the Catholic Church, and from
I) j that time common people were debarred the enjoyment of any
| (| benefit resulting therefrom. The ecclesiastical revenues were
; I used for the aggrandizement of the upper classes of the Eng-
ijj lish hierarchy. The income which the lords of the church
ip derive to-day from property thus unjustly held from the
|P people is simply enormous. Thousands if not hundreds of
i /! thousands are compelled to live underground, as miners—a
| pj life of incessant toil, barely earning subsistence—degraded,
j down-trodden, abused, till life ceases to be desirable. I do not
m hold individuals responsible for these things. Itisthe in-
j) j evitable result of a vicious system. The Great Napoleon; by
! \! confirming the acts of the Revolution, added three millions of
] /1 land-holders to the French population. The result of that
| {i enlightened policy is that F ranee, not withstanding tremendous
i) | drains upon her resources in consequence of unsuccessful,
|'ij disastrous wars, is to-day the most prosperous-nation of
J! CURIOUS COINCIDENCES.
);! From “ Notes and Queries’.”
I The following seems worthy of insertion in. any collection of coinci
i dences:— .ZOoTiLjAD UTOJiI MAIiLH'iTI
. The Derbyshire Times states that the,elder brother of,the late William
Howitt (who died at Rome on Monday) expired at his residence, Heanor,
Derbyshire, on precisely the same day and'hour. His name was Erancis
j Howitt, and he lived in *• the old house at home,’ which is the subject of one
j of Mr. William Howitt’s poems.”
Hardly less curious as a coincidence is the opportune an-ival ot the above
I! scrap of print just now. I had just pasted my own cutting from the Pall
Mall Gazette into my scrap-book, and was commencing this communication
of the Howitt fact to you, in some vexation with myself for not having
I kept the print for you instead of giving myself the trouble of copying it.
At that moment a letter was brought to me from a correspondent who had
not written to me for a year, and who now sent me the printed scrap herein
pasted, without any knowledge that I was,a collector oisuch. coincidences.
To the above may be added a Communication from a friend who has lost two
y! brothers, both by drowning, at an interval of six years, each death happen-
| ing on a 1st of August. . j . . 0. C. M.
) I “ A few years ago I received a letter from a friend in New Zealand enclos-
l\ ing another letter, addressed to a person in Anglesea,. North Wales, which
(I he said he had found inside his Times newspaper (which I was in the habit
j j of sending him every month). The letter was stamped with the; penny
/ i postage stamp, but appeared never to have received any postal mark, so had
)! in some way evidently worked itself into the newspaper, and thus been mis-
jj! carried. I intended re-posting it ; but, on looking a second time, the very
uncommon name of the person to whose house it was (directed arrested my
)i attention as being a name recently mentioned by a rfiaidservant, who had
) I just come to live with me; and I then also noticed that the letter was directed
([ to a person bearing her name, but whichj beings very common one, had not
) j struck me at first. I; asked her a few; questions,, and found she had been
j! visiting a brother-in-law in Wales, and whilst Hliere.a letter had - been sent
<! to her, but never received, thCughinquiries had been made about it. This
294
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 20, 1879.
proved to be the missing letter, which, after straying to New Zealand, !) i
was sent back to England, and received at the very house where the i)i
owner was then residing, though at the time it was written to her we were ! (|
unknown to each other, and she had never been in Weymouth till she j l j
came direct from her home in Suffolk, not quite a month before, to live i) j
with me. This has always struck me as being a very curious coincidence. (/ i
“S.M. P. | j
** Weymouth,”  g - 1)^
A EORM-MANIFESTATION IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY- m
BY EPES SAEGENT. Kj
In the notes to Count Yon Auersperg’s poem, “ DerLetzte m
Ritter” (The Last Night), founded on incidents in the life of m
the Emperor Maximilian I., I find a curious account of a jlj
form-manifestation of the spirit of the Emperor’s wife, .Mary ji
of Burgundy. A spirited translation of the whole poem by m
my brother, John 0. Sargent, was printed in London, in m
1871, and handsomely acknowledged by Count Yon Auers- Hi
perg. From the 183rd page of this volume I copy the |;|
following note in the appendix :— |>j
“John Trittheim, an eminent historian and theologian, j)j
distinguished for his learning and piety, born in 1462, was ju
elected Abbot of Spannheim at the age of twenty years. ])|
Noblemen, prelates, men of letters, and princes from all parts : (|
of Italy, France, and Germany sought his society and j)j
conversation. , !j!
“But the very qualities which induced this homage Oj
exposed him to the charge of necromancy and sorcery; and j j I
Augustin Lorcheimer relates, in his Treatise on Magic, that j/j
Trittheim sought permission of the then Arch-Duke I \ j
Maximilian to bring the latter’s wife before him, whose In
death had driven the Arch-Duke almost to despair. Maxi- I \ i
milian consented, and retired to a private chamber with one |)!
of the principal gentlemen of his court and the magician, m
who forbade them on pain of death to utter a single word, j) I
Mary of Burgundy appeared to them in all her beauty, and i (|
arrayed in her usual fashion. Maximilian satisfied himself m
that there icas no illusion, and being no longer able to doubt m
that his wife was before him, he was seized with a sudden !) i
fright, and by his gestures commanded the magician to m
cause the phantom to disappear. Trittheim obeyed, and was j) i
forbidden to attempt anything of the kind in future.”
The probability is that Trittheim had discovered that he < j
was a medium for materializations, and that Mary of m
Burgundy, having manifested herself to him, had promised to j (j
appear in the interview with Maximilian. According to Yon j > j
Auersperg’s version of the incident, in his poem, the interview j (j
is sought by Maximilian, and permission is not asked by j; j
Trittheim. The construction put upon the incident by the j (j
theosophists will probably be that Trittheim summoned the I; j
spirit by some magical process. But it may have been a Kj
simple medial manifestation. j)j
Boston, U. S. A., Jane 3rd, 1879. j (j
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. |j j
The following resolution in relation to the departed Spirit- j j j
ualist and anti-slavery reformer, written by the Right Hon. j)!
John Bright, M.P., was on Saturday adopted by the Com- j(j
mittee of the Cobden Club. It will be engrossed on vellum, j) j
and presented to the late Mr. Lloyd Garrison’s family:— j (j
“ The Committee of the Cobden Club have heard with deep j / j
regret of the death of William Lloyd Garrison, the friend of jsj
the negro. His life has been devoted to the service of justice j) j
and freedom ; the black man owes him lasting gratitude, for i \ j
he mainly created the conditions which made negro slavery j) i
in the United States of America impossible, and negro free- m
dom certain ; the white man owes him thanks for the lesson j r j
he has taught him that the persistent labours of humble men j > j
in a righteous’cause have promise of success. A great nation j l j
will reckon him among the noblest of her sons, for he led the jv
way to that freedom which by her Constitution was intended j / j
to be, and which is now, the possession of all her children. \)\
The Committee of the Cobden Club wish by this resolution to K j
place on record the expression of their reverence for the life, |) i
and their sorrow for the death, of one of the most eminent j (i
among the honorary members of the Club.” j) j
Mb. J. William Fletcheb will receive his friends and the public, j) j
after June 20th, at his new residence. No. 22, Gordon-street, Gordon- (
square, London, W.O., close to the Gower-street Railway station.
A PROPHETIC VISION.
The following true narrative, of which an abstract was
printed in The Spiritualist shortly after the occurrence, is ex¬
tracted from A Marked Life; or, the Autobiography of a Clair-
voyante, by Gipsy (Sampson Low, Marston and Co., 1879)
“My eyes were closed in a vain attempt to sleep, when
I saw a vision with my second sight. I looked upon it with¬
out the least thought of fear, and all my senses were in a most
passive state. It was the interpretation of my peculiar feel¬
ings on first entering the cabin, and eagerly I watched the
waking dream as it passed slowly before my eyes.
“ I could see a steamship stranded on a rocky ledge, with the
foam and waves lashing over its battered sides; the decks
covered with men and women struggling to escape by the
ship’s boats, and working with the energy of despair; among
them I stood, a quiet spectator of the wild scene. I saw the
water creeping into the helpless vessel, now heeling over on
her side, and watched unmoved the terror that seized the
passengers as they crowded into the life-boats, until every
soul was saved. Into the last boat I stepped, and as we pulled
from the wreck the deserted ship righted, and with a shiver¬
ing plunge went down, down, till she was quite out of sight.
“ Slowly the vision vanished, while I heard the old familiar
voice of my mother whisper softly in my ears, ‘ Don’t be
afraid, Gipsy, you will come out safe.’
“ In the course of a general conversation one day in the
cabin, I remarked that I had seen in a dream the first night
out from New York a disaster threatening to befall our ship.
I was laughed at for my superstitious fears, and told that our
vessel was one of the most seaworthy on the Atlantic, and
that for thirteen years it had battled through storms, some of
which could not be compared for violence to what we were
then experiencing.
“ I made no mention of the fact that I possessed second
sight, and turned the conversation by opening the piano and
playing one of my liveliest airs.
“One gentleman in particular, Mr. Peter Doremus, was
much distressed at what I claimed to have seen, and he quietly
informed me that he had implicit faith in dreams, as a peculiar
circumstance in his life had made him a firm believer in the
power of certain individuals to foresee coming events.
“ He questioned me anxiously as to the time of the fulfil¬
ment, although I could give him no positive assurance, and
tried to laugh off his evident fear that my dream would be
verified.
“ A happy company of travellers was out on the steam¬
ship’s deck, watching the green pastures of the Emerald Isle
through the captain’s telescope, or throwing scraps of bread
to the sea-gulls that hovered about us, filling the air with
their shrill cries ; some were playing at the several games in
progress, and a musical quartette, in which I assisted, were
indulging in a round of jolly songs.
“ The afternoon sun had gone down in the western waters,
trailing its golden fingers along the craggy cliffs and dipping
in the glittering sands which now and then stretched down
to meet the sea.
“ In an instant the speeding ship was enveloped in a dense
fog, which increased as the darkness gathered, and heavy
drops of rain drove us all below.
“ As I entered the stairway leading to the saloon, once more
my old sensation seized me with redoubled force, and I
remarked aloud—
“ ‘ This ship is fated.’
“ Before I could cross the cabin floor my vision was fulfilled,
and the ill-fated ‘ Idaho * struck, with a convulsive, rasping,
grating sound, on Connebeg Rock.”
[For a description of the exciting scene which followed, how
the ship went down twenty minutes after striking on the rock,
and how the crew and passengers escaped in the boats, the
book itself may be consulted.]
Dk. J. Fau’s large work on Artistic Anatomy will be shortly issued by
Messes. Baillidre, Tindall, and Cox, in the form of a translation by Dr.
Carter Blake, of Westminster Hospital. It is now many years since the late
Dr. Robert Knox published his translation of The Anatomy of the Human
Form, from Dr. Fau, which costly work has long been the textbook of
artists.
June 20, 1879.
THE SPI-RITUALIST.
295
ANCIENT AND MEDIEVAL DIVINATION. |
BY S. E. BE MOKGAN. \)
In the preface to From Matter to Spirit Mr. De Morgan K
mentions a reference (by one of the Fathers) to divination, i)
per tabulas et capras, by tables and goats—an odd association.
The word crepa, he says, would be the legitimate companion \l
substantive of crepo, and would mean a crack or rap. But \\
the word is only found in Festus (teste Forcellini), who says j(
that crepce are goats—quod cruribus crepent. There is enough n
in this to raise a suspicion that crepa did actually exist in U
what would have been its primitive sense, and that the Father K
who is cited was speaking of divination by tables and raps, jt
(Note to preface, p. xi.) |j
My husband says he had mislaid the reference. Perhaps K
some reader of the Fathers may recognize or find it.* Table- \)
turning was practised by the Jewish rabbis at a much later K
period, as appears from Friedr. Brentz’s Judischen Abgestreifen jj
(Schleugenbalg, 1614). The Jews are represented as practi- K
sing kischuph (magic). “We make tables turn in playful i>
tunes with kischuph, and whisper into one another’s earsf 11
Schemoth, Schel, Schedim (names of demons), and the table |)
springs up then, even when laden with many hundred- \l
weight.” : ‘ ‘ ‘ • . ' jj
Zalaman Zebi, in his Judischen Theirak, 1615, defends this U
table-turning as practised, not through magic, but by the !)
power of God; kabbala maasith (practical magic).
“ Thus for the table-turning no evil spirits can be employed, i)
for we sing for it excellent songs, as Adon nolam jizdal (the j(
Lord of the world be exalted). Thus there can be no devil’s i)
work suffered when God is remembered.” See Yon Harless, \\
Das Buch von den Aegypten Mysterien, 1858, p. 130.—From |)
Delitzch’s System of Biblical Psychologyy Clarke’s Foreign
Theological Library, v. 13. j)
I have not access to Yon Harless, but as his book on the |s
Egyptian mysteries is referred to for table-turning, there is j)
probability that even this modern “superstition” may be jj
traced in the ancient, wonderful Spiritualism of Egypt. Some ;/
of the pictures in Dr. Lepsius’ Book of the Dead were suspected \(
to refer to this by the late learned Samuel Maitland, D.D., i)
librarian to the Archbishop of Canterbury, and a most accu- jj
rate writer. In a letter to Mr. De Morgan I find the follow- j)
ing. Dr. Maitland had seen the plates only, lent him by the jj
Rev. Dunbar Heath, the Egyptologist, so he had no means jj
of verifying or disproving his conjecture. jj
“ Through the eighty-two plates, which have no letterpress jj
explanations (from the fourth and fifth dynasties) there jj
frequently occurs such a scene as that of which I enclose a jj
traciug4 I think I have counted twenty-seven with very jj
little variation, the principal one being that sometimes there : j
is but one person, sometimes (as here) two, seated side by jj
side, pointing at or touching the table. Now, what are they j j
about ? Are they not turning the table ? I have suggested j j
this to Mr. Heath, and he tells me that what I call a table is i j
a small movable altar with offerings upon it; but this I can j j
not stand, and do not think that anybody looking at the jj
plates in which the scenes occur would think of maintaining jj
his view. However, he says that my notion has the merit of j j
novelty, so I suppose the suggestion had not been previously j <•
made. This little thing (the one traced) is over an entrance jj
between two colossal figures, and comes from one of the jj
pyramids of Gizeh. But the best representation is ii. 19, ij
where, on one wall (and now on one page), the scene is repre- j j
sented thrice over, and is likewise coloured. That representa- j j
tion has the further advantage of having (as two or three jj
others only have) two or three persons on a smaller scale, who j j
are addressing the principal figure; but in no case do more ij
than two touch the table, or point, as in the tracing. It is ij
to be observed that there is nothing analogous to, or that can j j
be mistaken for this; and why should they not have divined i j
in that way ? If tables can move now, why not then ?”
Since the publication of the great work which gave rise to jj
Dr. Maitland’s conjectures. Professor Max Muller has invest!- \l
gated the origin of religion, assigning its rise, in many jj
instances, to the worship of ancestors. He has not, I believe, jj
entered so fully into the nature of this cultus as has M. jj
* The passage is in TerbuUian.—Ed. Spiritualist. i)
t I cannot be sure of the spelling of these Hebrew words. The above is copied from an \)
extract from Delitzoh written by a friend. K
t The tracing was returned to Dr. Maitland. ; 1
Fustel de Coulanges, in his most instructive volume, La CiU
Antique. From his researches we learn that it was a com¬
munion with the departed spirit of the last male head of the
house, who was believed to be the guardian spirit of the
family till another should take his place, when he ascended
higher. This worship or communion was carried on in a
small inclosure within the walls of the house, and fitted up
with a hearth and a table or altar, on which the sacred fire
was kept burning, and on which corn, rice, and fruits were
cooked for the spirit. Here the food was offered to him, and
his protecting care invoked. “ The methods of communicating”
the writer says, l< varied in families, each having its own mode,
which it did not make known to others, and the rite was
thought to be desecrated by a stranger’s presence.”
If this early Roman and other simple cults consisted of any
supposed intercourse with the departed relation, it is evident
that the families had no doubts about spirit identity. They
brought to the circle a condition of feeling which would be
held unfavourable for scientific investigation. Only the
family participated in the rite. They had no “paid medium;”
no one except those whose trust and sympathy helped, rather
than opposed, the current of spirit power. If they communi¬
cated with a spirit, they felt and knew that it was the one
who had just left the body, and who was as near them in
affection as he had been before. No “elementary” or false
spirit could enter a circle so formed, but a “well-devised
scientific test ” might perhaps have made it difficult for the
one who had entered the state in which affection implies
proximity to be present.
The “ sacred fire ” is said by Coulanges to have been for
cooking the food placed on the table for the spirit, and that
the worship was, somehow, that of the domestic hearth. The
fire was probably used for cooking, but it was in its essence,
not in its symbolic form, that worship was paid to it. In its
higher degree it was light, “the life of men,” and the con¬
veyer of spiritual nourishment. This pure fire, the Great
Light of the Chaldean temple of Zergul, of the Parsees, and
of Yesta, has been symbolized in all times and among
different nations as a goddess whose attributes are everywhere
nearly alike. Ishtar, Ashtaroth, Astarte, Hathor, Isis, and
Yesta were all impersonations of this principle, but it is
represented in different degrees, according to the receptive
capacity of those to whom the symbols were given. So, in
each country there were different divinities having the same
attributes, and seeming to merge into each other, while they
are often really the same manifestation under different names.
Hence the great difficulty of making out the respective
Pantheons, with their identities and distinctions. But the
first step towards understanding the spiritual systems of
antiquity is to find the modes of their worship and the
functions and relations of their gods. The knowledge
supplied by Spiritualism will afford the elementary data.
May, 1879.
Last Wednesday afternoon, at a dark seance at the house of Mr-
Hensleigh Wedgwood, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London, a
table was turned bottom upwards while both the hands of the medium, Mr.
Haxby, were held.
Spirit Photographs in Court .—The Rochester (U. S.) JJnion says:—
“ A singular suit at law has just been commenced in Dausville, R. L. Dorr
having begun proceedings against W. J. Lee, a photographer of that place.
It appears that Dorr came to Rochester a short time ago, and hearing that
the so-called spirit photographs were being taken at a certain place, went
to try his success in securing upon the same negative with his own the faces
of deceased acquaintances. He succeeded to his own satisfaction, which we
will presume was the more easily obtained because of the fact that he was a
firm believer in Spiritualism. On returning to Dansville he became involved
in a controversy with Lee regarding the matter, and the latter volunteered
the opinion that the whole business was a humbug, and that he could
demonstrate his position to the other’s satisfaction. It is stated that Lee
made a trial, and afterwards, abandoned further attempts. Dorr sues for this
breach of contract, but claims that he does not care so much for the value
of the picture as he does to establish the fact that photographs of spirits are
actually being taken. The trial will take place on the 22nd inst., and it
is expected that a large number of witnesses from the photographers, the
clergy, and the medical profession will be called. The Dansville Express,
in commenting on the alleged phenomena, says: ‘To produce upon the
same negative plate, at the same time, a setting of familiar faces Other than
the sitter, involves a mystery not yet solved, so we are waiting to know
what manifestations are to come next.’ It remains to be seen what the
legal trial referred to will develop, but it is to be hoped that it will be
sufficiently thorough and exhaustive to set many minds at rest on this
question.”
296
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 20, 1879.
A GREAT HOAX ABOUT TRANCES IN ANIMALS.
-' The Times and other newspapers have been misled into seri¬
ously publishing a story from The Brisbane Courier, the whole
narrative being a hoax. The following are the chief portions
of the story :—
,, “ Signor Rotura called upon Mr. Grant to invoke his assist-
ance in a scheme for the transmission of live stock to Europe.
Signor Rotura averred that he had discovered a South
American vegetable poison, allied to the well-known icoolara,
that had the power of perfectly suspending animation, and
that the trance thus produced continued till the application of
another vegetable essence caused the blood to resume its cir¬
culation and the heart its functions. So perfect, moreover
was this suspension of life that Signor Rotura had found in a
warm clitnate decomposition set in at the extremities after a
week of this living death, and he imagined, if the body in this
inert state were reduced to a temperature sufficiently low to
arrest decomposition, the trance might be kept up for months,
possibly for years. He frankly owned he had never tried this
preserving of the tissues by cold, and could not confidently
speak as to its effect on the after restoration of the animal
operated on. Before he left Mr. Grant he had turned that
gentleman’s doubts into wondering curiosity by experiment¬
ing on his dog. He injected two drops of his liquid, mixed
with a little glycerine, into a small puncture made in the dog’s
ear, and in three or four minutes the animal was perfectly
rigid, the four legs stretched backward, eyes wide open, pupils
very much dilated, and exhibiting symptoms very similar to
those of death by strychnine, except that there had been no
previous struggle or pain. Begging his owner to have no
apprehension for the life of his favourite animal, Signor
Rotura lifted the dog carefully, and placed him on a shelf in
a cupboard, where he begged he might be left until the follow¬
ing day, when he promised to call at ten o’clock and revive
the apparently dead brute. Mr. Grant continually, during
that day and night, visited the cupboard, and so perfectly was
life suspended in his favourite—no motion of the pulse or
heart giving any indication of the possibility of revival, the
frame being perfectly rigid—that he confesses he felt all the
sharpest reproaches of remorse at having sacrificed a faithful
friend to a doubtful and dangerous experiment. The tem¬
perature of the body, too, in the first four hours gradually
lowered to 25 degrees Fahrenheit below ordinary blood tem¬
perature, which increased his fears as to the result, and by
morning the body was as cold as in actual death. At ten
o?clock next morning, according to promise, Signor Rotura
presented himself, and, laughing at Mr. Grant’s fears,
requested a tub of warm water to be brought. He tested
this with the thermometer at 32 degrees Fahrenheit, and in
this laid the dog’s head under. To Mr. Grant’s objections
Signor Rotura assured him that, as animation must remain
entirely suspended till the administration of the antidote, no
water could be drawn into the lungs, and that the immersion
of the body was simply to bring it again to a blood heat.
After about ten minutes of this bath the body was taken out
and another liquid injected into a puncture made in the neck.
Mr. Grant tells me that the revival of Turk was the most
startling thing he ever witnessed; and having since seen the
experiment made upon a sheep, I can fully confirm his state¬
ment. The dog first showed the return of life in the eye,
and after five and a half minutes he drew a long breath, and
the rigidity left his limbs. In a few minutes more he com¬
menced gently wagging his tail, and then slowly got up,
stretched himself, and trotted off as though nothing had
happened. From that moment Mr. Grant became aware of
the extraordinary issues opened by his visitor’s discovery,
and promised him all the assistance in his power. They next
determined to try freezing the body, and the first two
experiments were discouraging. A dog, not Turk—his
master declining to experiment any further on his favourite
—was put in the freezing-chamber at Mr. Grant’s works for
four days, after being previously ‘ suspended ’ by Signor
Rotura; and although the animal revived so far as to draw
a long breath, the vital energies appeared too exhausted for
a complete rally, and the animal died. The two next animals,
& dog and a cat, died in like manner. In the meantime Dr.
Barker hadJ been taken into their counsels, and at his
suggestion respiration was encouraged, as in the case of
j)j persons drowned, by artificial compression and expansion of
|] the lungs. Dr. Barker was of opinion that, as the heart in
j/j every case commenced to beat, it was a want of vital force
j\j to set the lungs in proper motion that caused death. The
])] result showed his surmises to be entirely correct. A number
|p of animals, whose lives have been sealed up in this artificial
j}j death, have been kept in the freezing-chamber from one to
jyj five weeks, and it is found that, though the shock to the
j/j system from this freezing is very great, it is not increased by
|X;| duration of time. Messrs. Grant and Rotura then determined
j|i upon the erection of the works just finished at Middle
ip Harbour, an enterprising capitalist, Mr. Christopher Newton,
j) j of Pitt-street, finding the necessary funds. Arrived at the
j s i works in Middle Harbour, I was taken into the building that
|) i contains Mr. Grant’s apparatus for generating cold, which
| \ | has already been, in Mr. Nicolle’s time, too often and fully
j/j described to require any further notice from me. Attached
i(j to it is the freezing-chamber, a small, dark room about eight
i) i feet by ten feet. Here were fourteen sheep, four lambs, and
II \ three pigs, stacked on their sides in a heap ‘ alive,’ which
m Mr. Grant told me had been in their present position for
jp nineteen days, and were to remain there for another three
I) j months. Selecting one of the lambs, Signor Rotura put it
jp. on his shoulder and carried it outside into the other building,
;); where a number of shallow cemented tanks were in the floor,
i (j having hot and cold water taps to each tank, with a ther-
j) j mometer hanging alongside. One of these tanks was quickly
I) i filled, and its temperature tested by the Signor, I meantime
jjl examining with the greatest curiosity and wonder the nine-
jp teen days’ * dead ’ lamb. The days of miracles truly seem to
|) i have come back to us, and many of those stories discarded as
Ip absurdities se?m to me less improbable than this fact,
j) | witnessed by myself. There was the lamb, to all appearance
Ip dead, and as hard almost as a stone, the only difference per-
j/j ceptible to me between his condition and actual death being
III the absence of dull glassiness about the eye, which still retained
j/j its brilliant transparency. Indeed, this brilliancy of the eye,
j (| which is heightened by the enlargement of the pupil, is very
j/j striking, and lends a rather weird appearance to the bodies,
j (| The lamb was gently dropped into the warm bath, and was
j/j allowed to remain in it about twenty-three minutes, its head
Ip being raised above the water twico for the introduction of the
j / i thermometer into its mouth, and then it was taken out and
Ip placed on its side on the floor, Sig nor Rotura quickly dividing
In the wool on its neck and inserting the sharp point of a small
j) | silver syringe under the skin and injecting the antidote. This
| /1 was a pale, green liquid, and, as I believe, a decoction from
|p the root of the astracharlis, found in South America. The
j/j lamb was then turned on its back, Signor Rotura standing
jp across it, gently compressing its ribs with his knees and
I / j hands, in such a manner as to imitate their natural depression
IJ j and expansion during breathing. In ten minutes the animal
j/j was struggling to free itself, and when released skipped out
j (| through the door, and went gambolling and bleating over the
|/j little garden in front. Nothing has ever impressed me so
jp entirely with a sense of the marvellous. One is almost
| (| tempted to ask, in the presence of such a discovery, whether
j) j death itself may not ultimately be baffled by scientific in-
| /1 vestigation.
“ You will see at once the benefits claimed by the discoverers
j/j of this process. Cargoes of live sheep can thus be sent to
j; i England by large steamers ; and although a freezing atmos-
111 phere will still be an essential, a temporary break down
Ip necessitating a stoppage of eight or ten days in the production
j/j of cold would be of no consequence. When the sheep are
j j I landed in England, any that fail to entirely rally will bo
|(j perfectly good meat, whereas the others can be turned on to
ip pastures or driven to market. Of course the same results can
j/j be achieved with bullocks, but their greater weight makes
j > j them more difficult to handle with safety, and the carcase is
j /1 rendered brittle by freezing, making them the more liable to
j) j injury. It sounded odd to hear Mr. Grant and Signor Rotura
| /1 laying stress upon the danger of breakage on the voyage.
“Signor Rotura tells me that, though he has never at-
| / j tempted his experiment on a human being, he has no doubt
|p at all as to its perfect safety. The next felon under capital
j | j sentence he has requested Sir Henry Parkes to be allowed to
II j operate on. He proposes placing him in the freezing chamber
‘ 1 for one month, and declares that he has no fear of a fatal
June 20, 1879,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
297
result. As to whether this temporary suspension would effect
the longevity of the subject, he can give no positive informa¬
tion, but believes its duration might be prolonged for years.
I was anxious to know if a period of, say, five years of this
inertness were submitted to, whether it would be so much out
of one’s life, or if it would be simply five years of unconscious
existence tacked on to one’s sentient life. Signor Rotura
could give no positive answer, but he believes, as no change
takes place, or can take place, while in this frozen trance—
no consumption, destruction, or reparation of tissue being
possible—it would be so many unvalued and profitless years
added to a lifetime.
“ Signor Rotura proceeds to South America at once for a
large supply of the two necessaries for the safe conduct of his
process, and both these substances at present remain a secret. ”
SYNCHRONOUS HALLUCINATIONS.
Sometimes two or more persons see real or subjective
apparitions at the same time, whilst others present see them
not. May not this fact account for some of the following
incidents, narrated by a writer in The Globe newspaper of
Juno 9th, in the course of an article on the Mirage ?—
“ It is, perhaps, a little doubtful whether, if we accept the
apparently truthful accounts of travellers, the phenomenon of
the mirage is entirely explained by the theory of refraction.
Very frequently the incorporeal but realistic visions of the
air are evidently exact images of objects at a distance. But
on the coast of Sicily, we are told, the phantoms often take
the form of magnificent palaces, stupendous castles, and vast
armies of men on foot or on horseback, objects which can
scarcely be supposed to have their counterpart on the adjoin¬
ing shores. Again, in the African desert, when the mirage
appears in its most cruel form, and the exhausted traveller
is cheated by the delicious image of distant groves and foun¬
tains, it seems at least likely that the illusion arises from
a morbid and feverish condition of the retina of the observer,
such as that which produces, for example, the frightful
spectres of delirium tremens, rather than from the refraction
in the atmosphere of some actual oasis. In some cases,
indeed, in which the mirage has been observed in the desert,
the distance from any real oasis must have been immense.
“ It is a curious speculation how far some of the extraor¬
dinary aerial phenomena recorded by ancient and by compara¬
tively modern writers may be explained by reference to the
scientific theory which accounts for the mirage. To take one
class of these phenomena only, there are a large number
of instances in which spectral armies are alleged to have been
seen and mimic battles fought in the upper regions of the air.
The chroniclers are so notorious for their love of the miracu¬
lous that it is scarcely worth while to quote from the
numerous portents of this character which may be found in
their writings. A typical example from Roger de Wendover
will suffice. In the reign of King John, according to this
chronicler, ‘ Hugh de Bores came with a large army to the
port of Calais to assist the king of England, and at that place
he embarked with all his forces and sailed for Dover; but a
sudden storm arising before he reached his destined port,
they were all shipwrecked and swallowed up by the waves.
... In the night on which Hugh de Bores was lost there
arose an unusual storm of wind and rain, thunder and light¬
ning, such as had never been seen before. It happened that
a certain monk of St. Alban’s, named Robert de W eston, who
was staying at Bingham, was going«to Norwich to fulfil the
duties of his calling, and at midnight, when he was about
half-way on his journey, that storm rose, and in the storm he
saw a countless army of men, riding on very black steeds, with
torches of sulphur, and they remained near the monk, observ¬
ing a sort of order in their movements.’ Stories of this kind
are sufficiently well accounted for by the deliberate mendacity
or the hallucination of the clergy of the day. But when we
come down to the era of the Civil Wars we meet with similar
stories, which it seems almost as difficult to ascribe to pure
invention as to accept for historic fact.
‘“Upon the 30th day of December, 1641,’ we are told,
‘ there did appear in the sight of the inhabitants of the city
of Dublin a prodigious apparition in the firmament, the
similitude whereof I shall truly demonstrate in this present
) | declaration. There appeared a great host of armed men in
\ | the likeness of horse and foot, and according to human sup-
) | position they seemed to be innumerable; where especially
\ | were notified to the eye of the aforesaid beholders of the city
}j of Dublin a train of artillery with great ordnance and field-
pieces, as necessary for a battle; where also was presented to
the amazement of the beholders gunners giving fire in direful
j and hideous manner, that the very likeness of the flames
[thereof struck the beholders with great terror and admiration.’
“ Again, we are told of a three hours’ fight between
‘ incorporeal soldiers,’- which was observed near Northamp-
j ton on the Saturday before Christmas Day, 1642. Minute
details are given of this apparition, which is said to have
been accompanied by dreadful noise, * so terrifying the poor
beholders that they could not believe that they were mortal, or
)j give credit to their ears and eyes.’ After the soldiers had
Jj ‘vanished,’ however, the ‘poor beholders’ went and took
>| oath before two justices of the peace to the truth of what they
[ | had witnessed. The next night ‘ all the substantial inhabi-
> | tants of the place ’ witnessed a similarly alarming pheno-
[| menon ; and, subsequently, several justices of the peace, with
> | a number of Royalist officers, repairing to the same place,
It | observed and heard a repetition of the ‘ afore-mentioned pro-
| digies ... of which upon oath they made testimony to
the king.’ On the 3rd of September, 1654, we learn from
another writer :—‘ Between nine and ten of the clock a t
night there was seen at Hull, in Yorkshire, this strange,
| terrible, and unwonted apparition. On a sudden the sky
11 seemed to be of a fiery colour, and there immediately
>| appeared in the air in the east a huge body of pikemen,
l \ several parties marching before as a forlorn hope. Suddenly
) \ was beheld in the west another army, the which seemed to
\ | march towards the eastern army with all possible speed.
| Both parties did engage, and furiously charged each other
\ i with their pikes, breaking through onethe other, backwards
)j and forwards in such dreadful sort as the beholders were
\ | stricken with terror thereat.’ The writer proceeds to give a
I minute description of the engagement, and concludes:—
‘ Reader, what interpretation thou wilt make of this appari-
| tion I know not, neither shall I add anything of mine own
| to the relation; only take notice (and believe it) it is no
fiction, nor scarecrow, but a thing real, and far beyond what
\ I is here reported ; for the spectators (such was their astonish-
) | ment) could not recollect so much as they saw afterwards to
{| make a true report of.’ Under the date of September, 1680,
(| we have a minute story of the apparition in the air of a sea-
{| fight, the details of which are drawn up by a clergyman, who
) | was one of the eye-witnesses of the affair. On the night of
| the 17th of December, 1680, at Ottery, in Devonshire, ‘two
11 great armies ’ were seen to fight in the sky. A clergyman
j | who was present (not the same one) attests the truth of the
/1 occurrence, and gives details of it. In the year 1686, upon
) i many, several occasions, according to Patrick Walker, large
(| companies of armed men were seen on the banks of the Clyde,
) | ‘ marching along the waterside, and then all falling to the
(| ground and disappearing.’ The year 1691 was prolific in
j| apparitions of a similar character, alleged to have been
11 witnessed in various parts of the kingdom, several of which
) | were sworn to before justices of the peace. It is not, perhaps,
11 altogether impossible that, making allowance for confusion of
> | dates, and the exaggeration excited by real terror, the stories
l\ which have been adverted to, and others of a similar charac-
j | ter, may have had their origin in genuine phenomena of the
(| nature of the mirage, and if the obstinately sceptical should
)j inquire how it came to pass that these remarkable aerial
It | visions should have occurred so frequently anterior to the last
century, and then so suddenly ceased, it may be argued that,
| just as certain years or cycles of years are hotter or colder, or
I dryer or more rainy than others, so it may be that certain
periods—possibly seldom recurring, but long-lasting when
they come—may be more favourable to the influences of
atmospheric refraction. For our own part, we are not
unwilling to stretch our credulity a little if we may rescue
our ancestors from the suspicion of wholesale and gratuitous
|] falsehood.”
) I During alterations in the premises at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, Mr. C.
) | E. Williams will change his address to 13, Millmau-street, corner of New
\ i Ormond-street, London, where he may be found at his usual hours.
298
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 20, 1879.
THE SPIRITS’ RETURN.
I peel their touch upon my hair,
Upon my cheek and on my brow;
I know that they are everywhere,
That they are with me even now. ‘
The air grows softer as they move,
The day seems brighter when they come;
And all my soul melts into love.
And longs for its immortal home.
For there the smiles are true as heaven,
And all words mean the speaker’s faith ;
And promises are never given
That can be broken e’en by death.
For in that beauteous summer-land
Death dare not show its pallid face—
None there can feel bis bony hand,
Nor measure life with life’s disgrace.
I had a friend some days agone,
Dear as my heart, and fond as true ;
While winter-heat or summer shone
All truths to her white soul she drew;
And I was happy in her smile,
Nor knew a grief if she was nigh ;
Nor saw stamped on her brow the while
The chilling truth that she must die.
But after dismal days had fled,
And I was weary with my sighs—
I saw her whom I deemed as dead,
Like a crowned angel from the skies.
She stood beside me, white as light,
And pure with heaven’s own purity;
Since then no death can dim my sight—
Since then there is no death to me.
Mind and Matter.
THE CLOSE OF A USEFUL LIFE.]
And in my dying hour,
When liches, fame, and honour have no power
To bear the spirit up,
Or from my lips to turn aside the cup
That all must drink at last—
Oh, let me draw refreshment from the past!
Then let my soul run back.
With peace and joy, along my earthly track, |
And see that all the seeds
That I have scattered there, in virtuous deeds
Have sprung up, and have given
Already fruits of which to taste is heaven!
And though no grassy mound
Or granite pile say ’tis heroic ground
Where my remains repose,
Still will I hope—vain hope, perhaps!—that those
Whom I have striven to bless—
The wanderer reclaimed, the fatherless—
May stand around my grave,
With the poor prisoner, and the poorer slave,
And breathe an humble prayer
That they may die like him whose bones are mouldering there.
John Pie' font.
)
)
\
CorresponDence* |
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically i )
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be I (
relumed; copies should be kept by the wrriters. Preference is given to letters which are I f
not anonymous.l   ; f
SPIRIT IDENTITY. . | (
Sir,—At a seance, recently held here a spirit came to the table who gave |)
the name of Sarah Caysey, and said that she had been executed at Leeds ! (
fifteen years ago for the murder of her child, a little girl five years of age. j (
She said she had committed the erime while under the influence of drink. |)
She said she was very unhappy, and felt deep remorse for her conduct.
Can any of our Leeds’ friends tell us whether there is any truth in the j \
statement, and if so kindly inform your readers ? Thos. Wilks.
28, Victoria-grove, Stoke Newington, June 14, 1879. i)
HOSPITAL LIBRARIES. . : |(
Sir,—I think every one who has ever been in a hospital ward will agree ;)
with me that hardly a greater boon could be conferred on the suffering in- | /
mates than the establishment of a lending library for their use. The gift of j (
a little book to some suffering one has often induced a look of gratitude that | J
has lived in our memory for days afterwards, and it appears to me that the I /
establishment of a series of permanent libraries in our London hospitals \l
should be an easy and a pleasant duty. I will give, as a first donation, a : (
hundred volumes of my own publications, and I nave no doubt the London i (
publishers will respond most liberally from their wealth of literature; but |)
my object in writing is to ask those of your readers who have readable !/
books, for which they have no further use, to send thehi to me, and so form j (
the nucleus of a system that will, I trust, become prodigious in its proper- i)
tions. Those who cannot send books will perhaps help us in pecuniary ' ■
donations towards the same object, and I shall be happy to receive and
acknowledge all such. I shall be glad if donors will kindly send all parcels
to my address, carriage paid, advising me by post-card of their despatch.
Cheques and P.O.O. should be crossed London and County Bank.
Your kind insertion of this appeal would be greatly esteemed by
F. E. Longley.
39, Warwick-lane, London, E.C.
THE AUTHORSHIP OP SHAKESPEARE’S PLAYS.
“ There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.”
Sir,—Without denying the possibility of some source of inspiration that
might be equal to the production of the plays of Shakespeare, one must con¬
sider the great improbability of the thing, as well as consider the facts and
arguments so ably set forth by Judge Holmes in proof of the real author
being Lord Verulam, the chief points of which are very clearly given in
Fi ■user's Magazine for August, 1874. Lord Palmerston always asserted
that Bacon was the real author and that Shakespeare could not have been,
and I am myself fully satisfied of the truth of the theory; but people start
from the inquiry, and will not look at evidence to me overwhelming.
One fact I will name which, taken with the other arguments, seems con¬
clusive; I mean the celebrated Tobie Matthew postscript. Sir Tobie
Matthew was Bacon’s most intimate literary friend, to whom he sent his
works as they appeared. At about the time of the publication of the collected
folio of the plays, many appeared never heard of before, and this seven years
after Shakesepeare’s death. There is a letter to Bacon from his friend,
thanking him for a work received, with the following :—
“ P.S.—Themost prodigious wit that ever I knew of my nation and of
this side of the sea is of your lordship’s name, though he be known by
another.”
Now to what could this possibly refer but to these plays, the authorship of
which he dared not openly avow, or all chance of advancement would have
been at an end. It could not have referred to his philosophical works, for
they were all published with his name to them, and the wording of the P.S.
clearly implies a secret to be kept. Many say, “ What does it signify who
wrote the plays ? ” but surely this matter is of the deepest interest to the
psychologist and literary historian, and to compare the Novum Organum and
De Augmentis with the Hamlet, The Tempest, and Timon of Athens,
and the other philosophical plays—surely so! Henry G. Atkinson.
VISITORS TO A READING-ROOM.
Sir,—I am instructed to ask if you will kindly publish the subjoined
letter, which has been addressed to Mrs. Lowe in reply to her letter to the
Council of the B N.A.S. which appeared in your issue of last week.
C. A. Burke, Sec.
British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., June 16th, 1879.
38, Great Russell-street, W.C., Jane 13th, 1879.
Dear Madam,—Your letter of resignation, dated June 2nd, was read at the
Council meeting of June 10th, and I am instructed to point out to you a mis¬
conception which has apparently influenced your mind, and caused you to
tender your resignation.
You assume that the request conveyed to Dr. Carter Blake, in courteous
terms, and acknowledged by him in a letter of equal courtesy, was dictated
in a spirit of “religious intolerance,” and was made “obviously on the sole
ground of his being a Roman Catholic.” In this idea, I am instructed to
assure you, that you are mistaken. The Council emphatically repudiates any
such motive, which, equally with yourself, they would consider as an act of
intolerance. The Association numbers among its members representatives of
the most various religious opinions, all equally welcome, and none viewed
with any preference on the ground of theological or religious belief. Any
such preference or antipathy has, indeed, been expressly disclaimed since the
formation of the Association.
The facts respecting the case to which you refer are entirely otherwise. Dr
Carter Blake had voluntarily resigned his membership on January 14th, a
date, you will observe, antecedent to the time when he was courteously re¬
quested to refrain from using the rooms of the Association. His resignation
bad been accepted, and thanks voted to him for services rendered to the
Association. The connection being thus severed by his own act, it was
surely competent for the Society to remind him that it is not usual for any one
to continue to avail himself of privileges which he has voluntarily resigned.
This was courteously done, and courteously acknowledged, and the Council
saw with surprise at a subsequent period that another aspect had been given
to the affair by the publication in The Spiritualist of an ex parte statement.
The Council trusts that this statement, which conveys the unanimous feeling
of the members who were present when your letter was read, may lead you to
withdraw your resignation, the acceptance of which was deferred in that
hope.—I am, dear madam, yours obediently, C. A. Burke, Sec.
Mrs. Louisa Lowe.
ORGANIZATION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—Last week I gave seven possible definitions of a Spiritualist—not
quite so precise as definitions should be, but still roughly corresponding
with conceptions severally entertained by different people who accept the
name for themselves. We saw that our chief association—the British
National—has adopted no definition: an argument, some may think, of its
liberality and expansiveness. And certainly this spirit has been very markedly
displayed in the papers allowed to be read at its discussion meetings.
I remember, to be sure, that there were some murmurs against a paper read
by Captain Burton, as not appropriate to the place. But on the whole it
seems to be understood that as long as any one accepts the phenomena, he
will not be rejected for heresy in his speculations. Now in a psychological
society this would be all very well, and as it should be. It has always
seemed to me that people who haven’t been able to satisfy themselves by
this time of the reality of phenomena which occupy so great a space in the
considerations of psychology are almost as much out of place in Mr.
Serjeant Cox’s society as at Great Russell-street. But if Spiritualists hare
JtittE 20, 1879.
THE SPlRITtTALIST.
299
any distinctive basis of union, it is surely something more than an agreement j l j
about the existence of facts; I mean, of facts really cut down by exact state- j (i
ment to sensible knowledge, as distinguished from those general allegations j V j
of fact which involve inferences or assumptions. If, as has been said, the |) j
world loosely describes all who have verined those facts as Spiritualists, it K i
is only because the world, in its ignorance of the whole subject, declines to |
make distinctions. But those who take the name are in a false position j S j
if they do not say how much and how little they mean by it. Positive indi- i) I
viduals with clean-cut convictions, we know, are ready enough to do so. I || I
am speaking of a collective declaration as to what is required of those who | (j
organize, and expect to be joined by others. Is it not required ? Bor what i J j
do you organize? Is Spiritualism a religion or the foundation of a religion, i / ]
and are you a church, or united in some such solemn appreciation of the
significance of what truth you believe you know ? We remember with what
confusion of tongues that question has lately been answered. Indeed, these
considerations spring out of and are suggested by that well-waged contro¬
versy. It was an unconscious attempt to define, as the condition of closer
union and more clear-sighted action. But even those who think that in the
mere conception of living on there may lie a sufficient wealth of religious
teaching- to respond to man’s spiritual needs are bound to show
that it is some way out of the germ stage, and evolved to a capability of
statement. But do we not know by experience what happens when Spirit¬
ualism develops into a religious or philosophical phase ? Have we not
** Harmonial Philosophies,” “ Oneida, Communities,” Swedenborgianism,
Irvingism, Theosophies—not, it is true all offshoots of the modern move¬
ment called Spiritualism, but essentially connected with it, and each and
all separating from it or disclaiming it as something elementary, trivial,
misunderstood, or perhaps disorderly ? As soon as transcendental Spiritual¬
ism comes into play, and the light or glamour of interior communion with
the world of spirit and its teachings attracts congenial natures to mysticism
it ceases to be the Spiritualism of the masses. And it is with the latter that
we must be solely concerned in asking what is the character and what the
objects of organization for Spiritualists as such. Then how about the scien¬
tific alternative ? Do we organize for the purpose of ascertaining, by ex¬
periment, the laws which govern the phenomena ? That celrtainly is put
forward as a great feature in the work of the British National Association.
But it is not, and cannot be, the raison d’etre of a great organization. It
is work which must be done by the few, and which is, perhaps, not very
interesting or intelligible to the many. So of papers and discussions. Why
should a Spiritualist in the provinces give a guinea to gentlemen and ladies
in London, to provide themselves with a comfortable club-room, and that
they may regale him, through your columns, with records of facts more or
less famuiar, and with speculations more or less crude ? The so-called “British
National” is essentially a London club, mainly supported by London money,
not taking in hand, nor offering to take in hand, the one function which
would really entitle it to the support and gratitude of Spiritualists, wherever
resident. What that is I will conclude with; but first, I wish to state the
three propositions I have been trying to enforce. (1) That “ the religious
aspect ” is no basis of union and organization among Spiritualists generally;
(2) That no mere experimental and speculative work will suffice to supply
that basis; (3) That mere common agreement on facts will not do so. If
your organization is to be entirely self-regarding, having for its object the
satisfaction of your own needs as Spiritualists, then, I submit, you must
show by definition what your agreement is; that it is some cult that binds
you together, and that it is such as to require organic union for its expres¬
sion and furtherance. Organization has two objects—internal government
and order, which can have reference only to a collective expression of a
common faith or purpose. Such is the organization of a church, as dis¬
tinguished from missionary enterprise. Or, organization may be aggressive,
proselytizing, propagandist. Such are political unions, and all unions which
nave for their object the diffusion of opinions or knowledge, and the attain¬
ment of public ends thereby. Mere association is not organization, and a
“ national ” association which is not organic, which is not hierarchical, so
to speak, nor seeks an influence on the world (as does the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science, for example), is a misnomer—almost a
contradiction in terms. For true “ association ”—not organic—can only be
local. Because its position is not defined, and because it has not considered
the meaning and conditions of organization, the Bussell-street “National”
is at once ineffective and pretentious. I have no unkindly feeling towards it,
though I am one of those who have lately left it. At a late Council meeting,
Mr. Stainton-Moses |intimated, if I remember rightly what was reported,
that outsiders would not offend by offering criticism and advice. I am sorry
that such an assurance should have been necessary; but I shall proceed to
avail myself of it. We have seen, I think, that this Association has no
warrant for what it purports to be, either as a religious denomination or as
a scientific body, or in any passive agreement upon matters of fact. But it
may become a true orgamzation—even national—a true centre of activity
for common ends, by recognizing itself as an union of the second sort I men¬
tioned above—an externalizing agency. Here there is work enough to
engage the interests, sympathy, and support of all, and no need of
definitions. A well-advised and systematic attempt to spread the facts,
to obtain public recognition of them, to uproot scientific materialism
with them, is the test I would propose of the title of the gentlemen and
ladies of Great Russell-street to represent the Spiritualists of the United
Kingdom. We are all anti-materialists, at least. Along with that common
agreement about our facts, in itself so barren and so impotent, there is a de¬
sire, easy to shape into a purpose, which would utilize our energies and be
fruitful of achievement. I know what is said, “ You cannot force the facts
upon unwilling minds.” Fancy Galileo, fancy Luther—fancy any one or any
body of men who ever initiated a great work in the world, saying that! I
might be content to answer, if that be so, there is then no basis of compre¬
hensive organization among Spiritualists. But in fact I don’t want to make the
futile attempt objected to. The objection assumes that all the willing minds
in the country are Spiritualists (in the fact sense) already. We know that
this is not so, that there are thousands upon thousands who know nothing
of our evidences, and who are yearning, often unconsciously to themselves,
for some assurance—for some well-founded presumption even—that they and
those they love, and those they have lost, are more than dust. Unwilling
minds are never forced directly, but they are impelled by the momentum of
the majority or by the rush of any advancing tide of opinion. And many
there are who rail against Spiritualism because all their impressions of it are
derived from false and malicious report; whose minds are not in truth un¬
willing. I have known the prejudices of such an one prostrated by a single
experience.
How to set about it ? Well, I agree that the diffusion of literature is of
very little or at least of very slow use. For such facts as we allege, each
one will require to see for himself. A dozen Slades planted in a dozen dif¬
ferent districts of England for a year would make Spiritualism—its pheno¬
mena—a Royal Society subject the year after. It is said, and generally be¬
lieved among us, that mediums can be trained to any manifestations, and to
improved conditions of observation. This has been talked about for a long
time now, but I am not aware that it has been attempted. Why not attempt
,, it ? Get as many young mediums as you can; rigorously isolate them from
I' i the public ; maintain them comfortably on the condition—to be strictly en¬
forced—that they never give stances in the dark. Devote all your funds, if
1 necessary, to this one object, and tell the public—our public—what you are
doing, and why. I think you would get help; I am sure you would deserve
it. There are several mediums now who can get slate-writing occasionally.
If they devoted their powers to it, they would get it as regularly as Slade.
Do one thing at a time. Demonstrate psychography. Send abroad your
trained mediums under proper protection to every centre of population.
Admit investigators without payment. Of course there would be calumny at
first, ridicule, and alleged “ detections.” But the law couldn’t reach your
I mediums, and all that would soon be silenced, and would give way to appre¬
ciation of fact.
! (! That, Sir, is my suggestion; and if it is adopted successfully, I shall care
; (i little for definitions, the absence of which obliges me to subscribe myself at
j j i present interrogatively A Spibjtualist. (?)
I ) j PROPHETIC DREAMS.
Ii < | To the Editor of “ Mind and Matter ” (Philadelphia).
Sir,—Two years ago I boarded in a Presbyterian family in the city of
Trenton, N. J. From the lady of the house I received the following historic
reminiscences of a remarkable and startling character. I doubt it the lady
would object to the use of her full name, street, and number, but as I have
not consulted her as to the publication of the following series of prophetic
dreams, I should scarcely feel justified in doing so without her consent. But
any one curious enough to press the matter to the fountain-head will be aided
in doing so by addressing X. B. X., No. 1128, Yine-street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
enclosing stamp.
Some years ago the lady’s husband aforesaid was engaged in the
11! “ lumbering business ” at a considerable distance from home, and as there is
i (| always more or less danger connected with cutting and felling trees in the
IJI woods, it was not strange that the lady should feel uneasy and dream dreams
i) I of absent loved ones. But the strange part of these dreams was that she
|) i dreamed the same thing for seven consecutive nights, till she was driven
j(| almost wild and to madness lest a great evil had come or was about to
jyl come to her household. And that which is to me strangest of all is the
I fact that in the very details those night visions came true.
Dr. T. B. Taylor says, in one of Ins published discourses, that of “ all the
phenomena of modern spiritual manifestations none is so mysterious as that
of foreseeing events that come to pass in all their minute details. How is
it that a picture or panoramic view of a scene that has not yet transpired
is thrown upon the sensorium of a sleeping human being ? Or, if the event
that has not yet transpired is impressed by a soul or spirit outside of the
mortal life, how does the spirit so impressing the sensitive soul of the
sleeper get hold of the minute details of an event, or series of events, that
are suspended upon a thousand contingencies of a highly fortuitous character ?
Are we all mere automatons that dance upon the stage as the wires are
| (j worked behind the scenes ? Are we the absolute children of Fate ? Have
;) | the stars of the heavens marked out the fate in detail of every human being ?
i j i So says the astrologer. But who can believe that such is the fact and yet
|(i hold to the doctrine of the ‘Freedom of the human will?’ Are all the
i (I events of human life decreed by the God of the universe ? So says Presby-
i (i tcrianism and all forms of Calvinism. ‘ God hath freely and unchangeably
lyl foreordained whatsoever comes to pass,’ says the Confession of Faith.
1) | What then is the difference between Calvinism and astrology ? This only
i (: —the former says it is God that decrees ; the latter says the stars do the
j a I work, not only of decreeing but executing also. But who can accept
\) i either and not surrender his personality, his freedom, his independence, his
m win?*,
i (j The dreams which I shall now proceed to detail, called to mind the above
| (i views of the author quoted.
. I); Mrs. Y. dreamed one night that her husband, while felling a tree, was
i (I struck by it and killed instantly. She saw the tree, as it fell, strike a neigh
I (i bouring tree, glance off, and with a mightv force strike her husband in the
! \ | back as he started to run for safety, crush him to the earth and instantly
i i \ destroy his life. She further saw the men with great labour remove the
I1 i fallen tree, and take up the dead body and place it in a two-horse wagon,
! drawn by horses of a given colour, driven by a gentleman whom she knew,
and thus conveyed to nis former home. She also saw the body put into a
coffin, trimmed in a given way, three days later, and conveyed to the grave¬
yard in a hearse drawn by four white horses, draped with black crape.
\l\ This dream she related in the morning, but no special importance was
I attached to it—the whole case being referred to the fact that the lady’s
mind was running upon the possibility of accident to her husband during the
I previous day. Rot tne dream was repeated the next night, and the next, and
the next, until the woman was driven almost to distraction. The preacher
and the doctor were both sent for, and in their puny way tried to prove to
j her that it was only a dream, that her mind had got to running in that
1 channel and she could not discontinue it. And so she kept on dreaming
300
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 20, 1879.
that dream for seven consecutive nights. On the afternoon of the seventh
day the word came that her husband was killed exactly a,s she had seen in
her dreams; he was brought home in a wagon drawn by the horses she
saw, driven by the gentleman she Saw in her dream; and when the body was
buried, it was in the minutest details as she had seen it in her dream. So,
alas 1 ’twas not all a dream. , . B.
The following epitaphs are from a tombstone above an affectionate
married couple:—
“I am anxiously expecting you, A.D. 1827.’'
“Here I.am, A.D. 1867.”
A Darlington correspondent says :—“ Mr. Matthews, respecting whose
mediumship interesting and satisfactory accounts were lately published from
Glasgow, has lately been in Newcastle and Darlington, where he has
given very general satisfaction. At the latter place he attended a
local circle and gave nearly every one present satisfactory tests. There are
several other instances in which his peculiar powers of clairvoyance and
clairaudience were strikingly manifested, not.merely in the presence of
Spiritualists but amongst those who had had no previous experience of the
subject.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
W., Sydney, New South Wales.—The “imposture theory ” is now so much
behind the age that no attention is given to it in these pages.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This hook shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism
is produced by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over
the river of Death. It contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving
that the said spirits are the persons they say they are. The work, from
beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific
methods, giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow
from them afterwards. ,
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of
Spontaneous Apparitions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some
of the phenomena connected with them. The connection between Spontaneous
Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism and Spirit Circles is also
made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work
is almost entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the
trustworthiness of the anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper, and handsomely bound in
half-calf, 8s. 6d., post free. Cloth edition, 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist ~NevrBj>&$ex Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Three Shillings and Sixpence. Imperial 8vo. Red edges.
“ RIFTS IN THE YEIL.”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).M
This book is one of the cheapest and most elegant works ever published
in connection with Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Just Published,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By“M;A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8v6, red edges, price 6s. post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris.
These poems, given while Mr. Harris was In a state of trance, are of rare
literary excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Blomsobury, London,
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol, II. Treating of the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. 6d.
Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. 6d. ; the work complete, 22s. 6d.
jj; CONTENTS:
jf Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
> i Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro *
)j ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un-
/1 conscious Cerebration ; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion ; 6. Body,
< i Mind, and Soul in Health.
(| Bookll.—The Abnormal Action of theMechanism.—Chapter 1. Introduction
(; —The Psychology of the Future ; 2. How to be Pursued ; 3. Objections and
\; Objectors; 4 Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea;
) I 6. How we Know ; 7. Scientific Evidence ; 8. The Plan Proposed.
;| Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep ; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep; 4. The Seat of
u Sleep; 5. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream; 7. ThePsycho-
(! logy of Dream; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
\'\ 10. Conclusions.
(j Book IV.—The Phenomenaof Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
| 2. Insanity.
) | Book V. The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
}; Somnambulism; 3. Natural Somnambulism; 4. Artificial Somnambulism;
/; 5. ThePhencmena of Artificial Somnambulism ; 6. The Physiology of Somnam-
t\ bulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
(: Book VI.—Superseusuous Perception.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The
i Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The Phenomenaof Trance
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII.—Psychism. — Introduction; Chapter 1. Objections and
fi Objectors; 2, The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force ; 4. The Methods of Inves-
t j tigation ; 5. The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic; 7. The Physio-
\ i logy of Psychic Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence ; 9. Phenomena of
(j Psychism; 10. More Phenomena of Psychism; 11. Other Phenomena of
j; Psychism; 12. Communicated Phenomena; 13. The Physiology and Psy-
) i chology of Psychism.
) i Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up; 2. Conclusions.
ji LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
(i Just Published.
): Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red edges.
I ■ A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
I Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit*
i ualism, and setting forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BT
j| LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
(| Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
(I The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
j| Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
I A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
(j Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious
j i Philosophy,
j By W. Wr. CLARK.
j I Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place
ji and Function — Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism — Tho
j j Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Place and Human
): Elements. a;
)i London : Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
si Just Published.
(i Price 2s. 61., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS,
jj By Captain John James
/1 (Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
j| A text-book by an author who has had thirty years’ experience in
ji Mesmerism.
jj The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
1' i Price Two Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
j observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Jttev\ew,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
June 20, 1879.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHO¬
LOGY, MESMERISM, ANTHROPO¬
LOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has
been rented on the premises of the National Association of
Spiritualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist News¬
paper and publishing business are not in any way connected
with each other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crooks, F.R.S. The best work
ever published to scientifically demonstrate the reality
of some of the.physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to
reveal to him by vision events connected with the early
history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus
saw the Mastodon and other extinct animals as if living
and moving before them; they likewise saw the scenes
by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions
of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation
of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engrav¬
ings, drawn by the sensitives as the visions passed
before their eyes. The substance of a review of this
book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect that there
is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants
who would not cheat him. The question as to the
reliability of the narratives therefore narrows itself down
to the question of the reliability of clairvoyance, which,
when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate
results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary
communication should be established, it will be by
means of clairvoyance or some other of the latent and
little understood spiritual powers in man. Three vols.
24s. ; or 8s. per single volume.
WORKS BI ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .76
The Seer. „III. „ . ,76
The Reformer; ,, IV. ,, . ,76
The Thinker. ,, V. ,, . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Afabula, or Divine Guest . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology . .50
Answers to Ever-recurrring Questions from the People. 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . ,36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .36
Harbinger of Health . , . . .76
Harmonial Man ; or. Thoughts for the Age . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Proviuenoe . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . .76
Philosophy of SpirituaT Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life: or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves. .70
The Fountain, With Jets of New Meanings . .60
Tale of a Physician: or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . -.76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
Oriental Religion (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little
book, recommended by Thb Spiritualist news¬
paper . . . . . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing
interesting particulars and legends relating to
Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . , .15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale
Owen . ,... . . .76
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the
Zulus, by the Rev Henry Gallaway, M.D. In six
parts . . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into
English, with Preliminary Essays and Explana¬
tory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and S iperstitions
interpreted by Comparative Mythology, by John
Fiske, M.A 10 6
Awas-I-Hind: or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an
Indian Officer , . . . . .50
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into
English from the Chinese Classes, by James Legge,
D.D., LL.D. 12 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P.
Brown, Secretary of the Legation of the United
States of America at Constantinople . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia,
North Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin
Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahom-
med. Translated into English immediately from
the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal deludes psycho-
logiques, fond 6 par Allan Kardec. appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Societe
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M, Leymarie.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price Five Shillings. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYOHOGRAPHY.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbd—Crookes.
- Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That attested by the senses :—
1. —Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Barns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. —Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
George King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls,
Baroness Von Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.
Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan, Epes Sargent, James O’ Sargent, John
Wetherbee, H. B. Storer, C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee
with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the
Psychic :—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr.
Blackburn (Slade) ; Dutch, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese (Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame
Blavatsky (Watkins); Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timay-
enis (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Prepa¬
ration of the Writing :—
Psychics and Conjurers Contrasted ; Slade before the
Research Committee of-the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.;
Evidence of—Rev. J. Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J.
Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely screwed
together—Evidence of Mrs. Andrews and J. Mould; Dicta¬
tion of Words at the Time of the Experiment—Evidence of—
A. R. WaUace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.,
Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld, M.D., Miss
Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside a
Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck
were conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with
White Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the subject of the
Prosecution of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and
Professor Barnett, F R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist. .
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: its Mode of Opera'ion—Evidence
of C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intellivence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Oculist’s Theory; The Spirit¬
ualist’s Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Appa¬
ritions—The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox,
J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers, D. D. Hume, and
Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II. — Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—Emerson
—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits atjMoravia, N.Y.,
and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—
Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship
of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Ex¬
periments—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox>—The Dialec¬
tical Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Sub¬
stances P — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits —
Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Descartes—Spinoza
—Herbert Spencer—Swedenborg—Proo& of Spirit Power
over Matter—Testimony of S. O. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit — The Senses—
Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine
of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship — Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dumphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmore,
Mrs, Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—Conclusive Experi¬
ments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr.
C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seer-
ahip—Swedenborg—Kardeo—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge
— Bacon — Luther—Calvin — Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-
Materialisation of Clothing and Ornaments.
Chaftbr XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in
God — Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine
Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—
The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Mora'ity — Sin
Punishes Itself — A Moral Creed — The Teachings of
Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections
to Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubb e—
James Martineau—Yoysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Fac ts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit Photo-
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—
onoluding Reflections.
London, W.C, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
iii
Price 3s. 0d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“BIFTS IN THE YEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritu¬
alists. A useful book to place in the public libraries, and to
present or send to those who are unacquainted with Spiritu¬
alism. It contains much about the religious aspect of
Spiritualism (given through the writing mediumship of
“M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of the most refined and elegant
works ever printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 01 Beautiful White Mother Death.” : Given through
the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophje Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Hams.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit.. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens.
How the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist,
Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a Secret!,A Majestic Mind
Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr.' Peter Peck-
craft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments..
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon
(Miss Treherne) and Mrs. —.
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-medium¬
ship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “Adamanta.”-
XL—Swedenborg on Hen and Women, By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and' other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A.
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marrj at.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departel.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia 0. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXU —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXHI.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritual¬
ism.By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. ’ By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and. Modern Spiritualism, By
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisling-
bury from the German of Schiller.
XXVII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Chris¬
tianity. Given through the mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D..
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat,
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“M.A., Qxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wortherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritu-
alism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fasirs in
India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzis)
by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex,
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey;
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation
to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLTV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G,S,
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey. .
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
Formerly issued Quarterly at 2s. 6d.; is now published
Monthly at 6d., or 7s. per annum in advance, post free.
CONTENTS EOR MAY.
The Existing Breach between Modem Culture and the
Popular Faith; by John S. Farmer—An English Seeress of
the 17th Century; by J. W. F.—Spiritualism in Chili; by
Perigrinus—Some Spiritual Experiences of the Celebrated^
Italian Physician, Jerome Cardan; by A. M. H. W.—A Priori
Proof of the Probable Truth of Spiritualism; by Alex. Munro,
M.D.— Progression by Antagonism; by M.—The Future of
Spiritualism; by Thomas Shorter.
London : E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Glasgow: Hay Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework-lane. --
P. O. Orders payable to Hay Nisbet and Co,, as above.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKfiR
To Her Majesty’s Military anh Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can
be given. 5 per cent for cash.:
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON N.W
iv
Just Published.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo,
richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE I M A GIN IN G S
BY WILLIAM H. HABBISOY.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton
and the Author.
CoiTTBKTS.
Pabt 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the News¬
paper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The
Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. ThePoetry of Science.
—7. How Hadji A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter
from Hadji A1 Shacabac, a gentleman who visited London
on business connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at
Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gardener.—
ll._“Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12 Our Raven.—13. Material¬
istic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Photographer.—15. How
to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song op
the Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-
Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. ” Under the
Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence*
Pabt 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at
Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s Lament.—29.
The July Bug.—30. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in
review nearly a column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming
a thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr.
Harrison, exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the
praise of all who are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent
laugh. Not that his muse restricts herself only to such
lighter utterances ; on the contrary, some of his poems
touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his
adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years.
. . . The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome
from which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The
Morning Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“Noone can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes are
pitched in “something like the same key as The Bon
Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably
successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. , . . Occasionally we find verse
of great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure
poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour
should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings.
Written, printed, published and reviewed by William H.
Harrison (38, Great Russell-street). Both the verses and the
short essays are really funny, and in some of the latter there
is a vein of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fhn.
The Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rat her severe,
and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers J but one of the most
laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be
photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse. . . . Some of the
m etrical legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be
sung at the meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or
fifteen years ago. Mr. Harrison, however, knows where to
plant his fun, and an accurate scientific mind like his can
make jokes with success. ... To all who wish to read a
pleasant volume magnificently got up as a gift-book, we
commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The BooJcseller.
“ An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and'others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original,
and not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases
alluded to, and the imprint bears that the work is published
‘a.d. 1877 (popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada);
a.m. 60,800,077 (Huxley).’ We believe that our readers
may derive a little amusement from a perusal of the
volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of
which are in verse and others in prose, some scientific,
others social, but all of them excellent. . . . The Lazy Lays
will make excellent and amusing reading for an occasional
spare half-hour. . . . They contain nothing unrefined or in
bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photo¬
graphed, is well done. . . . Bound in a cover of somewhat
powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar
in connection with photographic and other scientific
literature, has considerable facility of versification, and
deals, in pleasant and humorous mood, with many scientific
follies which are better laughed down than gravely dis¬
puted.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with
a due foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle,
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has
produced a most welcome book. ... ‘ How Hadji A1
Shacabac was Photographed ’ will be sure to make every
reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be
expected that his subjects should bear some trace of this
peculiar idiosyncrasy, and indeed they are as free and easy
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 20, 187(1.
as himself. ... The poems are all characterised by smooth¬
ness and rhythmical swing. . . '. Theworkis very elaborately
bound in cloth and gilt. . . . A gorgeous design upon the
»cover. . . . If our readers wish to encourage laziness, they
have a most deserving object in a very clever and versatile
member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier,
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays,
Mr. William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its
appearance and entertaining in its contents. . . . The author
is imbued with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all
while offending none ”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison
a well-known contributor to the London and provincia1
press, and editor of The Spiritiiulist. . . . Many of the
humorous poems reminds us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The
Lay of the Photographer, The Lay of the Mace-bearers, and some
of The Wobblejaw Ballads would not have been unworthy of
Barhem himself. Some of the shorter poems are exquisite,
and there pervade through the whole a religious sentim ent
and poetie feeling which will make them acceptable to most
readers.”
From the Daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is * How Hadji A1 Shacabac
was Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not
too extensive comic literature. The story is one of which
extracts would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely
humorous. . .■. Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-
book of an amusing nature, will find what they want in The
Lazy Lays."
From The BHstol Daily Post.
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . . . The serious and sentimental verses belong to
the type of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.:
“It is after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain,
or any of those merry souls who do quite as much good in
their day and generation as the authors of the most serious
works. The Lays are always original, sometimes serious,
generally comic, but never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast or its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty ;
full of lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts,
abounding in tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit
and humour; and one that may be read many times over. .
. . The get-up of the book is very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled 1 The Wobblqjaw Ballads,’
which appeared in the columns of this paper a short time
ago. and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.
An irate member of the Town Council officially called the
attention of the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the
burlesques in the ‘ Wobblejaw Ballads,’ but the members
assembled laughed at the matter, and proceeded to the next
business. The Mayor said that he did not mind them.] . . .
“ It contains some very choice poems and prose essays, is
bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original design of no
ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Pbize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF spirit¬
ualism UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the Fibst and Second Gold Medals oe
the British National Association oe Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; or, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
petting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.8., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Proto¬
plaster, in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It
is an excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men and disbelievers in Spiritualism generally. A review
of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet
displays real genius. Price 6d.; post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
AT MRS. PARKER’S, 3, BLOOMSBURY
PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,LONDON, W.C.,
a Philosophical and Developing Circle is being formed.
Those wishing to join will please send in their names. Terms
on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance j she is replying to sealed questions when con¬
ditions favour. Office hours ftom 12 to 6 o’clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena
for a lengthered period, and deals in an intelligent manner
with the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols.,price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. pervolume.
London : Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size
of those of The Engineer newspaper), strongly and hand¬
somely bound in one, in half calf, red edges. They contain
records relating to Spiritualism in Great Britain from the end
of the year 1869 to the end of .1872, and aiticles and letters
by Messrs. A. R., Wal’ace, W. Crookes, C. F. Varley, The
Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of how
the Royal Society and British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr.
Crookes’s papers cn the physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
as the Royal Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery
of lightning conductors. Very scarce. These two volumes
cannot be had separately. Price, carriage paid to any rail¬
way station in the United Kingdom, £1 10s.
London : W. H, Habbison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, .
By ihe late Wm. ’Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its
quality and size, the cheapest large work ever published in
this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS. *
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism-
Sensations—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep
or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Bleep-
Walkers—Phenomena of the bleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over
the Subject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feel¬
ings in the Look and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthful¬
ness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep
Caused by Silent Will ; and at a Distance—Attraction
Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Com¬
mands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations
of Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhi¬
bitions of Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the By¬
standers—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medica
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Anti¬
pathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER TVDirect Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision,
without the Eyes—Vision of Near Object: through Opaque
Bodies ; at a Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in
Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc..
Predicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of
the Seer—Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting
Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—
Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of
Speech and of Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—
Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI :—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-
Psychology and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Pheno-
mena of Suggestions in the Conscious or Waking State—
Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised
by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The
Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The
Subjectmustbe Studied.
CHAPTER VTI :—Trance, Natural and Accidental
Mesmeric—Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col,
Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not all Impostors—
Luminous Emanations — Extasis oiten Predicted—M.
Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phre¬
nology—Effects of Teaching the Head in the Sleep—^Variety
in the Phenomena—Suggestions—Sympathy—There are
Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do not
Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible
of Mesmerism—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—
Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the
Human Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is
Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the
Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phanomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—
Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—
Physiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insanity,
Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism ,
and Tracea to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sigh t
is Waking Clairvoyance-Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena
Attempted or Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally
Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the Medium of
Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of
the Subject—Effects of Odyle— Somnambulisn—Suggestion—
Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Eman¬
ations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid
Perception of the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of
Science—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints
— Conditions of Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure
—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomei a Observed in the Conscious
or Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an
Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and With¬
out Suggestion— Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—
Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or
by Concentration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The
Magic Crystal Induces Waking Lucidity, when Gazed at—
Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—
Cases—Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the
Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced with¬
out the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—
Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathic Clairvoyance in
the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Frank¬
lin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovi-ion.
CHAPTER XIV :—Direct Clairvoyance—Oases—Travel¬
ling Clairvoyance—Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—
Letters of 'Two Clergymen, with Cases—Clairvoyance of
Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous
Mesmeric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con¬
cluding Remarks, and Summary.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. ‘
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidgb & Co., at the
Bolbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar jtnd Sc. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
