Registered A.S a Newspaper.
(Dltef ^ixrs|ra:pr bif^ Sprxiwalxsm m <&xmt §nfam*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. . MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 254. (VOL. XL—No. 1.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY 6, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(EontentsL
Professor Tyndall’s “Evil Eye”... ... '  1
Dr. Carpenter Again  •... ... ... ...   1
The Egyptian Ritual of the Dead  2
The Gradual Development of Mediumsbip. By S. E. De
Morgan       3
Spiritual Influence on Men of Genius  ... 4
Some Reminiscences of Mesmeric Phenomena. By Captain
John James, late of the Ninetieth Light Infantry   4
Spiritual Phenomena   ...    5
Mr. Duguid’s Trances and Direct Spirit-Painting. By Ro¬
bert S. Wyld, LL.D., F.R.S.E     6
“ In the Vault.” By Florence Marryat   ... 7
Poetry:—The Story of the Faithful Soul     ... 8
Correspondence: — Healing Mediumship — Swedehborg-
ianiam v. Spiritualism—The Ideal of Spiritualism—Piano-
Playing : in the Light without Mortal Contact—Spirit
Identity—Strong Physical Manifestations  8
The Three Doctors of Macarthy’s Island. From Savage
jifrica, by the Late W. Win wood Reade   9
Incnbi and Succubts 10
Prevision      11
The National Association of Spiritualists:—The Treatment
of Mediums ...   ' ... ... ... ... ... '... ... .:. 11
Evil Relative not Positive ...   12
Paragraphs:—The Divining Rod, 1; A New Book by the
Countess of Caithness, 1 ; “The Heathen Chinee,” 1;
Is it True ? 3 ; Mr. W. Lawrence, 3; A Superstition,
5; New Work by Madame Blnvatsky, 7; The Unseen
World, 7; Dr. Slade, 11; Spiritualism in Liverpool, 11;
Life’s Discipline     ... 11
Answers to Correspondents    ... 12
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rnHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
•*t oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science’’ (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Caider, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
’ Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin,); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the’’Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London"; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.SA.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); -Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
AU communications on the_ business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H.‘Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell street, London, W,C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
Agenda for July, 1877.
Friday, Sth.—Library Committee, at 6 p.m.
Tuesday, 10th.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.tn.
,, „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Business:
Ordinary; Arrangements during Secretary’s
absence; Mr. Joy's deferred motion on
altering hour of Council Meeting from 6.30
to 5.30 ; Reports of Committees.
Friday, XZfh.—Seance Commit’ee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
The Experimental Rasearch Committee will meet every
succeeding Friday in the month, at 6.30 p.m.
SEAN CES.
Physical seances for Enquirers are for the present held
every Friday evening at 8 o’clock. Medium, Hr. O. E.
Williams; Applications for seats at these seances must in
all cases be made in advance. Tickets to Members, Is. each.
A Trance seance will be held every Tuesday evening, at 8,
o’clock, during the month, except on Tuesday, July 10th*
Medium, Mr. J. W. Lawrence.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-eoad-nohth, Brixton;
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of hooks' on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c,, apply,
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SeO.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Oaxton celebration), is a Self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Its work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., &c., post free 13 stamps.
0. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees. |
22, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
A “Model” Press on view at Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell street, W.C.
Price from 30s. to .£9 10s.
HENRY D. JENCKEN) ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and. Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and\Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Button
Temporary Rooms—72, Navarino-road, Dalston,
London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to specialsCances with professional media, lectures, discus^
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have! the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively. ,
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
TO RENT OR PURCHASE.
OUSE WANTED, at Michaelmas, or
before, situated in Dalston, and convenient of access
to the North London Railway; to contain eight or nine rooms,
in good and thorough repair. Rent not to exceed £40 per
annum. If to be sold, state full particulars and lowest price
to Alpha, 72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
 ;  E. W, WALLIS, Manager.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales’of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Mediciiie) ‘
PEAR’S TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear’s, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.  
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851. —
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances, dheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is.open until 9 in, .the.Eveniug.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, mav be bad on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
HATCHARD’S DUPLEX FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or dosed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &c.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATOHARD & CO.,
FUNERAL FURNISHERS, &C.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsdan, Editor and Proprietor, •
1, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E,
ii
THE SPIEITUALIST,
July 6, 1877
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander C alder. Esq., i, Hereford-square, West Brompton,,S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury,-Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. ,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall,2l, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Hi'nywood, Mrs., 52, Warwiok-square, S.w.
Jcncken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place. W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Einchley,N. ,
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tempieman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dnnkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd,"J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Altred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawsosi, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Gosw'ell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. VV. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richards 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Belmers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Strawhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclilfe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
W hite, J., Hemlock-house .Leeds. ]
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square. West Brompton, S.W. -
Wiseman, Mrsy 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withail, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr, J. E. Andre. Mr. H. Cook.! Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
, M. de Bassompierre, 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre, Etterfepck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz,' President de PUnion, 67, Rue dn Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Bamssels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D.,Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
I Le Comte tie Bullet, Hotel dp 1’Atlienee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
1 J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-plaee, Diorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton,F.R.G.S.,H.M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A, R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
' W. S. Gpdbe, Esq., Salt LakeCity,/(Jtah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery^place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Beigrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stra'til, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,M. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirlta Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soon as Mrs. W eldon has obtained
600 subscribers at 6s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolner, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the hook.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.G.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Frederick
A. Binnby.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,• E.C.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little hook for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Carnp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasstm Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
Phe Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Ouldenstuhbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Ve.h, 26. Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris. -
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Go.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearycband Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne,
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H, Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipslc, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,986, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A,
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A,
J. II. Gledstanes; Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Lather ColbY, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world I Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-massage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Rnesell-Ktreet. London. W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
tubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE FOOD THAT WE LIVE ON. In¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Nowevaper
Branon Office.  
A NNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologiea di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin. Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No, 23.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5, On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MRS. OLIVE pas a FREE- SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual a.t those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. 7. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to he addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.  
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
A engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E. 
Mr. J. W. FLETCHEB,
TRANCE MEDIUM,
14, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, W.C.
HOURS—TWELVE TILL FIVE.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (82 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
pariiculars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sill wood-road
Brighton.
nn L, HENLY, Mesmerist, 5, St. James’s-
-B • terrace, Notting-hill. “ Your treatment of insanity is
excellent.”—George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Oumberland-place,
Hyde-park, to whom reference is permitted.
MRS. PARKER Lectures on all Social
Reform Subjects,' and attends Drawing Room Dis¬
cussions. Now at Pekin House, 11, Elizabeth-place, Jersey
Hours from 12 to 5.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist," 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
'EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo ■
BALD. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
he had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
A CATALOGUE of a most extraordinary
callection of six hundred works on Alchemy, Appari¬
tions. Astrology, Chiromancy, Dreams, Geomancy, Mesmerism,
Physiognomy, Psychology. The Rosicrucians, Freemasons, and
Mystics, Sorcery and Witchcraft, with some curious miscel¬
laneous books, will be sent post free on receipt of six penny
stamps, which will be returned to purchasers by John Wilson,
12, King William-street, Charing-croas.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Contaming instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Brancn Office, price
300for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6c?., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOB DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit ciicles are not
numerous.
f The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families, ^. pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,’
Jlstrmjit xif i|| xif l|| p|{|^ ntfo x$ JjpiijiimtHsm*
Volujvie E^evejh. Number One.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 6th, 1877.
PROFESSOR TYNDALL’S “EVIL EYE.”
During the latter part of the Royal Institution session |
just closed, Professor Tyndall delivered a long series of I
deeply interesting lectures on heat, illustrated by experi- :
ments made by the aid of the extensive stock of scientific I
apparatus which has accumulated on the premises during |
half a century. He separated the invisible from the visible i
rays of the sun, and with the invisible rays set fire to zinc |
foil, and performed a number of experiments, proving their j
potency in mundane phenomena. Not satisfied with this, he |
committed aggressive acts in relation to those not working |
in his somewhat narrow materialistic groove, in which groove I
he is as perfect as a most excellent blacksmith, who executes j
with <c mechanical veracity” duly appreciated by the ob- i
servers, any order given to him by an architect more related j
than himself to the ideal, the spiritual, and the eternally j
real. To a mind of his order—which has done its best to j
forge a materialistic religion as a blacksmith would forge a |
horse-shoe—it is disappointing to be obliged to beg the ques- j
tion of the foundations of the belief, by attributing certain j
characteristics to alleged ultimate atoms which nobody has j
ever seen, and which may possibly not exist at all, except as a j
fetish. Professor Tyndall’s latest vagary was to gaze down j
the conical cap of his thermo-pile, when the heat radiated |
from his eye, two feet off, caused the iron galvanometer |
needle connected with that most delicate instrument to I
swing round. Now,” said he, ((if I chose to adopt the I
example of certain people who are active nowadays, I j
might say that that motion of the needle is due to the oc- j
cult power of my eye, but it is due simply to the heat; I I
am not breathing on the pile.” This, of course, was a rap j
at Spiritualism, respecting the phenomena of which he has
such deplorable want of knowledge, and is such an untrust¬
worthy guide. To show how mistaken he is as to the calibre
of Spiritualists, when he brings his u evil eye ” to bear
upon bars of antimony and bismuth, he may be reminded j
that some time ago he asked a Royal Institution Friday I
evening audience to look at the u black smoke” arising from
an alcohol flame into the path of a beam of light from the i
electric lamp, and he harped upon the same fact half the i
evening. One Spiritualist present turned to another and
said: u What does he mean? That is not black smoke!
The apparent blackness is due to the dispersion by the flame
of the floating particles of dirt in the air, which particles
reflect light wherever they are present.” Towards the close j
of his lecture Professor Tyndall stated this to be the true
explanation, but the assertion which he thought calculated i
to mislead for half an hour a highly cultured Royal Institu¬
tion audience, was too transparent to be received by some of j
the Spiritualists present.
DR. CARPENTER AGAIN.
A well-written article by Mr. William Crookes appears |
in the Nineteenth Century^ convicting Dr. Carpenter of mis- j
quotations, and pointing out to the public that he knows |
scarcely anything of the nature of those psychological j
phenomena about which he speaks so fluently to applauding
audiences consisting of the ignorant who trust in his j
authority. We have shorthand notes of Dr. Carpenter’s last
lecture delivered in Finsbury Chapel, but have not thought |
them worth printing ; to those acquainted with the subject, |
his utterances there were so much behind the age as to afford
no materials for rational controversy, and it is perhaps as
well, in all cases, to avoid contention. Our plan with Dr. j
Carpenter, and others like him, has been to get on record in |
these pages the documents or utterances whereby their j
names are committed to a denial of the eternal facts and j
phenomena of nature, so that when their lives fall into the 1
cold impartial grasp of posterity, their historical reputations
shall have justice meted out to them. We know perfectly
well what the verdict will be, and in the meantime they had
better make the most of the popular applause of the ignorant
which they are gaining by the way in which they use their
“ little brief authority.” In many respects we greatly admire
Dr. Carpenter, who is a great physiologist, and an interest¬
ing and entertaining lecturer upon subjects he understands,
among which psychology cannot be included. After leaving
a lecture of his on Spiritualism, the informed listener
emerges into the fresh air with all the feelings of relief in¬
cidental to emerging from the Catacombs of Egypt, as the
ideas and the supposed facts put forward by him belong to a
past age, and are everywhere steeped in the atmosphere of
the grave. The very books on psychology he recommends
for perusal have been so long dead and buried, that his dis¬
interment of them provokes a pitying smile.
A New Book by the Countess of Caithness.—We lhave just re¬
ceived from the Countess of Caithness, a new book written by herself,
entitled, Serious Letters to Serious Friends. It popularises the doc¬
trines of Allan Kardec, and deals extensively with some of the re¬
ligious aspects of modern Spiritualism. The book meets a public want,
that is to say, meets the requirements of those who wish by means of
a comparatively brief outline, to learn without much effort to them¬
selves the nature of the religious ideas so prevalent among Spiritualists
in France, and in some other parts of the Continent. Mr. Triibner,
who has done so much to make known in this country, without pre¬
judice or the colouring of priestly bigotry, the best aspects of the re¬
ligious ideas sincerely held by all the nations of the earth, is the pub*
lisher of the work, the contents of which well deserve careful con¬
sideration.
The Divining Rod.—By the way, I found out the other day that
the belief in divination has not yet wholly died out of the Cornish
mining districts. Instead of using a divining rod, however, when you
want to find out where a mine is, you get a short forked stick, and
placing your jaw in the fork the stick will gradually bend down when
you walk over a part of the earth which is rich in mineral treasures.
There is a certain gentleman in Cornwall somewhere who, although a
scientific chemist, and up to every wrinkle of the nineteenth century
civilisation, is ready to swear that he just discovered through this
magic a mine which he is about to work. You must know that when,
on finding your mine, you have dug some distance into the earth, you
ought to find a large piece of stone. This is called a . horse,” no doubt
as a sort of pun on the “ lode ” of metal underneath. I can vouch for
having heard the story above first-hand, though as to the mysticism
you had better write to The Spiritualist to learn the truth of it.—The
Pictorial World.
“The Heathen Chinee.” — It appears that Ten Wing Tze Way
Shin Shuo Shing Tze Way Shing Show Tan Tze Way Eeo Ton
Ye Che Poh Kow Shu Yu Lee Yeh Wong Chin Foo is the sonorous
name of a Chinese savan who has lately been holding forth to intelli¬
gent audiences in New York City, lecturing on the subject of Budd¬
hism, Christianity, and the immortality of the soul, and who seemingly
sustains his side of the question against all opposition. He enthusi¬
astically says :—“ The Chinese invented the art of printing, made the
first compass, the first porcelain, the first gunpowder, the first cannon,
the first system of laws. You must not judge the Chinese from those
who emigrate to America. They are the lowest part of the Chinese
population. There are ten times as many murders in the United
States as in China with ten times the population. The best and most
highly educated men are selected for rulers. They are not selected by
ballot, but are trained for their places, and are chosen only after a
thorough competitive examination, which eliminates all the inferior
material. The religion of China is not heathenism; it teaches immor¬
tality and obedience to a supreme spirit. It has all the essentials of
Christianity. There have never been any religious persecutions in
China, while thousands of men, women, and children, have been
slaughtered in Christian countries on account of differences in religious
belief. ‘A tree is known by its fruit.’” We rejoice that Ten Wing,
&c., is making an effort to reform this country. In China the best
and most highly educated are selected for rulers, while in this country,
the bummer, the gambler, the knock-down politician and disreputable
saloon keeper, are often placed in a position where they can swindle
the people. We hope that Ten Wing Tze Way Shin Shuo Shing Tze
"Way Shing Show Tan Tze Way Keo Ton Ye Che Poh Row Shu Yu
Lee Yeh Wong Chin Foo will come to Chicago and establish a mis¬
sionary society. He should have a tabernacle erected at once, and
should go in like Moody, on his voice and muscle.—Religio-Philosophi¬
cal Journal.
2
July 6, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE EGYPTIAN KITUAL OF THE DEAD.
In an article in the last number of the Dublin University
Magazine, Dr. Keningale Cook gives a most interesting
summary, from The Book of the Deads of the belief of the
ancient Egyptians as to the processes and trials the freed
spirit has to pass through in the next world after the death
of the body. The narrative is a long one, and we make from |
it the following quotation :—
The scene now enlarges itself, and the action becomes
higher. We approach the Hall of the Two Truths, and the
majestic drama of the Judgment.
The Great God, Osiris, the Lord of Truth, sits on a lofty |
throne, wearing a mitre of gold with long feathers attached
to each side, and balancing either way; he holds a sceptre, j
the crosier of authority, and the Tau cross, or emblem of
life; and the flabellum of justice rests upon his shoulder.
Mystic serpents are in the canopy above him. He is mild¬
faced, but inexorably calm, as Rhot-amenti, or judge of the
unseen life, of the hidden being; he is the great prototype
of the deity known to the Greeks as Rhadamanthus.
Before the divine Judge are placed sin offerings, and near
him are seated the four mediators, or daimonic genii of the dead.
Beneath his footstool is the dark cavern of descent to the
world of chastisement. The deceased man holds up his
hands in prayer, and is supported by the sister goddesses,
Isis and Nephthys, the spirits of the upper and lower
heavens respectively; each wears on her head the emblem of
truth. In front of the Judge is the dragon (the Cerberus of !
the Greeks), guarding the mouth of the regions of death,
and taking the part of accuser or diabolos. Ranged around
the Judgment Hall are forty-two assessors, whose preroga- j
tive it is to examine the prisoner and report, each having his
special province and function.
A large pair of scales is in the midst, presided over by
attendant deities. In the one scale is placed the conduct or
character of the deceased, typified by the heart (or the
funeral vase that held it) ; in the other is the ostrich feather,
or the figure of the Goddess of Truth—Thmei, the Greek j
Themi, the Hebrew Thummim. A small weight is moved
along the beam, to make a balance, and so determine how
much the heart falls short of its standard. Horus, the re¬
deemer and divine son, takes the suppliant shade by the
hand, and pleads his merits before the calm Osiris. Thoth, j
the deity of letters, as recording angel, inscribes on his j
tablets the actions of the deceased, and presents them before j
the Judge. The door of entrance is guarded, retreat is
impossible; the trembling creature is before the tribunal of j
infallibility, with his heart all open to view, and his every
action weighed in the balance. Osiris was president over i
judgment rather than judge; the recorded actions spoke for
themselves; there was no impugning facts in the pure j
spiritual light; the conscience of the awakened spirit saw
itself in the true bill of the jury, and in the verdict of the j
balance.
The sentence of doom being favourable, the spirit is
designated the makkru, or justified, a word which is pre¬
sumably the origin of the Greek makar or makarios, which
comes down to us in the epithet of the Beatitudes, which we
have translated u blessed.” The virtuous soul is now ad¬
mitted to the heavenly regions, before the entrance to which
sits Harpakrut—Horus the child, the Greek Harpocrates,
the type of youth and renewal of life; his finger on his lip, rj
in symbol, not of secrecy, but of infancy.
Of these heavenly regions there were extended and varied !!
ideas ; there was within those realms a field of rest extend- T
ing itself at the word of “ the Majesty of the God;” there h
plants grew, and the name of the field was Aalu, which is |j
familiar to us in the word Elysium.
On the sarcophagus of Oimenepthah there is a representa- |<
tion of this judgment of the dead. The soul of a wicked | j
man is being sent to inhabit the body of a pig; the Egyptian ' i j
view as to which animal is manifest from the phrase found /i
in the Ritual, “the abomination of a great pig.” On a : H
papyrus a soul is similarly pourtrayed as . being sent into the | j
body of a ram. Here we see an appreciation of the law i j
that underlies the theory of transmigration, that the‘human j
spirit assimilates its form to its own ideal. The spirit is *
| | impure, it takes a swinish shape. This belief was probably
| | not unknown to the Jews ; indeed we have proof that they
| | discussed the question of the effect upon the condition of a
||| man’s life of his pre-existent qualities. It would seem not
m unlikely, then, that the doctrine may have had to do with
j the growth of the strange legend of the Gospel of the flight
11 of a flock of demons into the bodies of a herd of swine. If
I in Egypt a man accidentally touched a pig, we are told by
j Herodotus that he straightway rushed into the river to cleanse
}| himself.
When the soul, unworthy of the mansions of the blessed,
I has been dismissed at the Judgment to an incarnation
j suitable to his propensities, the communication between him
I and the place he has left is shown to be cut off by the pre°
j sentment of a figure hewing away the ground with an axe;
j which may remind us of another physical symbol, the
j “ great gulf fixed,” designating the same truth of severance,
j The sins of which the spirit under trial has to justify
I himself, “ when he has been made to see the Faces of the
| Gods,” are on many and various moral planes. A few may
j be cited from the Ritual. “ Oh, ye Lords of Truth, I have
| brought you Truth. Rub ye away my faults. I have not
j privily done evil against mankind. I have not afflicted
! persons or men. I have not told falsehoods in the tribunal
| of Truth. ... I have not made the labouring man do more
>1 than his task daily. ... I have not been idle. ... I have
II not made to weep. ... I have not done fraud to men. I
[I have not changed the measures of the country. I have not
p injured the images of the Gods. I have not taken scraps of
!| the bandages of the dead. I have not committed adultery.
|| ... I have not withheld milk from mouths of sucklings,
j ... I have not netted sacred birds. I have not caught the
j fish which typify them. ... I have not stopped a God
j from his manifestation.” To each assessor he proclaims a
I separate quality of innocence. The proclamation of the
| virtue of the justified soul is full of beauty, and may remind
I us of familiar scenes in our own sacred tradition. “ Let the
| Osiris go; ye know he is without fault, without soil, without
i sin, without crimes. Do not torture, do not anything against
| him. He lives off truth, he is fed off truth, he has made
| his delight in doing what men say and the gods wish. The
| God has welcomed him as he has wished. He has given food
| to my hungry, drink to my thirsty ones, clothes to my naked,
I he has made a boat for me to go by. He has made the sacred
I food of the Gods, the meal of the spirits. Take ye them to
| him, guard ye them for him.”
The passage we have italicised, and indeed the whole
I action of the Judgment, we may consider in relation to the
I august circumstances of the Great Assize as portrayed in the
| Gospels (Mat. xxv. 31 and seq.) The deputy King there
I says to the justified souls, “ Come, ye blessed of my Father,
| inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of
I the world. For I was hungry and ye gave me to eat; I was
| thirsty and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger and ye re-
| ceived me; naked, and ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye
, I visited me; I was in prison and ye came unto me. ...
Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye did it unto the least
|| of these my brethren, ye did it unto me.” With this latter
jj part may be specially compared the converse thought of the
> | Egyptian prophet: he that gives food to the hungry, clothes
II to the naked, “ has made a boat for me to go by ;” in other
| words, has made ready the way of the Lord, or been the
> channel whereby the goodness of God is borne in unto man.
i In one we have the divine assurance, In feeding the hungry,
| ye fed me; iu the other, In feeding the hungry, ye enabled
1 me to feed them.
i Before the acquitted spirit may leave the Hall of Judg-
|| ment, his knowledge or virtue is repeatedly made proof of.
'| Each part of the hall, its. door, sill, and lintels, refuse to
I open to him, or to let him pass over unless he tells their
II name and meaning. The pure floor will not let him tread
I upon it without the name or purport of his feet being given,
j Finally, says the doorkeeper, “You have not passed yet,
!| unless you tell me my name.” “Toucher of hearts,
1 ' Searcher of the reins,” is the reply; and the spirit, by the
j; aid of Thoth, here called the Reckoner of the Earth, is
I introduced to the regions beyond; past the roads of darkness,
f and far from the abode whose ceiling is of flame, and its
1 ' Circuit of undying basilisks.
HOW TO TRY REMARKABLE EXPERIMENTS
AT HOME.
INQUIRERS into the phenomena of Spiritualism shcmld
I begin by forming1 circles, in their own homes,: with no
Spiritualist or stranger to the family:present.: e
The assertions, of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery^ are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtainable by private families, with no stranger
present, and- without deception by any member of the
family. At the present time there are only about half-a-
dozen professional mediums for the physical phenomena
in all Great.Britain, consequently,:if these were all trick¬
sters (which they are not), they are soiew in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the founda¬
tion of* the'great, movement of modern Spiritualism.
Readers should protect themselves against any impostors,
who knowing to-the contrary, may hereafter tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by., trying simple home
experimentssWMch. cost nothing, thus learning how egte-
giously; throve are duped who trust in worthless authorises.
Conjurers and their scientific partners, cannot produce
their, results in a house from which they are, excluded; but
private'; families commonly get the real- thing 'With1 no
strangers : present^ .consequently those; who say that the
phenomena are imposture, do not tell the truth..
; One or more persons possessing medial powers- without
knowing iit, are-,to hedfoundi in nearly every;household,
and about-one new eircle- in three, formed according tdthe
following instructions,:obtains the phenomena
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the> sitting of- the: circle.', ■
. 2. Let the circle consist of fomvifive; or sixi individuals,
abouL theisame number of each .'sex.- Sit in subdued,light)
but sufficiontvto allow, everything to ,be seen.oloafly;rQund.
an uncovered wooden table,, with all the palms bf the hands
in contact with its top surface. Wh'ethei' the nands touch
each other or not is Of no importance.1 Any'table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifesta¬
tions, but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first indications will probably be table'tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he-
should talk to the table as to an intelligent being. Let
him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean ‘‘ Yes,” one
means ‘ ‘ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether
the arrangement is understood. If three signals be given
in answer, then say, “If I speak the letters of the alphabet
slowly, will you signal every time I come to the letter you
want, and spell us out a message?” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this
time an intelligent system of communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship,
such as trance or clairvoyance may develope; the better
class of messages, as judged by their religious and philo¬
sophical merits, usually accompany such manifestations
rather than the j more objective phenomena. After the
manifestations are obtained, the observers shouid not go to
the other .extreme* and give way to an excess1 of credulity,
but should believe no more about them or the contents of
messages than they are forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at'the first two stances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium isusuallyfan impulsive indi yidual
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Some of . the above' instructions are quoted from The
Spiritualist newspeiper (Established 1869), price 2^d post
free, published weekly by E. W. Allen; 11 Ave Maria Lane;
London,i EiC.v: lUi dli/f,piste! gal o » f at mortn fie
rj?HE SPlBIfUAlilSt.
July 6, 187?,
The Judgment, it would seem, is but the introduction to
the spiritual regions, where the new comer has yet to learn
to dwell. The purificatory process is represented as con¬
tinuing ; there is a Basin of Purgatorial Fire, guarded by
apes, near the openings of the secret doors of the west.
The spirit is empowered to come in and go forth at will,
severed as he is from earth, with faults obliterated and sins
dissipated that detained him. By reason of this purity,
“ His soul is as a smoke against the devourer of bodies of
the dead, flying over the dead, hidden from the suffocaters.”
Onward le the deceased passes; open ye the gates of the
gateway, prepare ye his hall when he comes. Justify ye his
words against his accusers. There is given him the food of
the Gods of the Gate. There has been made for him the
head attire which belongs to him, as dwelling in the hidden
place, as image of the great waters, true soul of a created
spirit.”
There follows il The Passage to the Sun,” “ the book
of vivifying the soul for ever.” <{ The Osiris serves the
Sun, . . . there are no shades where he is. . . * He
does not walk in the Yalley of Darkness, he does not go
in the Pool of the Damned. He is not in the fissure a
moment. He knows no terror in the place in which he
is.” He daily overthrows the seductive serpent of evil,
by the aid of the deity of redemption, and the goddess of
the vault of heaven, who strengthens him with the water of
life and celestial food.
He is made to approach to see his house in Hades; he
is like the Sun, and is seen as the Sun’s boatman. The
beings of light protect him ; when attack is made against
him, and his heart fails, support is given to him. His
enemies are gods, spirits of the dead; he makes way, he
tows thy boat, his actions are thy actions (the Sun’s),” so
that there is nothing of earth for God or Spirit to attack,
nothing of death for the dead souls to draw down to them¬
selves. The disk of the sun is often represented as his eye,
and similarly the spirit of the individual is regarded as an
eye. [Compare, <£ If thine eye be single thy whole body
shall be full of light.”] “ His eye [his spirit] is at peace
in its place .... the person of the Eye is then before the
Gods. The person shines as he did at first .... The eye
having been veiled before the Lord of that Land (fhe land
of Eternal Birth) it has been made full, and at peace.”
There is held festival of the names of the gods, which the
spirit has to learn; and he is prepared to know Osiris in
every place, under his different names or signs. In the
House of Osiris are seven halls, and the names of these
must be known, as they only admit of entrance to certain
qualities of spirit. The descriptions are pregnant with
meaning. The first is typified as the overthrower of numerous
forms ; perhaps signifying that every shell and subterfuge
has to be thrown away, and the inner spirit to be clearly
manifested as it is. The name written on the hall is Babble;
which doubtless many for long fail to pass. On another is
the legend, “ Great Stopper of the Yain.”
Is it Tbue?—The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago) of June
16th, says:—Dreams are often prophetic, and such must have been
caused by spirit power. In all ages of the world prophetic dreams have
been common. It appears from Harper's that there is in Swaffham
Church, in Norfolkshire, England, a monument to a tinker, who died
two or three centuries since. This man dreamed thrice that if he went
to London and stood on London Bridge he would receive information of
value. Struck by the dream he packed up a few clothes, journeyed to
London—a severe undertaking in those days—and took up his station on
London Bridge, where he kept watch three days. At the end of the
third day he was accosted by a passer-by, to whom, in mortification
of soul, he imparted his dream. The stranger smiled and said: “ You
had better go home, and hereafter pay no attention to your dreams. I
myself, were I disposed to put faith in such things, might even now be
making a journey to a place called Swaffham, in Norfolk; for I
dreamed three times in this week that under an apple tree, in a garden
on the north side of that town, I should find a lot of money; but I have
something better to do than to pay attention to such fancies. Better
go home and attend to your business, my friend.” The tinker went
home, repaired to the spot indicated, dug, and unearthed an iron chest
full of money. On the chest was an inscription, which, being de¬
ciphered, read—
a Where this stood
Is another twice as good.”
It is needless to say that the tinker dug again, unearthed a pot twice
as large as the first, full of good coin, became a leading citizen of the
place, and built a new chancel to the church.
iTHE GRADUAL DEVELOPMENT OF MEDIUMSHIP*
BY S. E. DE MORGAN.
There are several circumstances connected with the development
of each form of mediumship, and each individual medium, which have,
I think, not been observed or regularly formulated. These show that,
like everything else in creation, development takes place from within
outwards—from centre to circumference.
I will take the raps. When a medium’s power first shows itself in
this form, the sounds are very faint and weak, sometimes almost like
creaks, as if mixed with movements, and close to the hand or person of
the medium, who often feels something like a small shock at each rap.
They then assume a more distinct form, becoming more clear and
resonant, and sounding farther off. This goes on till at length they
pass through the medium almost without his or her consciousness, and
are heard in every part of the room.
The writing, which is generally the next phase, follows the same law.
The hand is moved, and the guiding influence gets control; but at first
the hand-writing is that of the medium, and the phraseology and ex¬
pression unmistakably his or hers. After a time, as the control gains
strength, the manner of the spirit is more recognisable, the spelling is
more characteristic, and the hand is more easily moved. But this is
not all. As in the case of the raps which are heard at last at a distance
from the medium, the writing is thrown off from him, is seemingly (not
really) more independent of his brain, and becomes what is called direct.
Yet, even in this degree, and with this supposed independence of the
medium’s influence, enough of his own individual character may be
seen to show that his mind and habits of thought contribute to form the
external of the communication. In the direct writings obtained by
Baron Guldenstiibbe on a monument in St. Denis, and elsewhere, one
peculiar manner of spelling a Greek name proves that the Baron’s own
brain was called into use. In the instances of the ‘ ‘ direct ” Greek
writing obtained by Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood and Mr. Dale Owen
through Dr. Slade, although I am unable to conjecture how, in each case,
the minds of those gentlemen acting harmoniously with the direct
medium, modified the writing—its difference affords presumption that it
was so modified—and it would be interesting to trace in the case of each,
what form predominated in the whole influence, so as to give the message
the particular shape it assumed.
In the writing, as in the raps, we see the influence first concentrated
in the medium’s person, and then gradually externalised so as to appear
independent.
The same process may be traced in speaking. At first the medium’s
organs are used, and it is difficult to believe that he or she is not arti¬
culating. Afterwards this difficulty disappears, for the organs of speech
are sometimes quite still, and the voice issues from what looks like a
statue. The transition from this to the “ direct,” or externalised voice
is often very rapid; but even in the direct voice the medium element
may be perceived, especially if the grammar and forms of expression are
not habitually perfect.
I have never had the satisfaction of seeing materialisation, except
| under questionable circumstances. But I have read and heard many
descriptions of these from persons of whose truthfulness no doubt could
be entertained. And all concur in proving that the same order is
followed.
First, the spirit takes possession, and entrances the medium, and
causes him or her to appear at the opening, declaring that the form pre¬
sented is that of the spirit. Under favourable circumstances and with
increased power, the influence gathered from the medium, and the circle
is formed into a new shape, and becomes temporarily the body of the
spirit. As far as I can learn these form manifestations vary very much
in completeness, but this is what might be expected from the process
being a much more delicate and complicated one than in the other forms
of mediumship. What I wish to suggest is that the development of
spirit power from within until it is absolutely projected from the medium
is the same in all cases.
The law of transmission in accordance with the moral and mental
power of the medium’s brain, seems to hold good in all the different
| phases of manifestation, but this is a distinct branch of the subject.
| The Emperor of Brazil, with his physician, went over St. Thomas’s
Hospital on Wednesday morning. His Majesty was received by Mr. F.
Mason, surgeon, and other hospital authorities, and expressed much
pleasure at the state of the institution. Dr. Carter Blake acted as in-
i terpreter.—British Medical Journal.
j Mr. W. Lawrence.—Those who have read the evidence in relation to
materialisation phenomena tested in his own house by Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., and published by him, will see that no proof was
placed before the court which condemned Mr. William Lawrence, that
what took place in the presence of that medium was not the same.
Evidence about the nature of the phenomena was not permitted to be
] given, so Mr. Lawrence in all probability fell a victim to prejudice and
i ignorance. He has sent us the following letter:—“No. 7, Heath-street,
Commercial-road, E., June 27th, 1877. Sir,—I was liberated at nine
a.m. this morning from my imprisonment, and am, through God’s good¬
ness; in good health and cheerful spirits, and hasten thankfully to perform
my first duty of acknowledging the kindness of those who have contri-
!' buted to the support of my wife, children, and self during these eight
months of continued persecution. May He whose attributes are all love
and charity, return these services performed in His name a hundred fold
by renewed blessings.—W. Lawrence, Trance and Physical Medium."
* A paper read /before the National Association of Spiritualists,
4
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Joly 6, 1877.
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCE ON MEN OF GENIUS.
(From the li Denkwilrdigkeiten aus Meinem Leben,'’ vol. ii., pp. 91—97.)
Speaking of the facility of her composition of her romance
of Agathokles, she says :—“ When a thought of this kind has
seized upon me, it acts wonderfully on my interior being.
In this case I was conscious of no real thinking out of my
subject—no invention. I might say that my thought, my
whole condition was passive. It was continually as though
the whole plan or future carrying out of my work lay already
in my mind. It required only the taking up and making
more palpable; and I can compare what went forward in
my soul to nothing more than the revival of an old picture
in it. This is already at hand, and one has no more to do
than, through the proper means, to freshen it up, so that it
may become recognisable. At first the main outlines pre¬
sent themselves, and then, by degrees, the lesser forms
become obvious; then, gradually, the colours show them¬
selves ; and, finally, the picture in all its features, the
drawing, the colouring, &c., stands before our eyes, reveals
itself, without one further conscious effort. Thus it was
with my work. The whole came forth as of itself in my
mind, and appeared to me continually as something given,
not invented by myself.
• u This process which takes place in the moment of intel¬
lectual conception—whether the ideas spring to life in word
or in act, in picture or expression—has always had for me
something mysterious, something inexplicable, and which
seems to point to the higher future of our souls ; to the con¬
nection with the general spirit-world. The men to whom
Nature has given endowments of another kind, can form no
conception of that which takes place in the mind of a poet;
and it resembles what JFenelon, in one of his remarks on the
inner life of a pious soul, says—namely, that men of the
world regard such a phenomenon as a dream, or a fancy.
There are many such enigmas ; and one of them, perhaps
one of the most wonderful, is the capacity for music and
composition. In an article which I wrote for a periodical
I gave my ideas on this subject. I don’t recollect the par¬
ticular details, but I can repeat in general what I then
asserted, and which succeeding experiences have con¬
firmed.
“ There is something wonderful and mysterious in this
faculty for harmony, and still more in the facility to dictate
harmonies and melodies. This shows itself ofcen in men
who, except in the region of their heavenly gift, manifest little
intellectual ability, and have little education. They them¬
selves have no clear comprehension of their endowments, and
as little of the process which goes on in their spirit when they
endeavour to make palpable the creations which are fer¬
menting in them, or to express in musical sound some
foreign poetical production. Mozart and Haydn, whom I
well knew, were men in whose personal intercourse no
striking force of intelligence, scarcely any kind of intellec¬
tual culture, of higher tendency, or scientific aspiration,
showed itself. A common-place turn of mind, empty jokes,
and, in the first, a frivolous course of life, was all that you
saw in their daily behaviour and converse; and yet what
depths, what worlds of fancy, harmony, melody, and feeling
lay hidden in these dull outsides ! Through what inner
revelations did there come to them that intelligence ? How
must it have seized on them in order to produce such power¬
ful effects, and to enable them, in tones, to express feelings,
thoughts, passions, so that the hearer was compelled to feel
with them, and his mind was affected with the profoundesfc
sympathy ?
“ I knew Schubert, too, and what I have said of these
great composers applied equally to him. He, too, produced
the beautiful and the moving in his compositions almost un¬
consciously. And I may here give an anecdote which I had
from a celebrated singer, Yogel, namely, that a very beauti¬
ful song, which a few weeks before had flowed from the
depths of his feeling, Schubert no longer recognised as
Yogel pointed it out, and he praised it most cordially as
something of another man’s ! So unconsciously, so involun¬
tarily, do these things originate, that we cannot avoid think¬
ing of mesmeric conditions, and of those mysterious capacities
of the chrysalis, in which the wings of the butterfly lie folded
and concealed till the chrysalis bursts open and they unfold.
|| Here, in their narrow conditions, they are aware of those
I j higher powers only in particular moments, when they be-
I1'[ come conscious of them ; and these are the moments pro-
| bably of which Fenelon speaks, and which men of the world
| ridicule because they never knew them.
“ Some days after I had written these remarks, I came
I upon an assertion of Goethe’s, in Eckermann’s Conversations,
| namely that the knowledge of the world is born with the
| true poet. That he himself had written his Gotz von Ber-
! lichingen, 1 without having seen or experienced what he des-
I ! cribed, and that he was afterwards astonished at the truth
| i of these representations.’ He said that he ‘must have
| possessed these revelations through anticipation;' yea, ho
| | protested that ‘had he not carried the world in himself, all
I | his researches and experiences would have been a dead
jc| and vain endeavour.’ Hoes not one rather confound
!jf| these mysterious experiences of the soul, as elucidations of
| this world, with those of a higher one, and that what Goethe
bluntly and drily calls anticipation, we may more properly
| term inspiration ? These intuitions are inspired; they are
I given to the poet without his knowing where or wherefore
| they come; and on their clearness and breadth depend really
| the greater or less force of the poet. Probably it is funda-
| mentally indifferent whether we represent these mysterious
I operations in the soul of the poet by the word anticipation or
| inspiration; but I was pleased to find that this great man
| had had these perceptions, and that he and I were of the
| same opinion regarding them.”—W. Howitt, in the Spiritual
| Magazine.
If! SOME REMINISCENCES OF MESMERIC PHENOMENA.
BY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES, LATE OP THE NINETIETH LIGHT INFANTRY.
I have read with much interest Mr. H. G. Atkinson’s
| letters on Mesmerism in The Spiritualist, of June 29th, and
! wish to make a few remarks on the one relating to Hr.
j Gregory’s work.
Mr. Atkinson has perhaps as much experience in mes-
| merism as any other person living, and, therefore, I am much
| surprised that he has never observed the fact, that sensitives
| are frequently unable to call things by their proper names.
| In some cases we may call it an unwillingness, as when they
| have to allude to dead bodies and certain other subjects.
Mr. Atkinson’s testimony is another proof to me that
! different mesmerisers produce different effects, instances of
which abound in my own experience.
One of my sensitives—my cook—many years ago presented
I! the phenomena of sympathy of taste and sensation, and a
| facetious friend once observed to me, that it was quite right
and proper that a cook should have sympathy of taste with
her master.
This sensitive could describe so graphically the nature of
| anything I tasted, without being able to say what it actually
I was, that everyone in the room—except herself—could tell the
| name of the substance I was eating, and by placing her en
j rapport with other people, she was often equally successful with
! them, but sometimes failed with certain individuals. For
I instance, a lady put something into her mouth, and holding
| the hand of the sensitive, asked what it was she was eating.
| The girl replied, “ I don’t know the name of it, but it is
| made of flour, is sold by the baker, has holes in it, and
| master eats it with his wine and sometimes with cheese.”
Of course every one in the room knew that it was biscuit.
| Again, another visitor put something into his mouth, and the
I girl said, “ It is something very nice; I always flavour
‘ Charlotte Russe ’ with it, and Mrs. —, (my housekeeper) has
I taken some of it to Littlebourne. I cannot tell the name of it.”
| When she awoke I asked her what Mrs. — had taken to
Littlebourne. She immediately replied, “ Only some Yanille,
Sir.” On another occasion, an officer quartered at Hover
| attended one of my seances, and before entering the drawing
i room he went down into the kitchen, where he cut a small
| piece of meat off the joint roasting at the fire. On taking the
I sensitive’s hand she tasted and said, “ You are eating roast
j beef.” Now it happened to be roast mutton, which the girl
herself had placed before the fire.
At other times she could readily give the names of things
| tasted, however little flavour they might possess.
| I always took the precaution of requesting my friends to
July 6, 1877.
THE STIHITHALIST. 5
stand behind the sensitive, and to turn away their heads when |
they tested sympathy of taste, so as to preclude the possibi- j
lity of the substance tasted betraying itself by the scent. i
I have observed in other sensitives an apparent inability to |
guess, or to combine their ideas. Alexis Didier, the famous j \
French clairvoyant, a few days after his first arrival in Eng- j
land, gave a seance at my house in Dover, and during his I
sleep, a young lady, a stranger to me, was introduced by a j
mutual friend. She asked Alexis to tell her Christian name, j
He replied, “ You have two Christian names. I will try and j
give you the first. There are nine letters in it. I see j
H, E, N”—he then stopped, and said he could not make j
out the remaining letters. I need not say that every one I
present knew, that if he were correct as to the first three j
letters, the name must have been Henrietta, and so it was. |
He was then asked to try the second name. He said he j
saw two C’s, an I, and an L, and then complained of being j
tired, and gave it up. The second name was Cecilia. |
I fancy I hear the sceptic exclaim, u What nonsense! If j j
Alexis could make out three letters, why could he not j(
make out the whole word; and if one word, why not |
a whole sentence ? ” All I can say in answer to this j
profound question—which in fact has often been put—is, “I j
don’t know;” but if I could satisfactorily explain any one |
of these apparently contradictory phenomena, I should not I
only consider myself, but probably would be considered by j
others, to be a remarkably clever individual. !
You will observe that in the above experiments with H
Alexis, there was evidently (< mind reading; ” indeed, he j
constantly requested his visitors to tMnk of the word or I
words they had written, and his favourite exclamation was, | j
(Cpensez-y-bien,” and then he would sometimes say, liAh! jj
maintemnt vous pensez bienj' and seizing a pencil, would |j
write the word required. | j
It must be remembered, however, that Alexis frequently j j
read through the cover of books, fresh from the publishers, j i
and with the leaves uncut.
I have played billiards with him at the Dover club, when j
he Was asleep, and after his eyes had been carefully ban- |
daged by sceptical investigators, who, to make assurance i
doubly sure, filled up the interstices formed by the projection |
of the nose with jewellers’ cotton wool. I have also played j|
at ecarte with him when he was in the mesmeric sleep. A |
fresh pack of cards was sent for, and, on its arrival, he |
eagerly tore off the cover, and, without looking at their h
faces, began to throw out the small cards, occasionally dis- I
carding a seven, but instantly rectifying his mistake. He I
then dealt the cards, naming beforehand the turn-up card, j
told me my cards before I had looked at them, and played j
his own with the faces downwards. Surely these feats |
could scarcely be set down to u mind reading.”
The fact is, that certain sensitives have the power of read- j
ing the minds of those en rapport with them, and also give j
numerous proofs of the possession of pure clairvoyant j
powers, where “ mind-reading” cannot possibly account for |
them. |
In the first part of this letter I observed that different j
mesmerisers frequently produce different effects, and I con- |
sider that the peculiar types of phenomena observed in j
different cases are quite as much due to the distinctive idio- |
syncrasy of the operator as to that of the sensitive.
Dr. Law, formerly chaplain to the Factory at St. Peters- j
burgh, wrote to me to say that although he was very sue- |
cessful in the treatment of various forms of disease, such as |
gout, palsy, rheumatism, and epilepsy, he never could pro- j
duce sleep. j
A barrister, in London, wrote to me many years ago that j
all his patients remembered, when awake, what had passed j
during the mesmeric sleep. On the contrary, my patients j
remembered nothing of what had passed, the two states being j
perfectly distinct. j
The same correspondent also stated that in none of his j
cases had he witnessed sympathy of taste or sensation, |
although other operators who followed him with the same !
sensitives produced both sympathy of taste and feeling.
Some practitioners never could produce clairvoyance, j
whereas, my friend Major Buckley had more than a hundred |
cases of reading mottos and verses enclosed in nuts, as j
mentioned in Dr, Gregory’s excellent work on Animal Mag- 1'
netism, and what is very remarkable, the majority of his
sensitives were made clairvoyant in their normal state.
It appears to me to be probable that the will has some¬
thing to do with these effects, and that operators may get
just those phenomena they are most anxious to obtain, their
will-power increasing by constant exercise.
As the above instance of Alexis’s clairvoyance and other
cases occurred many years ago, I may state for your satisfac¬
tion that I have not relied on my memory in the narration
of the facts, but have now by me the notes taken at the -
time of their occurrence.
In conclusion, I trust that others of your contributors
may give some of their experiences of mesmeric phenomena.
Tottenham, 2nd July.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
Passages bearing on Spiritualism occasionally turn up in
unexpected quarters. Here are one or two from a very
popular book, the writer in which probably never heard of
Spiritualism in its modern development, and would have re-
gardedit with nothing but horror. Memorials of a Quiet Life,
under date June 2nd, 1831, we read—“ We have a curious case
in the village just now, of a poor woman named Mary Browne,
who was seized while she was peeling potatoes with what
she calls the Dreads, fancying an evil spirit came over her,
and she has now taken to her bed for three weeks, con¬
stantly tormented by this spirit, which, she says, tells her
she will never be forgiven ; tries to hinder her praying, and
puts all sorts of bad thoughts into her head whenever she
tries to think of God or Heaven. She seems perfectly
sanej but so very miserable, it is quite sad to see her. . . .
It is a very singular case, certainly. She is a woman that
a year ago, in an illness, I found it impossible to make any
impression on. Now she has these tempts come over her
that God will not forgive her. It makes her in a sweat all
over.” Was this depression, impression, or obsession? It
appears to have lasted till her death, two years later: the
writer was evidently much perplexed, observing at the end,
i% Hers was a very extraordinary case, I cannot quite make
it out.”
Another remarkable account is worth extracting; it goes
with several other instances to show that not only human
kind are interested in Spiritualism:—u Devonport, May,
1832.—When the Crocodile sailed for Sydney, one of the
crew had been left in hospital there, with a dog that
was much attached to him. On they sailed, and no
one thought anything more of the man, till one night
the sentinel came to the officer on watch, while
they were off Van Dieman’s Land—‘ Very strange, sir,
but M has just walked up the gangway, and his
dog with him.’ Then came one of the seamen—4 A
curious thing has happened, sir; I saw M just now
standing between these two guns.’ This became the common
talk of the ship, and they found on their arrival at Sydney
that the man had been buried on the evening he was
seen; and what is a curious coincidence, the dog had been
missing at the time for two or three days. This last fact
was mentioned by Colonel Lindsay, in whose hospital the
seaman had died, and who came on board to inquire into the
story.”
The Boston Sunday Herald of June 17th, announces that M. Ley-
marie, formerly editor of the Revue Spirite, is about to visit the United
States.
A Superstition.—A correspondent who signs himself “ A Constant
Reader,” referring to a paragraph in the “ Notes from the North,” of
June 16th, says :—“ Though the custom is not in itself very pleasing,
it is yet interesting, by reason of its antiquity and as having been once
widely spread. I refer to the anecdote about ‘ the wise woman.’ The
miracle related by St. Mark viii. 23 adhered, as was the case with
many others, to the forms prescribed by popular belief. By Persius,
the Latin satirist, spitting is mentioned as a charm to counteract the
evil eye. In a note on that passage Jahn explains the fact of c spitting
at a person being in all countries a gesture implying contempt, whereas,
spitting on a person is—equivalent under certain circumstances to
performing the work of a witch or wizard.’ He says that counter
charms become terms of reproach combined with insult (instancing
this custom) as though the person or thing to whom the gesture, or the
words implying the gesture, are applied, is thereby cursed, as a person
or thing of evil omen. The passage in Persius to which I have referred
is in the Second Satire, I believe ; but not having the Satires by me at
the present, I cannot make sure,—The Pictorial World,
July 6, 187f
6 fUfi S£lftia?tiAl,ISt.
MR. DUGI] ID’S TRANCES AND DIRECT SPIRIT-PAINTING.
BV EGBERT S. WYLD, LL.B., F.E.S.E.
We have very few opportunities in Edinburgh of prose¬
cuting researches in Spiritualism, or of forming any judg¬
ment regarding it. I regret this much, because, though I
have bestowed a good deal of honest, though limited, labour
on the subject both in London, Newcastle, and Edinburgh,
and freely admit its supreme importance, yet I do not, with
all my care in investigating, feel justified in proclaiming
myself a confirmed believer. I require further experience
before I can with confidence do this. I may mention that
I have attended in all only twenty seances. Of these—
Four were failures : nothing was done.
Four appeared to me doubtful and suspicious.
Nine were seemingly genuine; the parties were respect¬
able, some of them highly so; the phenomena surprised and
puzzled me ; indeed, I was impressed with the genuineness
of most of them, at the time, but as I could devise natural
means by which similar results could be produced, I have
removed them from the category of things proven to that of
things requiring strict re-examination.
Three phenomena only have I witnessed which have
hitherto defied all my efforts to account for by any natural
means, or even to suggest how they could possibly be pro¬
duced. One of these last is Duguid’s direct spirit-painting,
which I am about to describe.
I need hardly say that I have attended Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke’s amusing travestie of Spiritualism, and I can say
I have never seen any conjuring tricks more transparent.
They can only amuse those who are willing to pay a shilling
for the sake of a good laugh.
Such being my position with regard to Spiritualism, I
was very glad when my friend Mr. Tod, of St. Mary’s Mount,
Peebles, informed me that he had arranged for an evening
seance in Glasgow with Mr. David Duguid, trance and
painting medium there. We went last Friday (22nd June)
and at eight o’clock we found assembled in Mr. Duguid’s
small parlour Mr. Tod and myself; Mr. Bowman, photo¬
grapher, Glasgow; Mr. Steir, a mercantile gentleman;
and Mr. Nisbet, publisher, a friend and patron of Mr.
Duguid.
As the stance was one that thoroughly surprised me, I
shall, with your permission, endeavour carefully to give the
details; for without minuteness of detail descriptions of
supernatural results are entirely valueless for unbelievers, or
for any other class of persons.
We sat, then, thus in a small room:—The medium sat
with his back to the corner at the window end of the room.
About a yard behind the back of his chair was a press. I
took the liberty to lock this, and put the key in my pocket.
I sat at the medium’s left hand; next me, to the left, was
Mr. Bowman, who held both my hands in his right hand ;
Mr. Steir, to the left, had Mr. Bowman’s left hand in his |
right, and Mr. Tod held Mr. Steir on one side, and both Mr.
Nisbet’s hands in his left hand. We thus formed a con- !
nected semi-circle which stretched completely across the |
room, and of which segment of a circle I was at one end
and Mr. Nisbet at the other; the latter gentleman was fully
four yards from the medium. The door of the room was
behind us, and we saw it carefully locked before we sat i
down; the window-blind was down, but we had excellent
daylight during the first and least surprising part of the
performance.
Mr. Duguid is a decent looking young man, apparently
of about thirty years of age, employed, I understood, as a
cabinet-maker during the day in Messrs. Lockhead and
Wylie’s extensive premises. When all was tolerably still,
the medium, after a few minutes, seemed to fall into a
trance, and his eyes closed. In this state he remained, say
for a minute, as if sound asleep. He then seemed to rouse
up, and turned his head as if looking about him and recog¬
nising an invisible company of friends, for he smiled, and
moved his mouth as if speaking, though he uttered no
sound. At this time he repeatedly rubbed his eyes as if to
improve his vision, though all the time his eyes remained
closely shut. This gazing about and addressing of invisible
beings continued for some minutes, and no saying how long
it might have lasted had not the medium, under the title of
I Jan Steen, been urged pretty strongly several times to try
I to give the strangers a specimen picture. At last this
urgency seemed to make an impression, and after a few
moments, as if spent in premeditating a subject, he seized a
lead pencil and drew a few of the principal lines of a land-
. scape very rapidly on the cardboard, which measured ten
inches by seven. He then took hold of a good broad brush,
dipped it boldly into one colour, then into another, mixed
and blended them on his pallet to the required tone, and
within, I imagine, little more than a quarter of an hour,
produced a good, bold and effective, though rather rough
landscape, consisting of land and water, trees on the one
hand and a castle on a cliff overhanging the sea on the
other
So much for what was evidently the production of the
medium, for we saw this painting executed. But whether it
was the work of his own unassisted genius, or was
prompted or conducted through the agency of his spiritual
friends, we shall leave others, more experienced than we,
tardecide. Thus ended the first and least surprising part of
the performance.
Part second purported to be direct spirit painting. For
this we closed the shutters, lowered the curtain, and lighted
the gas. The medium, still under trance, then arranged
his paint-box, pallet and brushes on the table before
him. The pallet had already a considerable variety of
moist colours arranged on it in the usual way. The
medium then produced a bundle of cards. On inspecting
these, it was evident, from the printing and engraving on
their backs, that they were Mr. Bowman’s photographic
cards, a little bigger than the ordinary size of visiting photo¬
cards. These had been prepared for receiving the paints,
by having had a wash of gum spread over their surface,
which was, when we examined it, perfectly dty. The medium
first tore off a small piece from the corner of one of these
cards, and handed the morsel and the card to me. I put the
fragment into my pocket and marked my initials on the back
of the card. He did the same with another card, and
handed the fragment to Mr. Tod. This was to enable us, by
the best of all tallies, to identify our cards after the pictures
were finished.
The next process was thoroughly to secure the medium.
His wrists were accordingly first tied close to each other
with a silk band, and the knots were sealed by wrapping a
strip of gummed paper round and round several times, till it
was as hard and firm as a piece of wood. His elbows were
then tied close to the back spars of his chair; his ancles
were separately tied in like manner to the fore legs of the
chair, and all the knots were sealed as above described. He
was thus trussed as tight as a pigeon prepared for the
stew-pan, and was all but helpless for any purposes of
voluntary motion. We were entirely satisfied of this.
All being then ready, we took time from a watch,
then quickly shut off the gas, and sat in total darkness.
We sang u Ye Banks and Braes o’ Bonny Doune,” and in
nine minutes we had loud rappings on the table, to ii light
up.” The medium’s hands, I should mention, were fully
three feet back from the table. On striking a light and turn¬
ing on the gas two cards were discovered on the table, with
very prettily finished paintings on their surfaces. One of
these was on Mr. Tod’s card, as proved by the piece he had
in his pocket fitting exactly to the corner; the other card
was entire, i.e., the corner had not been removed as we had
only expected two paintings; the paint on this card, as on
the other, was perfectly moist. But where was my card ?
On inquiring of the entranced medium, he laughingly said:
u Look behind the ^picture over the top of the door.” A
chair was then placed, and one of the party—I forget which
one—removed the picture from the nail which fastened it to
the wall, and lo! behind it was my card, with the corner
torn off, and with my initials on the back. I observed all
this with lynx eyes. On applying my tally it fitted to a
hair. On the front of the card was a really beautiful little
landscape ; land and sea, a rocky crag with a castle a top,
on the right hand; a clump of trees on the left, growing on
a sloping bank; the foreground with warm browns; the
middle distance a smooth sea, reflecting the warm light of
the setting sun, and in the distance a range of hills tinged
with a still more delicate glow. The idea in my picture was
1
July 6, 187?.
Til E SPlllITUALIST.
evidently the same as that painted twenty minutes before by
the medium’s hand, but the execution was infinitely more
careful and beautiful, and to give an additional interest to
the piece, a wrecked vessel with three spars lay stranded in
the little bay beneath the ruined castle. The colouring was
clean, pure, and tender, and a delicacy of touch charac¬
terised the whole piece. How had these pictures been
painted ? Certainly not by a mortal hand, i.e., in the
ordinary way, for the medium was tied hand and foot, the
room was in total darkness, and the three pieces were com¬
pleted within nine minutes, i.e., three minutes for each
painting. How were the colours selected, mixed, and
toned to the strength required in the dark ? How were the
hundred sharp touches which formed the foliage of the trees
put on ? The first idea which occurred was, could the three
paintings have been prepared before the stance and stamped
on our cards in a moment ? No ; and for this reason: every
touch of the brush was visible—the strong touches on the
foreground, the long-drawn strokes on the water, and the
innumerable touches at every variety of angle, to bring out
the proper shades on the uneven surface of the distant hills.
Observe, also, that on the ridge of each hill is visible that
raised thread of paint which a full brush always leaves on
the canvas ; the minute furrows formed by the camel-hairs
are even visible when we examine carefully. These paint¬
ings were, therefore, not stamped, nor could they be produced
by mortal hand in any way known to me. Then, again,
how was my card lifted and placed on the top of the door,
eight or ten feet from the bound medium ? Had Mr. Nisbet
or Mr. Bowman done this part of the trick ? Impossible!
We were sitting all the time with our hands never for a
moment parted. I have thought over this wonderful part of
the seance and I am quite unable to suggest any way in
which the results could be brought about except by the
operation of what is called supernatural agency. I, however,
hereby beg to announce that if any person can suggest a
more rational and more natural explanation, I shall be
exceedingly glad to hear from him, for I wish in every
instance truth to prevail.
Edinburgh, 25tli June, 1877.
A discussion on Spiritualism lias begun in Saunders's News Letter,
Dublin.
New Wobk by Madame Blavatsky.—Isis Unveiled: A Master Key
to the Mysteries of Ancient and Modern Science and Theology, is the
title of a new and expensive work in two volumes, about to be published at
New York. The authoress, Madame H. P. Blavatsky, is corresponding
secretary of the New York Theosophical Society, and has had unusual
opportunities for investigating the subjects which will be treated in the
book, for, according to the prospectus, Madame Blavatsky is “a native of
Asia—her childhood passed among the Calmucks, Tartars, Persians,
and other Eastern peoples; her maturity among Hindus, Cingalese,
Thibetans, and Egyptians—Oriental traditions, languages, literature,
and mythology, have long been her chief study and occupation. The
immense fund of information stored up during years of thoughtful study
and observant travel in all lands, enables her to throw more light upon
the esoteric philosophy of Eastern nations than perhaps any other
writer who has contributed to the literature of this important subject.
The work is divided into two volumes: one devoted to science, one to
religion.”
The Unseen World.—The following is an extract from a sermon
recently delivered by Bishop Simpson:—“The very grave itself is a
passage into the beautiful and glorious. We have laid our friends in the
grave, but they are around us. The little children who sat upon our
knee, into whose eyes we look with love, whose little hands have clasped
our neck, on whose cheek we have imprinted the kiss—we can almost
feel the throbbing of their hearts to-day. They have passed from us,
but where are they ? Just beyond the line of the visible. And the
fathers and mothers who educate us—that directed and comforted us—
where are they but just beyond the line of the visible ? The associates
of our lives, that walk along life’s pathway, those with whom we took
sweet counsel, and who dropped from our side—where are they but just
beyond us ?—not far away, but now it may be very near us. Is there
anything to alarm us in this thought ? No. It seems to me that some¬
times when my head is on the pillow there come whispers as of joy,
which drop into my heart thoughts of the sublime and beautiful and
glorious, as though some angel’s wing passed over my brow, and some
dear one sat by my pillow, and communed with my heart to raise my
affection towards the other and better world. ... The invisible is not
dark; it is glorious. Sometimes the veil becomes so thin it seems to
me that I can almost see the bright forms through it, and my bending
ear can almost hear the voices of those who are singing their melodious
strains. Oh, there is music all around us, though the ear of man hear
it not; there are glorious forms all about us, though in the busy scenes
of life we recognise them not. The veil of the future will soon be lifted,
and the invisible shall appear.”—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
“IN THE VAULT.”
BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.
In the vault at night, and alone
In the vault, so dark and still,
Where the air is damp and chill
And the green mould clings to the stone.
No place in which beauty to lay,
Yet beauty and love lie here;
Beauty that lived but a year,
And love that bemoaned it a day.
Lie quiet, oh ! ice-fettered heart—
Tremble not, bosom of clay;
He comes not to weep or pray,
In his life thou hast lost thy part.
Oh ! dull leaden eyes, remain sealed,
And mouldering limbs, be still;
A balm is found for the ill,
The incurable wound is healed!
How long since he left thee to sleep,
Left thee with sobbing down here :
Since his blame could cause thee fear,
Or his praise excite thee to weep ?
Cans’t thou count the time thou hast lain,
Wrapt in a rest so profound ?
I tremble to know no sound
Could rouse thee to joy or to pain!
Oh ! marvellous shimmer of gold,
Encircling a sculptured head—
Bare pallors by death bespread,
Can such memories e’er grow cold ?
Sweet eyes that shall ne’er again see;
Dimmed violets, sunk and shut;
I marvel he could forget,
E’en though he forgot them for me !
Which of us has he served the worst ?
He laid thee in Death’s embrace,
Then, fickle forgot thy face,
But he rendered my life accurst;
On my conscience he placed a ban, •
He robbed me of peace and rest,
And killed the heart in my breast
By destroying my faith in Man.
Arouse thee, then, for my relief,
Freed spirit, avenge my pain,
Thy loss—which begat my gain,
And haunt him with mem’ries of grief.
No answer! The solemn closed eye,
The cold hands folded in peace,
Tell of all passions’ surcease,
If thou cans’t forgive, why not I ?
I kneel to thee, angel at rest,
I stifle my sobbing prayer,
I breathe a holier air,
Diffused by thy silent behest.
We shall meet him, sister, above,
To stand as we live, alone,
Where none will strive for his own,
But be lost in Infinite love.
Where hearts shall be purged of unfaith,
And resting on what is sure,
Sleep on, thou, sweetly secure,
And I will be patient for death.
From the “Belgravia Annual''
The Beligio-Philosophical Journal says“ In view of the fact that
David danced before the Lord, taking steps not dreamed of in our
philosophy, it is not strange that the boys in the senior class at Michigan
University have fallen into a state of righteous indignation in conse¬
quence of the order of the faculty prohibiting dancing in the University
Hall. They should overwhelm the professors with quotations from
Scripture.”
8
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 6, 1877.
Pmtg.
THE STORY OF THE FAITHFUL SOUL.
The following is one of Miss A. Proctor’s poems:—
The fettered spirits linger
In purgatorial pain,
With penal fires effacing
Their last, faint earthly stain,
Which life’s imperfect sorrow
Had tided to cleanse in vain.
Yet, on each feast of Mary
Their sorrow finds release,
For the great Archangel Michael
Comes down and bids it cease ;
And the name of these brief respites
Is called “ Our Lady’s Peace.”
Yet once—so runs the legend—
When the Archangel came,
And all these holy spirits
Rejoiced at Mary’s name;
One voice alone was wailing,
Still wailing on the same.
And though a great Te Deum
The happy echoes woke,
This one discordant wailing
Through the sweet voices broke;
So when St. Michael questioned,
Thus the poor spirit spoke:
“ I am not cold or thankless,
Although I still complain,
I prize Our Lady’s blessing,
Although it comes in vain
To still my bitter anguish,
Or quench my ceaseless pain.
^ On earth a heart that loved me,
Still lives and mourns me there,
And the shadow of his anguish
Is more than I can bear:
All the torment that I suffer
Is the thought of his despair, .
f The evening of my bridal
Death took my life away;
Not all Love’s passionate pleading
Could gain an hour’s delay;
And he I left has suffered
A whole year since that day.
“If I could only see him,—
If I could only go
And speak one word of comfort
And solace,—then I know
He would endure with patience
And strive against his woe.”
Thus the Archangel answered:
• “ Your time of pain is brief,
And soon the peace of heaven
Will give you full relief;
Yet if his earthly comfort
So much outweighs your grief,
“ Then through a special mercy
I offer you this grace,—
You may seek him who mourns you
And look upon his face,
And speak to him of comfort
For one short minute’s space*
“ But when that time is ended
Return here, and remain
A thousand years in torment,
A thousand years in pain;
Thus dearly must you purchase
The comfort he will gain.”
# * * * *
The lime-tree’s shade at evening
Is spreading broad and wide 5
Beneath their fragrant arches,
Pace slowly, side by side
In low and tender converse,
A bridegroom and his bride.
The night is calm and stilly,
No other sound is there
Except their happy voices;
What is that cold bleak air
That passes through the lime trees,
And stirs the bridegroom’s hair ?
While one low cry of anguish,
Like the last dying wail
Of some dumb, haunted creature,
Is borne upon the gale ;
Why does the bridegroom shudder,
And turn so deathly pale ?
* * * * * *
Near Purgatory’s entrance
The radiant angels wait;
It was the great St. Michael
Who closed that gloomy gate,
When the poor wandering spirit
Came back to meet her fate,
(| ' “ Pass on,” thus spoke the angel;
(I “ Heaven’s joy is deep and vast;
\ | Pass on, pass on, poor spirit,
j i ' For heaven is yours at last;
)j In that one minute’s anguish
(I Your thousand years have passed.”
j| ©orresponueuce.
) j [Great freedom is given, to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
)! to those of this journal audits readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
); copies should be Jceptby the writers.^
HEALING- MEDIUMSHlP.
Sie,—My wife was afflicted for some considerable time with skin
disease over the whole of the body; she had no rest night or day, and
was under several medical men for a very long period. They could not
promise her recovery at all, and said it might take two or three years to
perform a cure. I was at last induced to try the effect of spirit healing
through the mediumship of Mr. Walter Isaac, of 71, Rishton-street,
Everton, Liverpool. She was thoroughly cured in three weeks. You
may publish this to the world. Edwakd G. Irving.
56, Towson-street, Everton, Liverpool, June 27,1877.
SWEDENBORGIANISM V. SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—I see that Mr. C. W. Pearce and I differ as to the meaning of
the term “ raising an issue,” by which I understand propounding or sug¬
gesting a certain question. In this sense Mr. Pearce will scarcely con¬
tend that I, either directly, indirectly, incidentally, or inferentially,
“ raised the issue whether the Scriptures condemn open intercourse with
spirits.” I, on the contrary, simply protested, and continue to protest,
against its having been raised by another person with the object of induc¬
ing us to abandon Spiritualism, inasmuch as, whichever way decided, it
is not calculated to produce any effect in that direction on the mind of
any Spiritualist.
I further perceive, however, that Mr. Pearce belongs to the category of
those Spiritualists “ who are, in consistency, bound to read, and, if they
can, to answer, Mr. Smithson’s pamphlet.’’ In this instance he has
fallen into the error technically termed ignoratio alenchi, i.e., more vul¬
garly, he has got off the scent of the hare started by me, and has started
a fresh one on his own account, which, moreover, I had already declined
to hunt, as being an unprofitable and unreal phantom, and no true hare
at all. A. Joy.
THE IDEAL OF SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Allow me to thank Mr. J. De Maine Browne for his word of
admonition addressed to myself, and to assure him that I bear well
in mind the scriptural maxim, “ the wise .man heareth reproof ” (or to
that effect).
At the same time, I submit to him that it is hardly correct to compare
I j | the ideals set before themselves or others by such men as he has named
i) | with the ideals of the sects or churches which they respectively are or
| | were nominally representative of, and it is with these latter that my
])! comparison is instituted.
i ^ I These men tower high above the rank and file of the bodies with which,
■ yj through circumstances and early training, they happen to have been
i j I connected; they are far more unsectarian than sectarian; and stand
i (| upon a platform of broad and liberal thought where Spiritualists can on
||| many points fervently shake hands with them.
j j Viewed in this light, my assertion that Spiritualism presents ideals
j) | infinitely more lofty than those of any sect or church in Christendom
I y i is hardly so rash or extravagant. A. J. Smart.
j | Cardiff.  
jyi PIANO-PLATING IN THE LIGHT WITHOUT MORTAL CONTACT—SPIRIT IDENTITY—
||| STRONG PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
jyj Sir,—I believe it is your rule to publish no accounts of dark seances
||| unless under strict test conditions, or of seances in the light if the
||| medium is not in full view so as to preclude every possibility of
jyi trickery, illusion, or unconscious deception. It is not always possible
jjj to obtain such favourable conditions when phenomena take place, and
jd when an inquirer or investigator does get them, I consider it his duty
j y i to record his experiences for the benefit and encouragement of other
j >j pioneers whose experience is in a different field.
jy| On Monday, the 18thinst., I left Newcastle-on-Tyne with a friend of
I)! mine, for Glasgow, via Burnley, Lancashire, where we arranged to have
j i a sitting with Dr. Monck (the great impostor, if we are to accept the
j y j evidence of prejudiced people) to try for some phenomena that would
]|| dissipate any shadow of doubt in our minds as to his genuineness. I
]|! met Dr. Monck for the Jirst time in my life that day, and arranged to
]|| have our sitting at a private house, the residence of Dr. Brown, 40,
| ! Standish-street, Burnley. It took place in his dining-room in full
j)j gaslight. I will not give full details, as they are of little interest to
j yj any but myself. The medium remarked that he saw a female spirit and
oj a little girl. I asked the little girl, if related to me, to show a
j, j flower as a symbol of her name. The answer was in the affirmative by
||| a movement of the head, and a white lily was presented as the symbol,
m I then said, “Quite correct,” without adding what her name was. I
i)j then suggested that we should try “ slate writing,so that I could get
| y j her name and day of her death, which I had forgotten. I went out that
| >i moment, about 8.45 p.m., to a place six doors off, and bought four brand
m new slates; I tied them up with string, and then sealed them with my
: y j masonic seal, in the presence of my friend. I next put them on the top
j / j of the table, and held them myself (Dr. Monck not touching them), and
jyj saw the slate the whole time. In about five minutes I distinctly heard
I y j writing and felt the vibration of the action of the pencil, which kept in
Iji motion for about ninety seconds. Bear in mind that I saw, felt, and
July G, 1877. T II32 SPIRITUALIST. 0
heard—the three most important senses being brought into play ; and to
show that my hearing the writing and feeling the vibration were not
imagination, on cutting loose the two slates, I found written, “ Lilly’s
love. Died Feb. 4.” This was the name of my little girl, whom I lost
at the Cape just before I left, and who communicated with us almost
instantly after her dissolution, through my own wife, and promised to
give us tests whilst in England, if possible. I repeated a few verses of
some poetry we received through a sister of mine from this same
" Lilly,” and at this the medium said, “ Yes, it was sent twenty-four
hours after her death—was given through a lady—and that was her
aunt.” This answer was correct to the letter, and at once convinced
me my child had fulfilled her promise, viz., to give me tests whilst in
England. (I had three or four other good tests from her and my other
friends, whilst in London.)
After this, I asked her to materialise, and, in order to obtain a better
view, was told by the medium, who was entranced, to turn down the gas
to make “darkness visible.” We did so, but could see, feel, and hear the
medium, who sat next me. I had hold of both his hands. I then saw
a little white form appear in front of my face, and three or four feet off,
but could not recognise the features. She had no power to articulate,
but took a small bell, at my request, out of my hand, to convince me
I was not beholding a phantom whose image was an emanation from
my own not excited, but calm, mind. The image I saw was no
phantom, but had the attributes and functions of a human being. My
little girl was quite capable of answering me and doing what I asked
her, had she been in the flesh. I asked the figure to touch me with its
hand, which it did, and to ring the bell three times if it were my Lilly.
This was done at once, and after a few minutes I asked her to hand me
the bell again. From a spiritual and philosophical point of view she
could not approach near enough to me, owing to the emanations
eliminated from my body, causing a disintegrating action on the highly
sensitive materialised figure. After this I had some questions
answered by signals given, by the table (about ninety lbs. in weight)
rising up three times for “ yes,” and once for “ no.” Each time it rose
at least ten or twelve inches from the ground in good light, as I had
just before turned up the gas.
Dr. Brown remarked that on the previous night they had had a
sitting, and he actually saw and heard the piano playing without mortal
contact, in his own parlour. I at once suggested that Samuel, one of
Dr. Monck’s old earth friends, and now his familiar spirit, would give
us the same evidence. He at once said he would see if it was light
enough to try, and went to the door, and found it quite light. He
went upstairs, and we followed him into Dr. Brown’s private parlour.
I was asked to take off the medium’s boots, as they might injure the
piano. The medium having been requested to sit on top of it, he sat
down, just as one might sit down on the floor, having both legs parallel
with each each other, the lid of the piano being then down. We all
heard it sound, but to make doubly sure I asked leave to open the
cover, so that I might see, hear, and feel, and all at once I opened it,
and there saw the notes move, and heard the sound. I also remarked
the synchronous action between the movement of the keys and the
vibration of the strings which were also in accordance with the note
struck. If a C or any other note moved I heard the proper sound, bass
or treble. Not to leave one test out, I asked to feel the force moving
the notes, and did so ; so did my friend. I had hold of the medium’s
feet, and my friend both his hands, so that no one could or can say I
did not take every precaution. I then suggested that Samuel might
like a tune and a song, and saw the medium laugh, and say “ Yes.” I
at once loosed the medium, and began singing a favourite and pathetic
song, playing my own piano accompaniment, and, before I had been at
it thirty seconds, the piano began to play and quite put me out of time
and tune, Samuel laughing all the time through his medium.
Now, Mr. Editor, if this is not evidence, then nothing ever will be.
The facts were witnessed by three gentlemen, a lady (Mrs. Brown), and
her daughter. I have the “ direct slate writing ” with the seals intact,
as vouchers that it is no fancy, on my part. We saw, felt, and heard the
'phenomena, and noticed the synchronous action of the notes struck
and sounds heard—all, mind, in good daylight. We afterwards ex¬
amined the piano, to make sure there was nothing automatic like Mr.
Maskelyne’s Psycho or Zoe, both marvellous pieces of mechanism, but
done by mechanical and other aids.
> I am well known as an advanced Spiritualist, but that does not alter
my position in regard to any medium or friend, as I always use my own
judgment and take what precautions I think the exigencies of the case
require, and am quite as capable (I flatter myself) as a Professor This
or Professor That, or Dr. Lankester or any other living man, of knowing
what is genuine, or appears not to be so. I became a Spiritualist
through investigations carried on at my own house, in Cape Town, South
Africa, without any public medium (there being none in Africa), but
through the mediumship of relatives, who I developed myself, and then
obtained phenomena which were inexplicable to all but myself and a
few others, who were determined to find the truth out for ourselves, or
explode the “great delusion.” I have read in many issues of your
paper things quite as astounding, but not under more favourable
conditions for arriving at a definite conclusion; so can say that,
phenomenally at least, Spiritualism, so-called, has been proved, for I
maintain, that one fact proved beyond a doubt proves the thing for
ever, as one fact is as good as a million.
Berks T. Hutchinson (of Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope).
•Nowcastle-on-Tyne, June 28th, 1877.
The old king of Gaboon, in Africa, is dead, at the age of nearly one
hundred. His eldest son, Adaube, at once, on succeeding him, cashiered
the hundred women of his father’s harem, liberating fifty slaves, and
abolishing the sacrifice of human beings at religious rites.
I THE THREE DOCTORS OF MACARTHY’S ISLAND.
PROM “ SAVAGE AFRICA,” BY THE LATE W. WINWOOD READE.
Macarthy’s Island, in the River Gambia, is situated
about a hundred and eighty miles from the sea. It is six
miles long, by two broad. There are two factories there, a
village of liberated Africans, and a garrison of forty men,
one subaltern, and two surgeons.
In the dry season this island presents an agreeable aspect,
and is not unhealthy. But before the rains set in, the two
hot months (May and dune) occur. I was there in January,
and although I had passed days under the line in an open
boat without awning or umbrella, it was there that I suffered
from heat for the first time.
What the heat of the hot months may be I cannot under¬
stand. A surgeon, who had travelled a great deal, told me
that it possessed a close stifling character which the ther-
| mometer could not express, and that it was of a different
| kind from those which he had exprienced in Australia and
! the two Indies.
It must be remembered, too, that they have not the
| u doctor,” as the sea-breeze has been well called. It is this
j sea-breeze which, blowing at noon and eve, preserves the
| vigour and the lives of the residents upon the coast.
At the commencement of the rainy season of 1860, Mr.
Beale, a staff assistant-surgeon, was seized with malarious
fever. The Dover arrived soon afterwards, bringing a Mr.
Campbell to relieve him. The relief came too late. Mr.
Beale was taken on board the Dover, shook hands with the
I captain on deck, went below, and expired almost im-
| mediately.
Mr. Trestrail, his colleague, sat down to write out the case.
| It is still preserved in the medical report-book at the sur-
! geons’ quarters. Towards the end the handwriting changes
| its character, becomes uneven, and sometimes scarcely
j legible. A few hours afterwards Trestrail was a corpse.
| The two surgeons were buried together.
Mr. Campbell wrote out a report of Mr. Trestrail’s case.
I He slept alone in the surgeons’ quarters, in the same bed in
| which the two others had died.
A palisade was being erected around their grave.
Mr. Savage is a mulatto trader on the island. A few
I j days afterwards Campbell came to him and asked him to give
! | him a bed. Savage complied with his request.
“ Don’t you like your quarters ? ” he said.
No,” replied Campbell. 111 have seen Beale. And
| Savage,” he added, “ I shall never see my poor wife and
| children any more.”
1- As the palisade round the grave was finished Dr. Camp-
! bell also died. He was buried outside it. No importance
| was attached to his words, I have seen Beale. It was sup-
| posed at the time that it was merely a dream of which he
| had spoken. The words themselves would have been quite
| forgotten, had it not been for that which afterwards
j occurred.
The commandant’s quarters, a detached building, stands
| about fifteen yards from the surgeons’ quarters, also a de-
I j tached building. A sentry is stationed over each. Captain
j j Wilcox and Dr. Bradshaw were sitting one evening in the
j j piazza of the commandant’s quarters, when they heard a
by shriek from the direction of the other building. A few
| | moments afterwards a soldier livid with fright and without
| j his musket, rushed into the piazza. Captain Wilcox, sup-
| | posing that he was drunk, put him under arrest,
i | The next morning, being examined, he declared that
i I while on guard at the surgeon’s quarters a gentleman dressed
HI in black, had come towards him. He had never seen him
M before. He challenged him, and received no answer. The
| I gentleman continued till he was close to him. He (the
I I sentry) threatened to run him through if he did not answer
I i the challenge. Receiving no answer he thrust, and saw the
| | bayonet pass through the body. The figure gibbered at him,
||| and turned away. It was then that he had shrieked, dropped
I | his musket and run away. Examined by Dr. Bradshaw he
| j described the figure closely; the face, height, and dress
| I tallied precisely with those of Dr. Beale, whom the sentinel
ij| had never seen.
| | Doctors Bradshaw and Hind slept in the building in
ill separate rooms. They heard noises, the cause of which they
10 THE SPIRITUALIST. July 6, 1877.
did not understand, but to which they paid little attention at
the time.
Doctors Macarthy and Fox came up. They heard nothing.
Dr. Macarthy remained there a month, and during that
month he had a severe fever. He went to Bathurst, and re¬
turned afterwards in company with Dr. Duggan. Both of
them were in good health at the time. Neither of them had
heard the ghost story. They slept each in an end room
(there were three en suite), and Dr. Duggan’s servant, a boy
of about sixteen, in the centre one.
Dr. Macarthy (from whom I received these particulars)
now heard peculiar noises in the night. In the piazza or
passage outside there was a table, on which they placed their
tea things after they had done with them. He would hear
the cups and saucers clashed together, and the plates, as it
seemed to him, dashed forcibly to the ground. Several
times he went out in the mornicg, expecting to find every¬
thing broken; but in no instance had the position of the
plates, cups, or saucers been altered in the least. He ascribed
these noises to some mischievous fellow who had climbed
into the piazza without having been observed by the sentry
below.
He also heard noises in the middle room as if heavy pieces
of furniture were being moved about.
And often all night long he would be annoyed with a j
pattering sound upon the floor all round his bed. He j
thought at first that these were bats which had fallen on the j
floor, and which had been unable to rise. But he could
never find them in the morning. Then he supposed that j
they were mice.
One night, instead of going to bed, he kept his candle
alight, and sat on a chair, with a stick across his knee wait- j!
ing for these mice to come out. I
He heard a sound at the farther end of the room. It was j
like that of a man walking cautiously on tiptoe; The i
sound came towards him. He strained his eyes, but he i
could see nothing. Then the footsteps passed before Mm, !
close to Mm ; and he could see nothing.
Doctors are essentially materialists. Dr. Macarthy knew j
that the strangest sights and sounds can spring from a dis- I
ordered stomach or a checked secretion. But when he j
mentioned his hallucination to Dr. Duggan, and when I
Duggan replied that he had been troubled in the same j
manner, they became perplexed. Still it did not occur to I
them that these sounds were supernatural. The mind of i
man is averse to believe that which it cannot grasp. No j
one seriously describes a phenomenon of this kind if he can j
account for it in any natural manner. i
In the course of conversation they happened to speak to j
Savage about it. He replied as if it was a commonplace j !
matter. “ Oh, don’t you know that the house is haunted ? ” | |
and related the affair of the sentry. j
On returning to their quarters Dr. Duggan observed that j j
his boy was looking ill. He asked him what was the matter j j
with him. The boy said he did not know, but perhaps j j
sleeping in the open air had made him sick. . J l
On being asked what he meant, the boy replied, with j j
some reluctance, that he had gone to sleep on the flat roof ! I
of the house, because a tall man in white used to come and j 1
wake him up, so that he could get no rest. This boy I after- j I
wards examined myself. He told me that it came and j j
pulled him by the ear, and said, “ Wake, wakey When he ! j
awoke he could see something white moving off in a manner j j
which he said was not walking, nor running, nor flying, but j !
something different from what he had ever seen. j j
I offered to give him five shillings (which to him would | j
be a large sum) if he would sleep there that night; even j j
offering to keep him company. He looked frightened and j |
refused. ' ' 1 '. . j j
Doctors Macarthy and Duggan after that slept in the j j
same room. And now here comes the part of this story | |
which is so extraordinary—which is, I believe, unparalleled i |
among instances of its kind. . f ! j
These two men, materialists by education, lying broad j j
awake, with a light burning in the room, would both hear j j
those noises, and would call each other’s attention to them jjj
at the time; the heavy bodies moved in the centre room, |||
the rattling of plates in the piazza, and the light tiptoe foot- j j
steps passing between both their beds. ! ‘
This story will interest children and the vulgar, as all
ghost-stories do. To them, of course, I have nothing to say.
But to those who are studying the science of the spirit-
world, I wish to point out the futility of their investigations.
Purposeless in themselves—for they can pave the way to
no system—they are perilous by reason of their action on the
brain. You waste your precious essence of thought, and
will, and electricity, that you may touch etherial rubbish.
A sentry is frightened, a boy’s ear is pulled, plates are
clashed, furniture moves. This is mysterious, but it is far
from being sublime. These glimpses are degrading, dis¬
heartening, and would soon prove deleterious. Men would
not be likely to lead better or more careful lives if your
researches should prove (that which alone they can hope to
prove) that futurity has its comic element.
I INCUBI AND SUCCUB2E.*
j The following is a portion of a lengthy review published in The
j i Examiner :—
\ Few hunters after old books upon old bookstalls can promise them-
| selves the good fortune of M. Isidore Liseux, who, in 1872, picked up,
) i “ chez M. Allen, respectable vieillard etabli dans VEuston Road,” the
j! MS., written under the author’s inspection, of Father Ludovico
(j Maria Sinistrari’s suppressed and hitherto unknown treatise, De Dee-
5 j monialitate et Incubis et Succubis. Of the suppression of the treatise
j I we shall speak anon; meanwhile it seems needful before all things to
(j enlighten the reader respecting the precise nature of | demoniality.”
I It denotes neither more nor less than illicit intercourse with an incubus
] or a succubus, i.e., a male or female imp. The offence, being wholly
(| imaginary, was consistently esteemed by the Church as exceedingly
| j grievous, and the original object of Father Sinistrari’s investigations
j was to determine its relative enormity in comparison with other sexual
I j aberrations. To follow him through his ingenious reasonings on this
II topic would tend more to amusement than edification. We shall, there-
11 fore, leave his arguments and conclusions as we find them, and confine
| our attention to the hypothesis which, after mature investigation, he
I was led to promulgate respecting the nature of the incubi and succubae
themselves. It is not a little startling to find these comprehended by
him under the definition of angels. Father Sinistrari, however, bids us
remark that his theory should not be rashly rejected, inasmuch as it
affords the long-desiderated means of reconciling the otherwise contra¬
dictory decisions of two councils. The Second Council of Nice has
distinctly pronounced angels to be corporeal and material; the Lateran
Council has no less clearly defined them as immaterial and spiritual.
Hence a perplexity and a scandal conveniently obviated by supposing
| the propositions of the councils to have been designed to apply to two
different descriptions of angelic beings. Father Sinistrari next judi¬
ciously observes that the designation of angel, referring to a function
and not to the nature of the individual discharging it, may with propriety
be bestowed upon the devils or fallen angels themselves, much more
upon mere incubi and succubse. He next proceeds to undertake the
rehabilitation of these latter calumniated personages, and to prove
that, though hitherto erroneously classed with fiends, they con¬
stitute a distinct and highly respectable order of creation, bearing
a strong affinity to the elemental spirits of the Rosicrucians. An
ounce of fact being worth a pound of theory, the Father clenches the
matter by an accurate report of two remarkable cases, the first occur¬
ring in the spiritual practice of a friend, the latter in his own. A
nun, long molested by the visits of a certain spirit, received relief
from the prescription of an erudite theologian, who, observing the
patient to be of a phlegmatic constitution, sagaciously inferred that
the demon’s temperament must be cold and watery as well. He
therefore exhibited fumigations and amulets of ginger, musk, benzoin,
and similar calorific substances, which had the effect of so thoroughly
disgusting the spirit with the object of his affections that he entirely re¬
nounced her acquaintance. Instructed, as he supposed, by this occur¬
rence, Father Sinistrari himself, when called on to prescribe for a young
deacon similarly afflicted, administered brandy and scented snuff, which
the patient absorbed, nothing loth. It soon appeared, however, that the
father had made an enormous mistake, for the spirit appreciated the
brandy and snuff as highly as the deacon himself, and actually had the
impudence to assume the semblance of his victim, and thus disguised,
present himself before the ecclesiastical authorities to claim the rations
of the latter. Upon this hint Father Sinistrari changed his tactics,
locked up the stimulants, and dosed his patient “ with herbs of a frigid
nature, such as hepatica, euphorbia, mandragora, and hyoscyamus,”
until the discomfited demon took himself off, or rather, as sceptics may
suggest, the deacon thought proper to get well.
Father Sinistrari was by no means an obscure person in his own day;
he enjoyed general esteem, and filled many important offices. Born in
1622, he was for fifteen years Professor of Theology at Pavia, and sub¬
sequently became Vicar-G-eneral of the diocese of Avignon, and theo¬
logian to the Archbishop of Milan, was attached to the tribunal of the
Inquisition, and compiled a criminal code for the Franciscan Order, to
which he himself belonged. He died in 1701.
Prof. Wm. Denton has been lecturing at Rockland, Mass.
* De lix DemoniaUM, et des Animaux Incubes et Succubes. Par le R. P. L. M. Sinis¬
trari d’Ameno. Ouvrage in^dit, public d’apres le manuscrit original et tradnit du Latiq
par Isidore Liseux. Paris; Liseux.
July 6, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
11
PREVISION.
(To the Editor ofil The Banner of Light.)
The following facts were recently communicated to me by an inti¬
mate friend. As I know they are reliable to the minutest particulars,
I think it might be well to make record of them in the Banner.
T. R. Hazard.
Vaucluse, R.I.
u la February, 1870, I made a voyage from New York to San
Francisco, via Panama. A Mr. D , brother-in-law of General
G——, who then lived in Sau Francisco, was my fellow passenger.
He was, I think, Judge D , whom I found a very gentlemanly and
agreeable man. It so happened that we soon became very intimate,
and were almost constantly together, having adjoining state rooms on
the upper deck. He told me that his mother was evidently a spirit
medium for several years before her death, though perhaps it was not
then so understood. She had frequently told her family that Mr.
G  (as she always called her son-in law) would one of these days
be elected to the highest office in the gift of the people of the United
States ; than which nothing to Mr. D  appeared more improbable
at the time of the decease of his mother, he evidently apprehending
that the then habits of his brother-in-law would ruin him, though he
did not directly so state. Finally, whilst on her death-bed in St.
Louis, in 1852, and when near her end, Mrs. D  called together
the numerous members of her family, and reminded them of what she
had so often told them concerning the election of Mr. G to the
Presidency, remarking that they had not hitherto heeded her pre¬
diction, adding that she now wanted them to make a written
memorandum to the effect that Mr. G was to be elected to the
highest office in the gift of the American people, adding, /1 know it
will be so, for I can see it.’ Mrs. D  died at that time, and sure
enough, eighteeen years afterwards (in 1868), Mr. G was elected
President of the United States. After that event members of the
D family held a consultation as to the propriety oipublishing their
mother’s prediction of 1852. There was a strong inclination in the
minds of most present to do so, but Mr. D said that from the fact
that the prediction had not been promulgated at the proper time, and
in view of the scurrility of some of the public press, particularly the
New York , which would probably find a rich theme in such a
publication, they concluded it would be best not to print the prediction.
I remarked to Mr. D  that I should be likely to meet General
G at no distant day. To this Mr. D   replied, ‘ Speak to him
about it (the prediction); he will, I know, have no ojection to talk
with you about it.’ Mr. D evidently believed in spiritual pheno¬
mena, though he manifested no particular interest in the subject. I
thought at the time that he was forced by circumstances to engage in
mundane affairs that ill comported with the ease of one like him,
whose tastes seemed better adapted to the parlour than the office.’’
Dr. Slade.—A goodly array of influential signatures has been ap¬
pended to the address to Dr. Slade, handsomely illuminated on vellum,
and certifying from personal knowledge the genuineness of his medial
powers. The last signature added was that of Mr. H. G. Bohn, the
well-known publisher. The address will be sent to Dr. Slade at the
Hague in a few days. Mr. and Miss Simmons contemplate returning to
the United States before long, where it is to be hoped that the warmth
of their reception will tend to still further recompense them for the per¬
secution they have suffered at the hands of the ignorant.
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—Dr. William Hitchman lectured at
Meyerbeer Hall, on Sunday evening last. These Sunday lectures are
attractive to both Spiritualists and Materialists, as evinced in the fact
that they are largely attended by intelligent listeners of each school of
thought. The lecturer spoke for upwards of an houi, on the
“ Physiology of Trance,” in its scientific and religious aspects. He
said that from the remarkable results he had obtained from experi¬
mental researches, he was firmly persuaded that electricity and the
nervous force in man were at least equivalents. In a motor cord, it
induced muscular contraction, and in a sensory, its sensation. Through
anatomy, physiology, chemistry, and physics, as by a somatic avenue,
we entered philosophically on those moral and intellectual regions of
the higher life which are now revealed more clearly, via the sciences of
psychology and Spiritualism, than at any former period of modern
history. He gave several examples from the records of science and
religion, in proof of the position he took, that the explanation of
Naturalism by means of electric and magnetic phenomena, was far from
adequate to solve that mystic condition of man in which the soul passed
out of the body and was vouchsafed a view of other spheres or states
of being. When he saw positive transfiguration, for instance, he could
not help thinking that such an evolution of the inward and more
glorious life must be due in some cases to a point of development of
the spiritual body or illumination of the mind for a diviner mission,
than fell to the lot of ordinary mortals. Atomic philosophy, with its
coma, insensibility, and nervous congestion, must yield to celestial
dynamics. He had known unlettered children quote with accuracy and
sublimity, when deeply entranced, many portions of the Baghvat Geeta,
as well as the second book of Herodotus, giving allusions to the
Egyptian creed and the real origin of mummies among the Copts.
They had also recited passages of Aristotle, De minima, and shown the
difference between his philosophy and the science of Newton and the
metaphysics of Descartes. Dr. Hitchman then adduced various proofs,
to shpw that trance—or suspension of mind and senses—was not neces¬
sarily a feigned state, but due, physiologically, to the removal of a
stimulus—from impediment to the transmission of nerve force—even
as vegetables are rendered comatose or put asleep, by the exclusion of
light. The lecture was interspersed with some original poetry.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
THE TREATMENT OF MEDIUMS.
The last fortnightly meeting of the season of the British National
| Association of Spiritualists, was held at 88, Great Russell-street,
London, on Monday evening, June 25th, under the presidency of Mr. D.
! G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.
The subject for debate was the “ Training and Treatment of Mediums,’’
the discussion on Signor Rondi’s paper having been adjourned from the
previous meeting.
Mr. A. S. Louis said that it was impossible to separate the question
of the treatment of the medium from that of the discipline of the circle,
which fact virtually opened up the whole question of the organisation of the
Spiritualist movement. He held that, so far as the study of Spiritualism
was connected with the outside world, everybody felt great dissatisfac¬
tion with the present state of things; People, quite without initiation
or experience, attend a seance now with a sort of mixed feeling; they may
be about to have proof of the existence of immortal spirits, and commune
with them ; or they may be about to become the victims of a gross and
I atrocious fraud. In fact, the Spiritualist movement is, morally, anarchic,
| so far as primary initiation is concerned. This is not to be wondered at.
Spiritualism is a matter of discipline and organisation in fact, while it
has come upon an age undisciplined, inorganic, unruly, while in
former ages, discipline and organisation for common moral purposes was
a comparatively familiar thing. This, he held, was too large a ques¬
tion to be dealt with then and there. The first practical step to its solu¬
tion was to relieve the public or professional medium from his present
dangerous and equivocal position of contracting for paid sittings in hia
own person, directly, with the casual first comer. Mr. Louis held that
i arrangements should be made with such accredited mediums as would
agree to place themselves in relation with a body of trustees and
j guardians of his action; and that all arrangements for experiences with
him should be made by these his guardians. They would receive his
fees, and, what would be more important, instruct the applicants for
| sittings in the principles methods and obligations attending the submis_
sion to initiation. In this way the medium would be protected, and
| persons would begin their practical Spiritualist studies under a sense of
| obligation to responsible persons, and feeling themselves bound to prose-
| cute their inquiries in a different spirit from that which now accompanies
the expectation of something that is to come at once for their fee. Mr.
Louis expressed his conviction that from this first step there would
\ | gradually come about, by way of natural evolution and progress, a disci-
I i pline, a method, and an organisation appropriate to Spiritualist study.
II With reference to the larger question of the organisation or method of
[ I the Spiritualist movement, he had a strong conviction that the idea of
11 scientific inquiry must be subordinated to that of devout or religious
\ i submission. He deprecated the element of argument, controversy,
| analysis, turning on verbal propositions, which was so strongly at
work in the matter. This spirit and practice of controversy, he held,
| was the great obstacle to the realisation of the vast promise of results
| speculative and practical, latent in the Spiritualist movement. The
| great harvest, he submitted, would not be reaped until it was clearly
| understood that Spiritualism is a region of transcendent work and ex¬
perience ; of work and experience, that is to say, which transcend, and
; must for ever defy, verbal analysis and explanations,
i Dr. Carter Blake said that all impartial observers must concede that
! the latter half of the nineteenth century was not a period of accurate
thought, and hence the difficulty in getting the subject of Spiritualism
pursued with the pains that its importance deserved. The Chairman
| said he would like to ask Mr. Louis where the people were to be found
who would submit to a course of discipline and initiation such as he had
suggested. Mrs. Hallock spoke in favour of paid mediums, who she said
were of great utility to the cause, and who had many difficulties to face,
and often had to bear much obloquy. After a few remarks in reply to
I previous speakers from Signor Rondi, Mr. Shorter said that he thought
it unwise to attempt to lay down the lines too precisely into which the
movement was to be guided. The plans and wishes of the intelligencies
| working with us must be taken into account, and the best thing for an
organisation to do, in his opinion; was to watch the natural growth and
evolution of the movement, and to try to bring it into harmonious rela-
II tions with the public mind. Mr. Shorter then proposed a cordial vote
[ | of thanks to Mr. D. G. FitzGerald for his constant and regular attend-
11 ance as chairman of these meetings during a period extending over
(I many months; this was seconded by Dr. Carter Blake, and carried with
[| acclamation. The meetings were then declared closed until further
11 notice.
Life’s Discipline.—It is not the best things—that is, the things
| which we call best—that make men. It is not pleasant things ; it is
| not the calm experiences in life. It is life’s rugged experiences, its
| tempests, its trials. The discipline of life is here good and there evil,
i here trouble and there joy, here roughness and there smoothness, one
) | working with the other; and the alternations of the one and the other
) i which necessitate adaptations, constitute a part of that which makes a
I man, in distinction from an animal, which has no education,—Banner
j] of Light,
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 6, 1877.
EVIL RELATIVE NOT POSITIVE. jjj
The following is a oommunication given through the mediumship of i)|
Mrs. Webster:— | j|i
The human soul has passed through the entire, or very nearly the !(•;
entire, series of inferior creation ere it animates a human body. In the 1)1
course of these progressive stages it serves different purposes in the i)!
economy of the globe, and developes as much of the reasoning faculty
as its actual organisation will admit of, together with propensities, vices, |||
and virtues, engendered or developed by its conditions of existence, its !) j
brain being always proportioned to its elevation in the scale of being and is j
the necessities of self-preservation. |)|
During this period the soul is, as it were, in tutelage. Its clothing, j)j
its food, its just necessities of all kinds, are provided for it, or it is |s|
providentially taught where to seek for, how to obtain, and what to do ijj
with them. It is not allowed to be absolutely automatical. Whatever |)!
education of its moral or reasoning faculties is compatible with its jjj
organs and conditions of existence it receives. These vary in nature j)!
and degree according to the necessities of the case. A certain amount j | j
of responsibility is attached to all the higher grades of animal intelli- HI
gence, and augments, as with men, in proportion to the development of j j
that intelligence. jjl
Thus all animals capable of making a distinction between right and | (
wrong, or of being taught to draw a line between the two, are responsible j; j
in the measure of their consciousness, but only as a child is responsible j§ i
in doing that which it knows is forbidden, without clearly apprehending j| i
the justice of the prohibition, hence deserving of correction but not of j)j
condemnation. Animals who have undergone this antecedent of moral j<!
discipline are intellectually more advanced than others, and better pre- j j i
pared for human civilisation; but as there is always action and re- Jj
action, they lose in the process a few of their savage virtues. Hence, j( i
it is well that all should not be subjected to these factitious influences n
till they are capable of combating them on their own ground. It stands j) f
to reason that they are not rendered responsible for propensities imposed Hi
upon them by their conditions of life and organisation; for instance, a j j i
lion would not be held criminal for devouring without scruple any i) |
number of sheep, or even men, when, according to the best of his Hj
knowledge and convictions, his potent jaws and terrific fangs were given | ) |
him for no other purpose than carnage, whereas despots, from education 17 j
and higher intuitions developed in civilised societies, are, in the highest H j
degree, held guilty when they do not resolutely repress and subdue the j j j
savage instincts of the wild beast which remain to them from their 11 j
ferocity of yore. In
You perceive the bearing of the argument. The soul enters upon si j
human life with certain preconceived tendencies and dispositions, |( I
developed by the different conditions through which it has antecedently !| j
passed, hence independent of its own merit or demerit. These consti- |1 I
tute already a character, and innumerable varieties of dispositions of H i
weak sides and strong points. For these it is not repsonsible, and they H j
serve as extenuating circumstances, at all times taken into consideration || i
by Providence. The responsibility commences with the moral con- ] |
sciousness, which teaches the difference between right and wrong, and n i
enjoins the adherence to the first, and the avoidance or repression of | j
the latter. This is what every living being is bound to observe at all Hi
cost in the measure of his consciousness. In the repression of the pro- j( j
pensities that have become innate, when such propensities are aggressive jl ]
to others or noxious to oneself, and in the cultivation of all that is i j
noble and generous—hence conducive to the elevation and expansion of 111
the soul—consists the difficulty and the merit of the great struggle of i j
life. Souls are made to enter upon human life charged with all their | |
animal baggage previously acquired; it becomes, then, their business to j j j
shake off, by sheer force of muscle and will, all that part of their bag- i
gage which is degrading to a reasoning being, however natural to an Hi
instinctive one, and to react against the gross, ferocious, or vicious i j
biasses impressed upon them by their former habits of life, by the light I I
of the higher consciousness and higher illuminations afforded to them Hi
within the limits of a higher organisation, which higher organisation, j j
moreover, is progressive through every stage of its ascensional phases | j
of being. In the course of its different peregrinations, it developes j i
under each form that it assimilates to itself from the surrounding !) I
medium, such organs as its newly-developed forces require for expansion |j j
and use. These organs, during the successive processes of transforma- ! i
tion which the perpetual mutation of their constituent atoms (occasioned j j
by the necessity of renovation) originates, are progressively enlarged jj
and modified to meet the increasing or divergent requirements which j (j
the enlargement or alteration of the inner spiritual entity demands.
Thus it will be seen that intense application to any particular branch j j j
of science or art not alone developes the faculty so cultivated to an j j
extent that goes beyond all previous anticipation, but likewise induces jji
physical modifications of bone and muscle and internal secretions, in Ijj
conformity with the developed specialities in question. Of this fact all j) I
anatomists bear witness; hence it is the correspondence between the j j j
conformation of the brain and the expression of the countenance, with j (j
the predisposition and acquired or developed faculties of the soul, which jjj
has given rise to phrenology. That the destruction or injury of an jji
organ should paralyse the innate faculty it subserves, is no proof what- jj j
ever that the organ Originates the faculty, but simply that the material jj j
instrument indispensable to it as an intermediary being lacking, or out jjj
of order, the machinery it requires to set it in motion refuses to work, j j j
and reduces the motive power to temporary impotence. jj j
Thus progress is always two-fold. The improving and expansive jj j
motive power within, improves its own implement in the exact ratio that jj i
such improvement is requisite or desirable, always presupposing that j j
activity not sloth, energy not supineness, progress not stagnation, are jj j
the end and aim steadfastly contemplated and unflinchingly pursued, jj j
Such modifications of the individual, physical, and moral, transmit jj j
themselves to the race, and thus push on advancing humanity, no less ill
than the spiritual entities who animate it pro tempore to ever ascending
phases in the scale of being, each endowed with perfected corporeal and
moral attributes, which develope within themselves in a geometrical
ratio, the innate germs of infinite expansion, power, excellence, in¬
herently affected to the divine essence of which they are an infinitesimal
scintilla, and destined to continue thus unceasingly progressing, ex¬
panding, migrating, acquiring, learning; as it were “ quintessencing”
their external forms, their innate faculties, their perceptions, physical
and moral. Hence their incalculable enjoyments and infinite avocations
without stay, or hindrance, or limit, athwart the unnumbered realms of
infinite space throughout eternity.
There is no real evil in the universe any more than a single real devil;
both are mere relative terms, originally expressing certain relative con¬
ditions of collective and individual organisation and development, which
human shortsightedness and ignorance have invested erroneously with
an absolute sense altogether foreign to their nature and avocations in the
economy of creation. There falls, at one swoop, the whole baseless
edifice of puerilities adduced as infallible evidence against the
Pythagorean doctrine of the divine essence of the animus or afflatus
emanating from the very being of the Deity, to infuse into subordinate
matter, the sole principle of life which exists—hence which even
Omnipotence can communicate to its creatures—namely, an infinitesimal
radiation of its own principle and substance.
It is not the nature of the lion that is evil, but what is evil is the
excess or abuse of the predispositions, stamped indelibly on the soul of
the reformed animal, when he prefers to give vent to his inclinations
(however injurious to himself or others they, may be) to trying manfully
to repress and subjugate them in all such of their expressions or excesses
as his internal consciousness and external surroundings condemn as
noxious in their operations or consequences. Did men on the contrary
adopt the opposite course, namely, subjugate their passions and idiosyn-
cracies, till they made slaves of them, instead of suffering themselves
to be made slaves of, they would find in those passions and inherent
faculties the strongest levers of human and spiritual distinction; for
passion is the only stimulant sufficiently powerful to keep them up to
the mark in the face of the difficulties that beset them, and the unutter¬
able weariness which overtakes them in the course of the perpetual
battle of life under human conditions.
The passions and the predispositions with which the soul is imbued
by its animal antecedents, the faculties developed by the ne cessities
imposed upon it, in the material conditions through which it has passed,
produce within it the goads and stimulants, whose alternate impulses
and resistance form the propellers and the resisting medium requisite to
enable the soul to be impelled effectively and navigated successfully on
the waters of life. The so-called principle of evil is a myth ; all things
are good per se if turned to their proper purposes, and restrained within
appointed limits. It is abuse and misuse, superinduced by human
weakness, which alone occasion that reaction which extracts evil out of
good, in contradistinction to the Divine procedure, which turns the so-
called evil back into its original currents, and makes it evolve good out
of that which men have perverted into evil. Thus you perceive that the
antagonistic force supposed to be generated and pitted against the
Creator by His creatures, whether incarned or disincarned, is neither
more nor less than a fiction, having no real existence beyond the domain
of tradition and imagination. Hence it follows that the Divine spark of
the soul produces nothing having a tangible or real existence incompati¬
ble with the Divine essence and attributes. Of course crime is evil, and
productive of incalculable evil to its perpetrator ; but in order for it to
become absolute evil two addenda would be necessary—first, that it
should have originated in an evil principle, inherent in the essence of
the soul, incapable of eradication or amelioration, and, secondly, that
the consequences resulting from its operation should be unmitigated evil
likewise. Now this is never the case, for there is no one instance in
nature wherein crime or sin is not the result of the misdirection or abuse
of a principle or force, which, had it not been suffered to run riot, or
forcibly diverted from the channel wherein Grod destined it to flow, would
have been beneficial instead of pernicious, and an engine of advance¬
ment instead of one of destruction; So likewise is there none which,
however inj urious to the perpetrator, is not by the providence of God
converted into the means of making human and spiritual things progress
at a ratio which could not otherwise be brought about, without a direct
providential intervention, which would interfere with that free will which
distinguishes men from animals, and thus introvert the entire provi¬
dential scheme.
Evil, then, is negative and not positive, a perversion and not a prin¬
ciple, a resultant and not a cause; in other words, it is one of the
infinite forms which the universal law of action and reaction assumes
in worlds where matter and spirit being yet undeveloped and unessayed,
imperfection, not perfection, is the general rule.
The new edition of Professor Gregory’s Animal Magnetism is ex¬
pected from the binders daily.
On Sunday next, July 8th, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver two trance
addresses in the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, All Saints,
Manchester. Afternoon at 3. Subject—“Spiritual Democracy.”
Evening at 6.30. Subject—“ Scepticism ; its cause and cure.” Mon¬
day, July 9, Chamber Lecture.
Mrs. Hardinge Britten arrived at Liverpool on Friday last, and
proposes returning to Boston in the p Victoria,” the same ship that
brought her to England, on Tuesday next, July 10th. It is to be re¬
gretted that the many friends who would gladly have welcomed Mrs.
Britten to London will not have an opportunity of doing so.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
H. G. A.—Your letter is illegible.
C.—The terms are too violent; no good would be done by publication.
July 6, 1877
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.'
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
- aspects of Spiritualism. Ss. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 15s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
takeirby Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev,
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supematural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. Od.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
. volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. od,; cheap edition,
7s. Sd. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. Od.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. od.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 0s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN., An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Od.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 0d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs, Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Od.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. Od.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Od.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 0d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, Ml)., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. Od.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. ‘2s. Od.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 0d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 0s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Od.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .70
The Teacher. „ II. „ . •• . . .76
The Seer. „ Ilf, „ . , . .70
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . , . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse ? . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . , .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . . ,30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .... 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SpiniTUAirisT Newspaper . .2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14
History ot American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . 15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transited into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . io
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (aileged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spimualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .2
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .12
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . .18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . ' . . , . 10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE-
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevier. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. GunneU. Is. 6d.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam,
Is.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase, is. Od.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 6d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R„ T.
Hallock. Soiled, Is.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholic
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut. Is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow,
od.
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. H. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper, Is.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair. Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all oiher mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267,High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. JOHN Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Mediumship * its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post, free
for 6d.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 6. 1877.
The great question of the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless? The Kmes states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may he set
down as preventable. Upwards of 600,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PftlNGE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours,
INQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature’s own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau hue would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIO in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION. use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c,, only it is much
cheaper and letter in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping ihe system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish yon would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.’’
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost alwaj s recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
M ineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
« M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Ayent for Pans—PH ARM ACIE DE BEBAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.
BY “M.A. (OXON.).”
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION I.
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten's History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and Modern Spiritualism. Howitt’s
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, Judge
Edmond’s Tracts.
SECTION II.
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana qf Spiritualism,
(reviewed), Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke's Researches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpable cf
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism.
SECTION IV.
Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modem
Spiritualism (reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debateable Land, S. C. Hall’s Use of Spiritualism.
SECTION V.
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensnous perception, as exemplifled in simple dear-
sight or psychometrically in Denton’s Soul of Things, and
Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
Arcana de la vie Future.
SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Sealing further with certain occult powers of
the human spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
THE TRANS-CORPOREaL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Death: and under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can be ascertained,]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books on the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not be substan¬
tially changed.
The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches i/n the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found*in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ”• Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?’’ When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition,
Will be out in a few days, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or
five copies post free for 21s. Subscribers will be supplied with
early copies, in the rotation in which their orders and remit¬
tances are sent. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
• CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain,
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—^Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force *
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions'—Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII :—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CflABTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EYENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Langham Hall, Great Portland-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may be obtained, and subscriptions,
donations. &c., received by Mbs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevekidge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
