Eb&isisrbd as a Nbw»apbb.
S>ff) 0^ ^^YdSOI<O0 Idai< $dis}>[c5ii
l^l^e r0TOjc^ foit| Sgintual^m in (&xm\ §rilam.
THE SPIRITUALIST Is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : it, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi.Via Della Maltonaia. ROME:
Signor Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly and Co. NEW YORK:
51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light ” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. SAN FRAN¬
CISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 357.—(Vol.xiv.-No.26.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JUNE 27, 1879.
Contents.
Obituary  .. ,, ,, 301
Two Seances with Dr. Slade 302
Inspiration. By Catherine Woodforde  303
Hyotozozie River, June 1st.—Chislehurst, June 20th .. 303
A Spontaneous Apparition .. .. .. .. .. 303
Spirit-Messages in Languages unknown to the Medium .. 304
The Funeral Service of Wm. Lloyd Garrison. By B.
Louisa Thompson Nosworthy .. .. .. .. 305
Apparitions at about the Time of Death. By Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P  .. 306
Alteration of the Size of The Spiritualist .. .. ' .. 306
A Well-tested Manifestation .. .. .. .. .. 306
Spirit Poetry ..   306
The First Severe Surgical Operation Performed in Eng¬
land under Mesmeric Influence. By Capt. John James 307
A Seance with Mr. Foster    '308
“Love’s Triumph,” By Edith Saville .. .. ..' 309
Materialization Manifestations .. .. . . . . 310
Correspondence—Spiritualism in Marylebone, 311; “ Who
wrote Shakespeare’s Plays ? ” 311; Zulu Warfare, 311;
Spiritualism and the Newspapers  311
Answers to Correspondents .. .. .. .. ..312
Paragraphs—Spiritualism in Marylebone, 303 ; The Pas¬
sage of Matter , through Matter; 305; Swedenborg
Society, 310 s Property in Thought .. .. .. 311
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours
of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Sat¬
urday, when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and
6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR JUNE.
Monday, IWi.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Last of the Season. Paper, “ Review of the
Session.” By the Rev. W. Stainton Moses
M.A.
Friday, 20th.—Library Committee ;.t 6 p.m.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, AkebMan Road, Bbixxon.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated
Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries throughout
the Glohe; it also has an influential body of readers on the
Continent of Europe.
' The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading
and more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in
the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among
those who have published their names in connection with their
communication!, in its columns are Mr. C. F.Varley, C.E., F.R.S.;
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor ofthe “Quarterly Jonrnal
of Science ” (who admits the reality of the phenomena, hut has,
up to the present time, expressed no decided opinion as to their
cause); Mr. AJfred R. Wallace, President of the Biological Sec¬
tion of the_British Association for the Advancement of Science
(1876); Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the
Right Hon. the Countess of Caithness ; His Imperial Highness
Nicholas of Russia (Duke of Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S. ; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples); Baron
Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald Massey; Le Comte
de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly American
Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr, George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Parkas, P.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, Presi¬
dent of the British National Association of Spiritualists; the
Rev. J. Tyerman (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.);
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George
Wyld;.Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
kof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order
of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay
(Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C, Luxmoore ; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B,
(India); Mrs. Honeywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr.
Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George Stock, B.A. (Oxon);
Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian
Reimers; Mr. William White (author of the “Life of Sweden¬
borg ’’); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D. ; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S-A.;
Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ; Mr. H. D.
Jehcken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. C. Con¬
stant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; M'-. William Oxley;
Miss Ki linghury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers ;
Mr. J. N. T. Mathese; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States).; Mr.
W. Lindsay Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other
ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom,
10s. lOd.; in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free:
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig : 2,_ Lindenstrasse. Florence : Signor G. Parisi,
Via Della Maltonia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Be ding Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege : 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russel-street. Shanghai : Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-strect and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal
Office. Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington; No. 1010, Seventh-street,
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books
on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
THE ALPHA;
Ob, the Fibst Pbinciple oj? the Human Mind ;
A Revelation, but no Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and
Steel Portrait of the Au'hor, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages,
price 3s. 6d.
“We can call to mind .few books fit to be its fellows.”—
Athenaeum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and logic
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given to
the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with engraving of the Author, 470 pages,
price 3s. 6d.,
THE RELIGION OF LIFE,
As EXEMPLirkEn by Jesus Christ.
A series of Lectures by the Author of " Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vq.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Leb, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris,
Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Au¬
thor of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism and Therapeutics,”
awarded by the Milan Society for the Promotion of Science,
Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury,
London.
BIRKBEOK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEBEST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the Custody of Securities of Customers
and the Collection of Bills of hxchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 till 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
PRIVATE EDUCATION IN GERMANY.—
One or two pupils can find a comfoitable home and
careful instruction in English, foreign languages, mathe¬
matics, &c., under the care of a Private Tutor inWiesbaden.
Address—Mr. G. Wiese, A.K.C., 2, Kapellen Str., Wies¬
baden, Germany.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
   1 ■ — • 1 4*
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
Pbbsident—Mb. Sbbjeant Cok.
This Society was established ih February, 1875, for the pro*
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigatioh of the forces, organic and intelligent,
that move and direct the material mechanism of man. Com¬
munications as to alleged phenomena are invited by the
Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings with¬
out subscribing to or recognising any particular theory or
belief.
All pa- ticulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). Prom the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubnbb & Co. London.
Cloth, small 8vo., price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use in thtf
divine economy for all varieties of men and women; and
that there is not any one, however perverse or insignificant,
who is not created for some function in universal humanity.
As to the question of everlasting punishment, Mr. White
maintains an original position. If asked whether he believe*
in the everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers. Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he answers.
No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish which exist
as to the future life arise from the constant assumption that
the everlasting punishment of sin is. identical with the ever*
lasting existence of sinners. Sin or transgression has been,
is, and ever will be eternally punished; torment and misery
are everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing; and pre¬
cisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or
later, cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for- the impossibility of
everlasting sinners.
E. W. Alien, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMBItlS for 1879, containing predictions
of events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a
large hieroglyphic. Post free. 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lanca¬
shire quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the
British armaments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by
which any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth
gilt, 3s.
London : J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly
Journal devoted to the investigation ofthe unexplained
phenomena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandbe Axsakoe,
and contributed 10 by several German and foreign men of
science. Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutzb.
London : The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
DR, NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and
their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made.
Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &e.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home iu a convenient part of the
city, by an English brother. The apartments can only ac-
commoda e four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3
per week each; or, for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two
occupy one room. Address, S.T., 9are of M. A, Mallett, 3,
Rue de la Cossooerie, Paris.
IX
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 27, 1879
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Pbesident.
Alex. Calder. Esq.. 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington,
S.W.
Vice-Pbesidents.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1,- Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Pitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 62, Warwiok-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-
buildings, E.O.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13,
Alexandra-road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park,
W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Learoroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road,
Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 6, Portman-stfeet, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 69, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-G'erald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road, New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square,
■vy.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford,
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lampart-hall, Northampton.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Yillas, 71, Greenwood road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree terrace, Uttoxeter road.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish road, Blundel Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, Lanarth House, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.
Pearson, 0., 16, Harpur street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgill, W.C., 3, Blandford square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Mornington road. Regent’s park.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum Villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolf crescent, Maida vale, W.
Wedgwo:d, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Ann street, Cavendish
square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1,
Hereford square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, MissH., 1, The Elms, St. John’sroad, Brixton, S.W,
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Honobaby Tbbasubeb.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford square, South Kensington,
S.W.
Auditobs.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G, H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobold, Esq.
Secbetaby.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbury,
Loudon, W.C.
HoNOBABY OB COBEESPONDING MeMBEBS.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtehberg, St,
Petersburgh, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjii,
Capoussou, Constantinople.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at
Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach,
Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gueldenstubb, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. AJexauder Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
The Baron von Dirchinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerle, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-
Mer.
Boboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, • San Francisco, U.8.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude, Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of .Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr, Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg
University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.I care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W.H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, South Melbourne,
Victoria, Austra ia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Ren Neuve, des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy,
1, Paris,
Epes Sergent, Esq., Box 2,986, Boston, U.S.A.
II, T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn. New
York, U.S.A
M. Leon Favre, Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa,
J, Murray Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Phila¬
delphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de
1’Europe, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 286, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck,
Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue de Palais, 137, Schaerbeck, Lex-
Bruxelles. .
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cavuga Co., New York,
U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel del’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-
square, London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul,* Trieste,
Austria. .
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
IsaacB. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eporjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaje,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr, J. H., Stratil, Modling,j 18, Bruhler-strasse, near
Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Berks T. Huchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavillion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H, J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies,
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 46 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fitz,
121, Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Fraces,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M.
Anton Prochaszka, Josefstaadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse,
23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquiries into Spiritualism. Hon.
Secretary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.—Mr. A. J. Smart, 22,
Moira-place—Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola Cerventes, 34, 28, Madrid.
President—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Maxicana. Presi¬
dent—Senor Refugio T Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo,
Mexico.
Sooiedad Espirita di Bogota, Columbia, South America.
President—Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading room and library, with a secre¬
tary. in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries.
Seances can be attended by recommendation from a member.
For terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Price 6s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of Truth
—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—V. Love
and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII. The Burial of
Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda —IX. The
Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope for
the Sorrowing—XIII.- Compensation—XIV. The Eagle of
Freedon—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII.
“ Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX
“ I still Live”—XX. Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”
—XXIII. Words o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle
or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The
Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price
5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C., Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
1\/rEUIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
iv I VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infer-
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spir it
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; Post free for l^d.; or six copies post free for
6d.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
_ N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during altera¬
tions. in the above premises is 13, Millman-street, W.C.
(comer of New Ormond-street).
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE, LONDON,
W.C.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON
"|l/rDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honore,
Paris.  
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
» engagements to deliver public or private addresses in
London or the provinces. Address, 92, Caroline St., Notting¬
ham.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and
Healing Medium. Any form of Mediumship deve-
1 oped. Ladies and children healed by Mesmerism. Terms
according to circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from
1 p.m. to 6 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester. Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Frank¬
lin, gives seances at No. 4, Grenvilie-street, Brunswick-
square, from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every
evening from 8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engage¬
ments can be made by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Handwriting, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients, and may be consulted daily
from 2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington, Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTS and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and age re¬
quired. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism, Specialities.
At home from 12 till 6 p.m. Patients treated at their homes
when desired. 99, Park-street, Grosvenor-square,London, W.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition-enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPITITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It
shows (we think successfully) that every form of medium-
ship, now so familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical
records of identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, ^consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrow¬
ing parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the oldest
* journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world ! Issued weekly, at No 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac
B. Rich, business manager; Luther Oolby, editor ; aided by
a large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical, and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c. &c. Terms of subscription, in ad¬
vance, 16s. per anmim; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
FOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodgings on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St, James’'street; and Mr. Boughton, St.George’s-rd.
A LADY, lately returned from abroad, desires
a RE-ENGAGEMENT as RESIDENT GOVERNESS
Address—N. D., 12, North-parade, Horsham,
t
No. 357.—VouifiE Fourteen; Number Twe^ty-pix,
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 27th, 1879.
OBITUARY.
ME. BENJAMIN COLEMAN.
The news of the departure from this life of Mr. Benjamin i
Coleman will be received everywhere with profound regret
by Spiritualists, for he was one of the most efficient and
faithful of the earlier workers in the movement. His health j;
had been impaired for some years past, but about a fortnight j
ago his illness took a more serious turn, and after several
days of severe suffering he was finally released from the |
trials of this world, in the seventieth year of his age. His
remains were interred last Monday at Norwood Cemetery. |
His step-daughter, Miss Deekens, who had tended him with |
unremitting care during the last years of his life on earth, j
and a few family friends and relatives, followed him to the
grave, and among the few spectators of the funeral were Mr.
W. M. Wilkinson, Mr. William White, Mr. William Tebb,
Mr. Watts, Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld, and Mr. Harrison.
It was a bright summer’s morning, and all the earth looked
beautiful, as the small knot of friends stood around the grave |
of the body of their departed friend while the officiating
clergyman performed the last sad rites, in accordance with |
the ritual of the Church of England.
Benjamin Coleman was born in Charlestown, South
Carolina, and while yet a child was brought to England, j
The following brief summary of his work in connection with j
Spiritualism has been sent us by Mr. Tebb :— - j
“ One of the earliest and most active workers in the cause * j
of Spiritualism is Mr. Benjamin Coleman ; and, perhaps, no j
one has done so much by his personal influence to extend the
knowledge of its facts. More than twenty years ago, when j
he held a good position in the commercial world, and when
it required more than common courage, he openly avowed
and defended his convictions. Among many instances, we |
may refer to his letter in The Morning Advertiser, October,
1855, in which he corrected the misrepresentations of the late |'
Sir David Brewster. In 1861 he visited the United 'States to j -
personally investigate spiritual phenomena, the fruit of his |
experience being the remarkable volume entited Spiritualism j <
in America. In 1866 he [instituted a series of soirees and '
conferences for inquiry into Spiritualism; at these meetings j \
Mrs. Emma Hardinge was first introduced to the English j[
public ; and to Mr. Coleman’s liberality we are indebted for ] <
the publication of her eloquent orations on these occasions. 13
A second series of soirees was also promoted by Mr. Coleman, j i
in the course of which Mr. Alfred Bussel Wallace read his ji
celebrated Essay on Miracles, in reply to David Hume and ]
more recent objectors. Mr. Coleman has likewise presided j
over many public meetings of Spiritualists, and his addresses |
from the chair have always been received with marked atten- j
tion and respect. He has been a constant contributor to jj
various spiritual journals, and has published uninteresting j
account of the Rise and Progress of Spiritualism in England. |<
He has taken the lead in promoting testimonials of re- if,
spect to some of the most distinguished representatives of jj
our cause both in England and America; and has been ever j
ready with his time, money, and influence to aid those among j
us who have needed help.” * j
Mr. William White, author of The Life of Swedenborg, j
writes:—
‘‘Dear Mr. Harrison,—It is well that you ask me for I
some early reminiscenses of Mr. Coleman, for when friends
pass away the complexity of emotion is apt to expend itself j
in general eulogy, and it is much more to the purpose to have f
one’s mind drawn to a single point. It is now nearly a quarter
of a century ago, somewhere in 1855 or ’56, since I made
Mr. Coleman’s acquaintance. 1 He was then in the fervour of
his first conviction of the reality and presence and power of
the spiritual world, and I felt at the time, that if only he re¬
mained faithful, the new cause had gained a convert who
H would have to be reckoned with. Had I seen deeper I should
, j have perceived that steadfastness was his profound charac-
> j teristic, and that having attained a mature conviction, he was
, I immoveable. To describe oneself as a Spiritualist in these
I j days requires no extraordinary stretch of Courage, but when
H Mr. Home first appeared in London, intercourse with spirits
> j Was generally regarded as a combination of hoax and roguery,
|| and it was a service of daring and eminent value to aver
* | openly, * I have seen and know whereof I affirm that we can
II Communicate and converse with spirits.’ This Mr. Coleman
11 did, and did systematically, and with a courage and composure
11 and authority that compelled respect where it did not produce
(j conviction. Those who have only known Mr. Coleman in
i i later years/ when age and infirmity had abated his natural
' j; vigour, can have little conception of what he was in the prime
11 of middle life. His presence conferred on his speech a force
jj beyond the mere words; and to listen to his conversation, or
4 to hear him addressing a public meeting, was to be persuaded
j j' by something more than logic or rhetoric. The accession of
fl such a convert to Spiritualism was therefore no slight gain,
1 j and especially as he speedily showed himself to be as energetic
ij as a propagandist as he was undaunted as a confessor,
j j Thoroughly well informed, and versed in the modes and habits
' j of the world, he made no pretence to special excellence in
j j science or literature ; but as an Englishman accustomed to
ij business affairs, he claimed that in matters of ordinary
j j observation and evidence he was as well trained and trust¬
worthy as any professor or divine. And to Spiritualism he
brought the energies of a man of business—industry, system,
j shrewdness, and beyond all, the capacity for taking endless
j pains. I, who am perhaps too willing to let things take care
j of themselves, with over-confidence in the policy of neglect,
j used to distress him with my indifference to antagonists,
j He accounted for all his enemies, and allowed none to
i retire unharassed. Every point was made the most of, every
. concession utilized. Had Spiritualism lent itself to organi¬
sation he would have made a'first-rate administrator. As it
j was, he did all that was possible to give the movement form
and purpose, and to every worker in the ranks he was ever
ready to extend sympathy and succour and protection. The
j experience of years deepened his faith in Spiritualism, and
j he passed within the veil in the full assurance that he was
about to rejoin openly those who had gone before, who were
j still nigh, though invisible, and to revive all the uses and
j satisfactions of humanity in a serener air and a better country.
“ Wm. White.
“ Kemplay-road, Hampstead, 24th June.”
Dr. George Wyld writes :—
“ Many Spiritualists will learn with much regret that Mr.
Benjamin Coleman departed this life on the evening of
! the 19 th in&t., after a prolonged illness, which terminated in
;j some days of acuta suffering.
“ To Mr. Coleman is due the merit of having been one of
| the very first, as he certainly was the most active, in this
j country in advocating the claims of Spiritualism to scientific
j investigation, and this he did with an entire devotion, and re-
j gardless of all selfish considerations.
“ He was a man of wonderful determination and persistency
J of character, and in resolving to carry out his views he was
j very little careful as to how he picked his steps; the conse-
! quence of which was that it was his misfortune to tread on an
unusual number of corns in his journey through life, the
l penalty of which was the loss of some impatient friends.
302
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 27, 1879.
“ This in part may explain how one with so fine a presence j (j
and so large and active a brain failed to occupy a higher j||
position among men; and certainly I never knew one who m
more exemplified the saying that ‘ the battle is not always |)j.
with the strong.’ But although Mr. Coleman’s strength lay j(j
more in energy than in a finely-balanced tact, yet I am sure |)!
of this, that he was an upright, unselfish, and tender-hearted m
man, and one who never wearied in working for the good of !)j
others or for what he believed to be a good cause.” Hi
TWO SEANCES WITH Dfi. SLADE. [ [
The Avoca Mail (Australia) printed the following official |(|
report of two seances with Ur. Slade, shortly before that j:)j
medium left for San Francisco :— f - |)i
“On Sunday morning, the 29th ultimo, about 11 o’clock j/j
a.m., I called at Lester’s Hotel, accompanied with two friends, | (j
for the purpose of interviewing and having a sitting with \(\
Ur. Slade, a name now widely known over the whole globe ; 1 (i
condemned by a few as a trickster, lauded by German and jj j
Russian scientists as a perfect gentleman, free of trickery, ijj
and the one who has proved the existence of a fourth dimen- l ) j
sion in space, or one who has a fourth dimensional being at jm
his command. We soon introduced ourselves to the doctor, i)j;:
whom we found to be alone. I was pleasantly surprised with j (j
his agreeable, gentlemanly appearance, his frank, open look, j:)i
and the courtesy of his manner. In height he is about five hi
feet ten inches, well built, regular features, bright, intelligent j ) j
eyes, intellectual forehead, rather fair than dark, and wears a | vj
moustache. He was well dressed, wore no profusion of jewellery, i) |
but what he did wear were first-class, all being presents made to ! |!
him whilst in Russia. We took our seats at’ a Pembroke table, m
the doctor seating himself at the east side, my two friends hi
north and west, and I at the south side. He at once said, jh
‘ Rest your hands lightly on the top of the table and let them ||j
touch allround.’ We did- so. lie then said, ‘Are there |(|
any spirits present?’ Three loud thumps, which perfectly hi
shook every fibre of the table, indicated ‘ Yes.’ ‘Will they fij
write?’ Again three raps were given. Ho then took a hj
clean slate and laid on the side having the maker’s name | (j
stamped on it a bit of slate pencil, about an eighth of an hi
inch in length, which he now placed under the leaf of the j(j
table, pressing the slate against its under surface, part of the hi
slate and the whole of his hand being exposed to view; we ||j
then distinctly heard the sound of writing, and shortly after hj
three taps, which the doctor said was an indication that the j (j
Writing was finished. When the slate was removed we found hi
'the words ‘Many are present and will try.’ Mr. B., of the j(j
Telegraph office, asked, ‘ Am I a medium ? ’ The slate was i) j
placed as before under the table, and once more the sound of \\\
writing, again three taps, and on examining the slate we \)\
found the following sentence, ‘Yes, you possess many i(j
valuable spirit-gifts if developed.’ Two slates were then j/j
cleaned, a bit of pencil was put on one, and covered over by jsj
another; this time the closed slates were put on Mr. B.’s hi
shoulder, close to his ear, in full view of all present; the j \ j
doctor’s left hand was held by myself, whilst with his j/i
right hand he held the slates in the position I have j\j
indicated. We could all distinctly hear the sound of writing
— i’s being ticked, t’s being stroked. At last, on the signal \)\
being given, the slates were laid on the table and the cover hi
taken off; the message ran as follows:—‘ Uear friends, much j(j
joy awaits you all in the true investigation of this much-mis- hj
understood subject. We come to earth to give joy to those j||
Without hope and comfort, and to those that mourn. I am, hi
Henry Hall.’ Just at this time one of my friends had his i|i.
knees grasped by a hand, the other had his leg grasped, j(j
whilst I had my chair almost pulled away from under j)i
me. The question was then put, ‘ What Hall is K j
it ? ’ The answer came again on the slate—‘ I was head j j l
dresser at   drapery store.’ Mr. B. said, ‘ Why, I knew j (j
him very well—he died about three years ago. I wonder if jjj
he has any message.’ Ur. Slade put a bit of pencil on the j (j
slate, and requested Mr. B. to hold one side of it with him. i j j
The answer was written on the top side, ‘ I want to see my i (i
dear wife. H. Hall,’ the pencil-point resting at the finish of jjj
the last letter ‘ 1,’ Th^n Mr. B. asked, ‘ Are you happy w j j|
Holding the slate with Ur. Slade as before, the answer w^e
given, ‘ A good time is coming. I am happy. H. H.’ My
friend putting his hand into his coat pocket, produced a book-
slate, and asked whether it could be possible for a message
to come on it without contact with the doctor. He was told
to try, and placing a bit of slate pencil between the leaves,
he held it in his own hand. Immediately the sound of
writing came, and.when opened we.found these words, ‘Go
on and do all you can to understand this subject. H. H.’ I
tried, but got nothing. Ur. Slade then proposed to de-mate-
rialize a book, and he thereupon picked up from the hotel
table Lester’s Ballarat Visitors’ Guide Book, which he placed
on a slate and partly hid the slate under the leaf of the table ;
his hand and part of the slate, however, were visible. In
less than half a minute three taps were given, and the book
was gone. After examining the table all round, even Ur.
Slade’s sleeve, the slate was placed for the return of the book.
In five seconds we heard the three taps, and on withdrawing
the slate, the book was found restored to its place. Knocks
were now heard all over the room, and the doctor rose from
his seat and took the handbell and placed it under the table ;
it rose up and rang several times. This finished the morning’s
sitting. \Ve sat back from the table a short distance, chat¬
ting about the phenomena, when a light suddenly passed near
the doctor. I called his attention to it ; he said that these
lights were no uncommon occurrence. The drawer of the
table we had been sitting at was then thrust out by some
unseen force and shot back again. This same phenomenon
took place several times in succession. Just before leaving
he proposed trying to raise the table. We again formed the
magnetic circle round, and resting our hands upon it, the
table gradually rose up seven or eight inches clear of the
floor. We then broke the circle of hands, and re-formed it
about a foot from the surface of the table. An attractive force
seemed to be established between our hands and the table,
and in two or three seconds it rose with a bound, and pressed
our hands. After this experiment we took our leave, perfectly
satisfied in our own minds that we had witnessed genuine
phenomena, and not the tricks of a conjuror.
“ The evening sitting was quite a grand affair ; there wero
altogether, including Ur. Slade, twelve of us. The sitting
was to have begun at seven o’clock, but having been detained
by giving a sitting to the press of Ballarat, he did not arrive
at the place of meeting until ten minutes to eight o’clock.
The introductions over, we all took our seats at a very heavy
loo table (which required all the force I could exert to move
in any way). One of our party requested us to repeat the
Lord’s Prayer, which we all did ; whilst we were repeating
the words, ‘ Our Father,’ the table rose up about eighteen
inches from the floor and remained suspended until the
prayer was finished; at the word ‘ Amen ’ the feet touched
the floor. We then sang ‘There is a happy land.’ The
table rose about the same height as before, and beat time with
its motions upwards and downwards, only touching the floor at
the end of every bar. At the close of the hymn, knocks took place
on the table, on slates, chairs, and various other places. Some
of the sitters were anxious to see the slate-writing, but there
were no slate pencils in the room ; the lady of the house
very kindly went into an adjoining room and brought one in.
Ur. Slade, willing to please, bit a short length off and put
on the surface of one of the slates, but on putting it under
the table the crumb of pencil fell off. The doctor said,
f They will perhaps pick it up, I have often seen them do
that.’ In a few seconds we heard the pencil tap on the
slate; we were shown that it was there. A message was then
written on it by Ur. Uavis, a name none of us knew; Ur.
Slade mentioned that it was one of his own guides. Raps
were now heard all over the room. All at once, putting his
Rand to his forehead, he said, f I feel an influence near me.
I might go into a trance. I sometimes do, but I don’t know
what I say.’ He at once fell into the trance-sleep described
by Ur. Gregory and others as ‘ extasis.’ He delivered a
short powerful address—the language was sublime and full of
beautiful meaning; the address was followed by a short
prayer, which I am sure every one will remember who heard it.
For my own part I never heard one so deeply earnest, or
more impressive. He at once got right again, and said, ‘ Did
I speak.’ Having had a considerable amount of experience
with mesmerism, I have no hesitation in pronouncing the
sleep a genuine trance, He. then took up a book and caused
June 27, 1879.
303
THE SPIRITUALIST.
it to disappear, as . described at the morning sitting. Your j \
correspondent proposed that the book, which was a thin one, j/
should be removed from between two slates, the frames of the js
slates completely shutting it in. The doctor said he had not j;
tried the experiment, and was doubtful of its being success- K
ful. ‘Why?’ I replied—‘ it is not more difficult than tying |)
knots on an endless cord; it is but a repetition in another |\
form of Zollner’s experiment.’ The experiment was tried ; |)
the slates, partly hid, were placed under the leaf of the table; js
in a few seconds the signal was given, the slates were opened, f)~
and the book was gone. During the whole of this time one js
of the doctor’s hands was always held. It was then proposed \)
to restore the book between the slates, before or in sight of is
all the company. The slates, after being examined, were j)
placed together and laid or held in front of the lady sitting j s
next to me ; in a few seconds the taps were given, the slates j)
were opened, and the book was restored. It was then pro- is
posed to sit a little in the dark; all being agreeable, the gas j)
was turned off. We sang a hymn, the table rose and beat js
time; the pencils which I had before me for taking notes j)
began to try and do their work without any external aid ; js
some sheets of paper were whisked away from under my j)
fingers and thrown across the table; the slates were floating j)
about under the table, touching the knees of the sitters; j(
hands grasped and patted various of the sitters. I was j)
favoured with small hands touching and fondling me, others \)
were treated to a slap or a shove ; one lady had her hand- j)
kerchief taken from her, tied into a diamond knot, and \l
thrown across the table. During the whole of this time a j>
strong breeze seemed to be blowing all round the table, and j(
heavy currents, like ordinary magnetism, flowed through j)
various members of our company; some had their hands, j (
others their arms, some again had their heads affected. I jj
“ I have now given you a short account of my two sittings j(
with Dr. Slade, ‘ the mysterious/ who has at his command ‘a j>
fourth dimensional being,’ so at least say the German j(
scientists. For my own part, I leave your readers to solve j)
the mystery for themselves. I am certain the phenomena I jy
have described are genuine, but I cannot present a solution j)
which would be free of objection to all. It is only fair, how- i
ever, to state that every one who formed our party, whose j)
names are known to you, are intimate friends, and Dr. Slade j\
was the only stranger in the room. He therefore had no iji
confederates or mechanical appliances at his command.” j1
INSPIRATION. .]!
BY CATHERINE WOODFORDE. . j
Dear angel, of my. soul— j
Thou light of life, and tender love supreme! . , ' !
Youchsafe more golden words within mine ear, i
To lap me still in such delicious dream; |
Por in thy voice and in thy words I hear i
The heavenly harmonies of thy rich soul j
Pull-rounded and complete, through lapse and roll j
Of countless ages’ moulding power. Thy thought, j
God-breath’d, is luminous, and lights my mind j
With answ’ring glow, as in the waves are caught !
The sun’s effulgent beams, and light doth bind I
In one resplendent whole both sea and sky. , {
Thus, soul-transfigur’d, ’neath thy mind I lie, |
Prom sparkling thought-waves giving back thy light j j
Till thou and I, in watching angels’ sight, - j)
Might seem a radiant One,—I lost in thee, i j
- Thy glory utterly absorbing me, . . it
Thou angel of my soul! _ ' j
•^eoo^eoooooco^ooococx • • - )
Spiritualism in Marylebone.—Mr. Dale writes:—“Can you favour j;
me. with space to inform your readers that the display of flowers and other )
objects by the Marylebone Society will re-open on Friday, and be continued (
on Saturday and Sunday, from two until ten p.m.; and that in addition— \
through the kindness of Mrs. Hallock—-an “Afghan,” made by Miss j)
Pancher, the American clairvoyante, will be exhibited. Some novel devices j)
in connection with flowers will be on view, including two rustic stands five (
feet high, holding thirteen candles, suitable for a conservatory, drawing- (
room, or landing, and designed by a member. Tea, coffee, and light j
refreshments will be provided, also vocal and. instrumental music at )
intervals. Sacred songs and music on Sunday. The floral display will, as )
before, take place at the Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec-street, Jdary-Je- i{
. hope i'o&d^ ]jQp4Q0} cloge to B^ker-atrpet Railway Statical.
HYOTOZOZIE RIVER. JUNE 1st.—CHISLEHURST, JUNE 20th.
Oh, pity, Lord, her grief, whose anguished soul
Is stunned by this, the hardest blow of all; ‘
Whose eyes refuse to look upon that sun
Which shines no moie cn him—cut off at noon !
He never drew her tears by unkind word.
By thoughtless act, or reckless deed of sin;
Soft as a girl to her, yet rashly brave—
So brave his life has been the sacrifice !
Oh! long-desirM, fondly hoped-for son,
How did she love thee! How, with widowed heart,
Cling to thine arm to shield her later years—
Now by one sudden stroke left desolate.
Oh ! pierce, good Lord, the gloom around her cast,
Soften her grief, and cause warm tears to flow.
To ease her brain of this dull, voiceless load.
And let Thine hand support her in her woe! L. P. S.
A SPONTANEOUS APPARITION.
An American correspondent has sent us the following narrative from
The New York Sun, of November 12th, 1877:—
‘' Bordentown, N. J., Nov. 11.—What distinguishes Bordentown ghost
stories from other ghost stories is that the authors are easily found and that
they stick to them stoutly. So often has the apparition been seen that the
incredulous here no longer try to laugh down the stories as inventions or
creations of excited brains, but account for them by the assertion that some
person is playing the ghost for a purpose. You can hardly be introduced to
a citizen of Bordentown without hearing a new version. Some of these
rove to be false, but most of them come direct from persons alleged to
ave seen the ghost. It has uniformly been shrouded in black. Some¬
times the face is seen, and it is invaribly very pale; but oftener the head is
hooded and the face veiled. The hands are crossed or held up appealingly.
It generally looks upward. Those who have seen it lately say that- it glides
along noiselessly. To some it first appeared as a tall woman, wearing gum
shoes. Once it took a different form. Mrs. Joseph Yandergrift says that
on the night of Sunday, Nov. 4, she was walking in Railroad-avenue with her
husband and their little boy, on their Way from church. When they reached
Third-street they passed within a few feet of a black object about the size
of a calf. It looked like a heap of something with a black cloth thrown
over it. They did not notice it in the darkness until their little boy ran
against it. He put out his hand and touched it, and it felt soft, like feathers
or down. It stood or lay on the edge of a bank. Mr. Yandergrift said,
‘ What are you doing here P ’ It made no reply, and did not move. Mrs.
Yandergrift says that they then started away, her husband intending to
return as soon as he could get a stick or something to defend himself with;
but before they got more than twenty feet away it glided silently down the
bank. There was no rustling of clothes nor grating of gravel as it moved,
and it did not increase in stature.
_ | It is averred by many in proof that it is a ghost, that it has several
times appeared suddenly in the roadway and stopped horses. The first
warning that the driver had of the ghostly presence was the stoppage of his
horses in great fright at something before them. Then the ghost glided
away. These stories, however, could not be traced to their authors. Katie
Cunningham says that when she saw the ghost near Mrs. Duffy’s house it
was dressed in black and not in white, as reported. After her cousin, Annie
Cunningham, accosted it in the street, and had come into Mrs. Duffy’s
house, where she was, the ghost walked past slowly, and then went about a
dozen paces beyond the house to a low fence. Here it stood, she thinks,
for half an hour looking over the fence into a vacant lot, apparently with a
fixed gaze. The figure was motionless. Mrs. Duffy, Annie, and sne stood
looking at it all the while from a window. Finally it moved away. Annie
thought it was tall, but Katie thinks it was not very tall. Last evening it
appeared again in Elizabeth-street, its favourite haunt, where it was seen by
two young ladies. It appeared to them to be carrying a whip.
“ A reporter for The Sun called to-day on Mr. Lawrence Deworth, who, it
was rumoured, had disguised himself as a ghost because he fancied that in that
way some good fortune would come to him. He is a Spiritualist. He told
his visitor that he was employed in Trenton, in a vice and tool factory,
where he worked hard. He got home late every night, and had not been
out nights at all. He is of opinion that the apparition may be a true ghost.
He had never himself seen a palpable spirit, but he had seen things done
that indicated the presence of spirits. He showed his visitor a picture of
the Davenport brothers being wafted through the air by spirit-power, and
said that when such things as that were done every day, as was proved by
in contestible evidence, it was quite possible that a spirit might take form
and appear in the streets of Bordentown.
“ Yesterday State Constable Johnny Warner made an investigation of
the stories. After calling on about twenty persons and hearing their
accounts of personal observation of the ghost, he said that he had never
before in all nis life heard accounts of a ghost so well authenticated. He
does not believe that it is a ghost, but thinks there must be something in
it when so many reputable people are willing to risk public ridicule by
boldly asserting that they have seen the apparition. The excitement in the
city is widespread. Vigilance committees of the best young men in the
place have searched for the ghost with guns, pistols, and clubs, but
without success,”
Mr. W. Eglinton asks us to make known his desire to visit India in
November if enough engagements are offered him there to warrant the
takipg of that step. ' •
304
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 27, 1879.
SPIRIT-MESSAGES IN LANGUAGES UNKNOWN TO THE h
MEDIUM. ' |;
Professor J. R. Buchanan, of 1, Livingstone-place, Hew |1
York, in the course of/ his recent book on The Psycho- l<
Physiological Sciences, (Colby and Rich: Boston, U.S.A.) j<
says:— . I <
“ There are many mediums with whom the spirits will |j
write upon a slate or paper, giving their own names and j <
various facts which are proofs of their identity. A few days ]!
since a lady physician was sitting with a medium, when Dr. |
R. T. Trail, the famous hydropathic physician, announced his j
presence by writing on a slate, giving his name, age, and j (
occupation as editor. Hone of those present knew of his jj
recent death, or knew his full name and editorial position, k
The lady to whom Dr. Trail made this communication was i j
engaged in medical practice, and he wrote that he was K
attracted to her by the similarity of her views in medical |)
practice. She is accustomed to place the slate at night on a H
table not far from her bed, and to find in the morning j)
messages of friendship and advice from her spiritual friends, j (
“ It often happens that the messages written by an invisible i)
power mention facts unknown to all, and sometimes positively j (
disbelieved until investigation proves the spirits to be right. \)
The first communication that I received in this manner—rtwo j (
pages written rapidly with a lead pencil—I know was not j)
written by any visible hand: it came from an invisible j j
intelligence, it referred to matters of which the medium (Mrs. I)
Hollis) knew nothing, and used words of a language un- | (
known to her. It was so characteristic that if it had been j)
written by Mrs. Hollis’s hand I should have known that it
proceeded from an intelligence not her own. j)
“ The medium and all concerned may know only English, j (
but if they can evoke a foreign spirit, they will have writing j #
in a foreign language; French, German, Italian, Greek, j \
Russian, and Oriental languages have often been written with ||
English mediums. ' n
“ Mr. Henry Slade, who has been made so famous by his i (
persecution in England, was visitedby Mr. J. H. Gledstanes, j
who says, in the London Spiritualist, that he took a new h
double-slate with him, which was placed on top of the table, j j
while Slade’s hands were in view, and ‘on my double-slate h
there came, at Dr. Slade’s, writing in Greek, Arabic, and |J
English/ j<
“Similar instances occur with Slade wherever he goes. |,
Hugo Liebing, writing from Berlin, Hov. 17th, 1877, says of j <
Slade: ‘ Every one gets slates full of writing, and not only in j
English, but in various languages on one slate ; also many j \
communications in German, written in old characters used j /
about four hundred years ago, but in the language of to-day. i (
This kind of writing, in stiff Gothic letters (like printed), j)
is very difficult to the ordinary chirographer under the most j \
favourable circumstances. . . . We have obtained at one j)
sitting a slate covered with music, the first ever produced, j (
The lines were as straight and regular as if drawn with a j}
ruler.’ Capital demonstrations these, at Berlin, in the very j (
centre of frozen materialism. ■ , ; l ! ‘i i '? j{
“ Two years ago Slade was in Hew York, struggling [ j j
painfully with the unjust and ungenerous scepticism of that ||
city of Mammon. A clergyman (Mr. H.) called upon him— \\
not in the spirit of love commanded by Jesus, for mere j)
mediums are no portion of that universal humanity which j (
such clergymen request us to love. To worry a medium, or i (
to assail his reputation, or to condemn him in wholesale j)
scoffing at his class, is just, as easy to some fashionable clergy- ] (
men as it is to Dr. Carpenter, but is an equally heartless and : j)
un-Christian proceeding—in both cases—no more Christian- i (
like than the old persecution of unoffending Jews. Slade j)
was in distress, his wife was dying, his nervous power was j (
almost exhausted ; he failed to keep some appointments, and ; | j
when he did meet Mr. H. his phenomena were not as good as | (
usual. Without waiting to understand the subject of which j j
he knew very little, Mr. H. hurried to express himself in the j (
Herald upon a matter in which hundreds in Hew York who j j
do not go before the public could have instructed him. He i (
gave the public his crude notion or suspicion that Slade was an j j
impostor. Would he have dared to assail any other citizen of j (
Hew York upon so flimsy a pretext, or to assail any other i j
science without investigation ? Would not an apology from :
this gentleman be in order, since Mr. Slade has amply
demonstrated his power ?
“It was immediately after this unwarrantable attack, while
Slade was in a painful state of discouragement, that an honest
scientist, who had never occupied a pulpit and did not feel
competent to give an opinion without patient examination,
determined to satisfy himself by a thorough investigation.
“ This gentleman—whom I shall call for his manly justice,
Aristides—was not a Spiritualist, but had that thorough intel¬
lectual honesty which is the moral basis of Spiritualism.
“He went to see Dr. Slade in October, 1875, taking with him
his own double-slate, which he placed upon the table near him¬
self, in broad daylight, having taken the additional and super¬
fluous precaution of writing upon it to secure a mark for its
identification, if by any accident or trick another slate should
be substituted.
“ Sitting at the table with his own hand and Slade’s hand on
top of the slates, the writing soon began on the inside of the
slates, and was distinctly heard, Slade meanwhile complaining
bitterly of the unkind treatment he had received. When the
signal of completion was heard, the slates were opened, and
the interior was covered on both upper and lower sides with
writing in English, French, Greek, and German.
“ One page was occupied by the writing in English from
Slade’s wife, which was as follows, arranged in lines as I here
give them:
‘ Dear Friend
Chide no man woman or child
for destiny marked them at their
birth and cast them helpless on this
' Earth—none can escape their destiny
so all of your persecutors or defamers
will go through their furnace fires of
experience and will be better for it—
let your own souls be free to unfold
truth for yourselves, and be guided only
by the lignt within
I am truly
a friend to all
A. W. Slade ’
“ How profitable it would be to Mr. H. if he could act upon
the kind and charitable sentiment written by that spirit-hand,
and confess himself instructed by the angels, as he certainly
would be if he properly sought them. That slate is still pre¬
served by Aristides, who is a gentleman not inferior to Mr.
H. in intelligence and social standing, and I can introduce
him to Aristides whenever he wishes to investigate fairly.
“ On the other inside page of the slates (I do not know which
was uppermost) were the three messages. The first, in French,
was signed by a name which looks like De Merut, or some¬
thing similar, and was as follows : ‘ Le invisible force a sounds
Vunivers. Chaque age a ses plaisirs chaque etat a ses charmes’
“ Then came six lines of Greek poetry, well and freely
written, as if by a practised hand, which are pronounced all
right by a Greek linguist, and which are the first six lines of
Anacreon’s Ode to Cupid.
“ This was followed by one line of German in German hand¬
writing at the bottom of the page. The spirits when interro¬
gated about the Greek ode said they had only room to write
six lines, and gave way to let a German friend write a line,
but that they would give the whole ode if they had an oppor¬
tunity..
“Soonafter, Aristides gave them an opportunity with another
double-slate, on which they completed the task. This double¬
slate, with the thirty lines of Anacreon’s ode on it, is still
preserved, like the other, by Aristides, and I have just
examined them.
“ For the second writing the slate was held not on but under
the table, and the wife of Aristides being present, had her
hand on the slate. The idea of keeping the slate under the
table annoyed her, and she heartily wished in her mind, with¬
out saying anything, that the slate could be on the top of the
table. In a moment the slate began to move under spirit in¬
fluence, and struggled up to the top of the table, on which the
writing was finished.
“ The spirits added to the Greek writing the English state¬
ment, ‘ If you had not moved it would be better. Always re¬
main still and we can do well.’
f‘To see these pairs of slates, with four messages in different
languages on one, Anacreon’s ode . and the English remarks
on the other, ought to satisfy any rational human being that
June 27, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
305
we communicate with, intelligent spirits in such experiments;
and that we can obtain, not the babble of fools, as supercilious
talkers continually say, but the communications of the learned
and wise, if we rightly seek them, and are ourselves upon the
higher plane of intelligence and virtue, which we must occupy
if we are to reach a high spiritual companionship. If Mr. H,
would obtain elevated communications he must put himself
upon a higher plane of thought than he occupied in his visits
to Slade.”   
THE FUNERAL SERVICE OE WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
BY E. LOUISA THOMPSON NOSWOBTHY.
The funeral of the great liberator and friend of truth,
"William Lloyd Garrison, took place on the 28th of May. The
services were held in the church of the “ First Religious
Society ” in Roxbury. The attendance was so large that the
building was filled. Speeches were made by the Rev. Samuel
May, the Rev. Samuel Johnson, and others, and the follow¬
ing tribute from John Greanleaf Whittier to his departed
friend was read :—
“ The storm and peril Overpast,
The hounding hatred shamed and still;
Go,! soul of freedom, take at last
The place which thou alone canst fill
Go up and on! Thy day well done,
Thy morning promise well fulfilled.
Arise to triumphs yet unwon,
To holier tasks that God has willed.
Go ! leave behind thee all that mars
. The work below of man for man;
With the white legions of the stars,
Do service such as angels can.
Wherever wrong shall right deny,
Or suffering spirits urge their plea.
Be thine a voice to smite the lie,
A hand to set the captive free !
The speech excellence of the solemn occasion was by
Mr. Wendell Philips, the American orator. Writing of this
speech, the Boston Evening Transcript says: ‘‘Wendell
Philips’ address at Garrison’s funeral yesterday has been pro¬
nounced the finest effort of his whole life, rising to the demands
of the hour, and even beyond the expectations of an audience
that hung upon his words as Athenians are said to have hung
upon the sentences of Demosthenes.” In this speech the orator
pictured the career of Mr. Garrison from a stripling not
twenty-three years old, confronting the great national evil of
slavery, and sounding through the land the bugle-note of its
only remedy, “ Immediate and unconditional emancipation.”
The orator pictured the brave youth in prison at twenty-three
for the utterance of his principles, released only to go on boldly
and fearlessly, clothed in the armour of righteousness,, and
upheld only by the weapons of truth and justice, in the con¬
stant enunciation of his convictions until their justice had
been acknowledged and the standard of freedom, irrespective
of colour or race, had been raised in his country. Speaking
of the singular influence of peace, and the atmosphere of love
that Mr. Garrison seemed to shed around him, as an exhalation,
the orator observed: “ His was the happiest life that I ever
witnessed. No need for pity. No man gathered into his
bosom a fuller sheaf of blessing, delight, and joy. In his
seventy years there were not arrows enough in the whole
quiver of the Church or State to wound him. As Guizot said
from the heights of the tribune, ‘Gentlemen, you cannot get
high enough to reach the level of my content,’ so Garrison,
from the serene level of his daily life, from the faith that never
faltered, was able to say to American hate, ‘ You cannot reach
up to the level that can affect my home-mood, my daily exis¬
tence.’ I have seen him intimately for a score of years, when
raining on his head was the hate of the community; when, in
every possible form of expression, malignity let him know
that it wished him all sorts of harm. I never saw him un-
happy ; I never saw the hour that gloom poisoned his exis¬
tence; Ineversawthe moment that serene, overflowing, abound¬
ing faith in the rectitude of his motive, in the certainty of his
success, did not lift him above all possibility of being reached
by any of the clamour about him. I stand here to affirm what
I think every friend of his intimate life will say—this is the
happiest life that God has granted in our day to any Ameri¬
can standing in the foremost rank of men of influence and
effort God: held over him in full sight unclouded,
the sunlight of Ilis countenance. Serene, brave, all-accom-
(i plished., marvellous man! I sit down to contemplate the
)j make-up of his qualities. I remember that he was mortal,
(| and yet, where shall we find one among those waging earnest,
)\ unceasing effort to quell sin, to reform error, to enlighten
'( darkness, to bind up broken hearts, his equal ? Farewell, for
) | a very little while, noblest of Christian men ! Leader, brave,
(| tireless, unselfish ! The ear that heard thee, it blessed thee;
) | the eye that saw thee, gave witness to thee. More truly than
(I it could be uttered since the great patriarch wrote it, the
j| blessing of him that was ready to perish was thine eternal
(I great reward.”
11 I have received a batch of American papers literally filled
(j with lengthy narratives of Mr. Garrison’s great life of self-
) | sacrifice and trial for truth and freedom. The Boston Journal,
11 closing a long article, says :—
/| “Vale ! —The volume of his history is completed, and he
j I has gone to his rest. A whole race mourns for the man who
) | proved himself their friend through a long life-time, and the
I whole civilized world joins with them in a profound tribute
) j of respect to a Christian man who walked in the footsteps of
(| the Master, as few men have walked since the great sacrifice
)| for mankind on Calvary. Bequiescat in pace!"
|i For myself, I can remember Mr. Garrison since I can re-
) ] member anything at all. He was often a guest at my father’s
{| house, and I can truly say I have known but one such man
) | in my life; I endorse fully every word uttered by Wendell
II Philips and all others, for to know William Lloyd Garrison was
11 to feel the strange mystic power which went forth as a felt
H influence from a very rare specimen of God-like humanity.
(| One so “ poor in spirit,” yet so rich in all that ennobles ; one
) | so meek, and yet so worthy of highest honour I never knew,
I \ but in knowing him. Who is there amongst men who has
)| not at some time been guilty of egotistical vaunting? Yery
(i few, I fear; but one of these was William Lloyd Garrison, his
) j country has learned to be proud of him, and with his sorrow-
(j ing children, and the five millions of emancipated Africans
II whose cause he pleaded, is now mourning the loss of his
(| earthly presence; but only those who knew him nearly were
j| able to judge of him truly, and to feel how great a man he
(! really was.
j j For my part I have small sympathy with the mourners,
(| picturing as my mind does the glorious second birth of such
j | a spirit. That noble spirit seems accessible now without the
jj mediumship of pen, ink, or paper, or the transmission of
yl thoughts by post. True he may no longer be spoken with
(| in the flesh, and his last written lines have reached me, but
) j a higher and still more direct intercourse is opened on one
s I condition. That one condition is sympathy—sympathy with
V j his uncompromising unswerving truth, and child-like single-
\ j ness of nature. He has said that he will work on in the
/ i better life for such ends as may be made plain to him ; and
\ | the changes that Spiritualism is destined to effect when it
) i becomes understood and used intelligently will be one—for
yi let it not be forgotten William Lloyd Garrison was a be-
) ] liever in spirit-communion, and testified to his belief on all
j occasions when opportunity occurred.
) j Blundell Sands, near Liverpool, June 21st, 1879.
)i The Passage op Matteb through Mattek.—On Sunday evening,
) | April 20th, one of the events at a stance given at the residence of Mr. Evans,
(| No. 415, Mcllwain-street, Philadelphia, is worth recording. There have
(| been from time to time instances of solid substances or matter going through
\ | matter, but as these events took place in the dark, the mqdm operandi
) | could not be seen. On the Sunday evening in question the transition took
|f place in a room sufficiently lighted for the sitters to see each other. The
it | instrument used was a Centennial harp. This is a box made of hard wood,
| about twelve inches wide and sixteen inches long, and about two inches
from top to bottom. One end is cut off, at an angle, to conform to the
short and long steel-wire strings, of which there are two octaves. The
;i instrument was played upon at this stance by a spirit who had a knowledge
j of music, and who expertly fingered the strings. It was taken from the
If place where it hung on the wall in one apartment of the cabinet, and after
I having been played on for some time it was, “in a moment, in the twinkling
of an eye,” passed into the cabinet, and it appeared at the wire grating over
I the door thereof. This grating is placed there to afford ventilation for the
| medium, who, upon this occasion was Harry. N. Evans: The instrument
I remained there several minutes, during which tim,e it was played upon. The
! next moment the harp disappeared from view and passed through the parti-
: | tion, consisting of a double thickness of black muslin, which divides the
| cabinet into two parts. This transition was repeated. Though this occurred
! in the light, yet the members of the circle are as much as ever in the dark
| about it. There is no doubt of the fact that the harp passed through the
muslin partition.—Mind, and Matter (Philadelphia).
306
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 27, 1879.
APPARITIONS AT ABOUT THE TIME OP DEATH. j
BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, J.P. j
Towards the end of April last I h 'ard from a lady whom I
have known all her life that a littl i girl, who had by her j
means been placed at the Girls’ Ho ne in Charlotte-street,
had lately seen the apparition of her mother at a time when
she had had no intelligence of her death. My friend had in¬
terested herself for the mother (who was dying all the winter j ^
of a cancer), and she occasionally had the little girl of nine
or ten years of age to tea with her servants. Coming in this j |
way on the 26th April, the little girl immediately began to j
tell the servants of her having seen the apparition of her j J
mother on the day of her death at the end of March. She j <
told Mrs. Cox, the lady’s maid, from whom I had it, that j]
not having seen any one for a long time either from home or j <
my friend’s house, she had been very unhappy, thinking her- i \
self forgotten, and being unwell she had been sent up to bed j(
by the matron before the others. As she was undressing she 11
heard herself called, “ Rosy ! ” “ Rosy ! ” She looked up and j <
saw quite plainly her mother, all in white, coming in at the |.|
door. She knew her by her dark eyes and pale face—the large ]1
dark eyes being, in fact, amost striking feature of her mother’s | (
face. The name of the girl was Rose Henrietta, but she was |.|
always known as Henrietta at the home, and had never been j(
called Rose, as there was another girl of that name there, jj
When, she saw the apparition she screamed with terror. Her | <
cries brought some of the elder girls up to her help, who told ; |
her not to be frightened, as it was only a sign that something i
would happen. Two days afterwards the matron sent for j (
her as she was going to bed, and told her that her mother had i (
died two days before, that is, on the 28th March, the morning | j
of the day that Rose had seen the apparition. She was much | /
affected when she told Mrs. Cox the story, so that the latter I [
only asked her whether she was fretting about her^mother. Rose i (
said, “ No ; she knew she was happy now.” With a view of | j
learning whether it might not have been a dream, Mrs. Cox i (
asked whether she ever dreamt about her. Rose said, “ No ; |)
she had not dreamt about her at all; she was not dreaming j (
when she saw her mother, she had not got into bed.” j j
I found on inquiry that the matron had immediately been i (
informed of the occurrence by the elder girls, but she dis- j)
couraged attention to the subject, and treated it as a dream. I\
The mother died about eight in the morning—about ten !/
hours before she appeared to her daughter. j.j
The following account was given me by a lady long known I)
to me, in answer to an inquiry whether she had ever seen or
had personal knowledge of an apparition :— j j
“ In the year 1861 my parents were living in Soho-square, j|
and I and my brother Arthur, aged twenty-four, were living | j
with them. On the 15th October my brother went to spend the j)
evening at the house of an old schoolfellow, where it was not i (
unusual for him to remain for the night, in order to avoid I j
coming home at a late hour. It was customary for him, if ! c
he happened to come home after my parents had gone to i;
bed, to go quietly to my mother’s bedside and to give her a I (
kiss if she was awake, and if not, to leave his hat upon the j)
dressing-table as a sign that he had been there. I (
“ She went to bed on October 15th without expecting his j)
return that night, but after her first sleep she woke up sud- j (
denly and saw him, as she thought, standing at the foot of | /
the bed ; she said softly, ‘ I am not asleep, my dear,’ but he | (
went awayinstead of going to kiss her; and this surprised her. j /
“ On the morning of the 16th October, at breakfast time, she j (
said tq me: ‘Where is Arthur?’ I replied, ‘He did not j/
come home last night, mamma.’ She answered, ‘Oh, yes jj
he did; and he came into my room when he was partly un- j)
dressed, but he did not speak to me as usual.’ In the course j j
of an hour my brother came in, and my mother asked him if !)
he had been into her room during the night. He assured j j
her he had not been. home. She said, ‘ It is very strange, j (
for I am quite convinced that some one was standing at the j j
foot of my bed when I awoke in the night.’ j (
“At about midday a letter arrived to inform us that our jj
cousin Frank, only a few years older than my brother Arthur, j (
had died at one o’clock that morning. My mother instantly jj
exclaimed, ‘ It was Frank whom I saw ! I can recall him to j (
mind distinctly as I saw him, and though at the time I jj
thought I was looking at Arthur, yet I thought there was 1 ‘
something strange in his appearance, and I could not under¬
stand why he came in to see me without his coat on.’”
31, Queen.Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London, June 21st, 18^9.
ALTERATION OE THE SIZE OF THU SPIRITUALIST.
REDUCTION OF THE ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION TO RESIDENTS IN
FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Post Office authorities have lowered the charge for the
transmission of printed papers within the limits of the Engr
lish and Foreign Postal Union to one-halfpenny when the
papers are not more than two ounces in weight.
Next week, at the beginning of the new volume, The
Spiritualist will be a little reduced in size. It will then be a
more convenient size for binding, and will go to foreign
countries within the limits of the Postal Union for a half¬
penny instead of a penny postage, most of the sheets being at
present over the prescribed weight.
This journal is an international organ among Spiritualists,
and has a heavy foreign circulation, the result of years of
growth. The change of next week will reduce the annual
subscription henceforth to readers, in many foreign countries,
from thirteen shillings to ten shillings and tenpence a year.
A WELL-TESTED MANIFESTATION.
At a recent stance at the house of Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, in the
presence of Mr. Eglinton and ’another non-professional me¬
dium, two chairs were threaded, at the same moment of time,
upon the arms of two sitters, each of whom was then holding
the hand of a medium. Mr. Serjeant Cox was holding the
hand of Mr. Eglinton, and the back of the chair passed
through his arm, giving him the sensation of a blow against
the elbow when it did so. When a light was struck, the
chair was seen hanging on Mr. Serjeant Cox’s arm, and his
hand was still grasping that of Mr. Eglinton. An immediate
examination of the chair showed that the back of it was in
good condition, with none of the woodwork loose or broken.
SPIRIT POETRY.
Mr. Thomas Lake Harris, in the course of one of his
trances, uttered some verses, purporting to be a relation of
the experience of Edgar A. Poe in his transition to the
spirit-world. Below we give some fragments :—
“ A lurid mantle wrapped my spirit-form,
Cradled in lightnings and m whirlwinds born;
Torn from the body, terribly downcast.
Plunged headlong through red furnaces in blast.
Those seething torrents maddened me—I fell,
But woke in Paradise instead of Hell!
Like song-waves circling in a golden bell,
Like fragrant odours in a woodbine dell,
Like glowing pistils in a rose unblown,
Like all sweet dreams to saints in slumber shown,
Like Heaven itself—like joy incarnate given,
And as a ship through wintry whirlwinds driven
Finds land-locked port in Araby the blest,
So I, through terror, entered into rest.”
A lovely maiden comes to the poet, who is filled with
rapture while she sings:—
“ ‘ I have waited, I have waited,
As the evening star belated.
When it lingers pale and lonely by the purple sunset door.
I have found thee, I have found thee,
And with heart-spells fast have bound thee.’
So from out the glowing halo sang the angel-maid, Lenore.”
The poet then rehearses the dark scenes of his earth-life—
“ All earth’s undivided sorrow ”—
which broke his young heart and veiled his spirit in the
gloom of a tempestuous night. The feeling of utter despera¬
tion which possessed his soul and burned in his brain like a
fire, and the blissful repose of the liberated spirit in the home
of the angels, are vividly contrasted in the closing stanzas:—
“ And I fled life’s outer portal.
Deeming anguish was immortal,
Crying, ‘ Launch thy heavy thunders—tell me never to adore.
Hate for hate and curse for curses,
Through abysmal universes.
Plunge me down as lost archangels fell despairingly of yore,’
So the whirlwind bore my spirit—
But to lands that saints inherit—
And it seems my heart for ever like a ruby cup runs o’er.
I am blest beyond all blessing,
And an angel’s pure caressing
Flows around my soul for eye? U^e a stream around its ahore.”
June 27, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
307
THETIRST SEVERE SURGICAL OPERATION PERFORMED IN | i
ENGLAND UNDER MESMEIIIC INFLUENCE. j |
• BY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES. K j
In the year 1842 the first capital operation undertaken in K j.
England during the mesmeric sleep was successfully per- j|j
formed by Mr. W. Squire Ward, M.R.C.S., at Wellow, near l)|
Ollerton, Notts. The mesmerizer was Mr. Topham—now if]
Colonel Sir William Topham, of Noirmont, Weybridge, ||'
Surrey. A full account of the case was read to the Royal j (j
Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, on T uesday, the j (j
22nd November, 1842, by Mr. Topham, and afterwards j/j
published in a pamphlet, which has been long out of print, m
On a future occasion I will supplement this report with one j (j
read by the operating surgeon, Mr. W. Squire Ward, before III
the same learned society, as it appears to me that so important | / j
a case ought to be rescued from oblivion. j) j
By many of your readers who are interested in mesmerism m
a reproduction of the details of this valuable and successful j \ j
case will, no doubt, be received with interest. |(|
In this case the improvement in the patient’s general n
health from the preliminary mesmerizations was remarkable, !)j
but the disease of the knee-joint was of such a nature that \>\
nothing short of a miracle could have saved him from an j(j
operation. This was evident from an examination of the !(i
limb after amputation. m
Man}' cases have been recorded of patients being mesmerized j j I
in order to prepare them for operations, but who derived such |)!
benefit from the treatment that the necessity for an operation m
was avoided. It appears to me that the necessity for an m
operation obviated is still more satisfactory than the most |(|
successful operation performed. IB
This has often been the effect of mesmerism, and the fact I|1
should not be lost sight of when the respective merits of |) |
chloroform, ether, and mesmerism as anaesthetics are com- j>j
pared. (j
H j,The patient whose case is here reported survived the opera- ]/!
tion more than thirty years. )i
The following is Mr. Topham’s address to the Royal jjj
Medical Society of London:— j (|
(c SUCCESSFUL AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH DURING THE MESMERIC STATE ;(|
WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OP THE PATIENT. m
“ Mr. President and Gentlemen,— In detailing the | j j
circumstances attending the important case I have the m
honour of communicating to this learned society, I shall m
abstain entirely from any preliminary remarks upon the u!
supposed cause of the effects I have produced. I shall still m
call the state ‘mesmerism/ because the term involves no J(|
principle—it regards the phenomena only—and not the m
specific cause of them. j (i
“ Whatever the agent may be through which the mes- j j j
merizer influences his patient, whether by a medium—some j (j
or the entire portion of which is already familiar to us under j) j
another designation—or by a medium totally new to our m
experience, it becomes me not now to inquire. jjj
“The generality of men, when they hear of some novel jjj
phenomena, instead of testing t/ie truth by experiment alone, j j j
endeavour to ascertain the cause by their own powers of jjj
reasoning, and belief or disbelief is made to follow the result, j jj
The startling phenomena of mesmerism have but too fre- jjj
quently illustrated this remark. . To facts I shall therefore j j j
confine myself, and to such only as I can personally vouch for. j j j
“James Wombell, aged forty-two, a labouring man of a calm i j j
and quiet temperament, had suffered for a period of about five j j j
years from a painful affection of the left knee. On the 21st j i j
day of June last, he was admitted into the District Hospital jjj
at Wellow, near Ollerton, Notts, no longer able to work and jjj
suffering much pain. It was soon found that amputation of j j j
the leg above the knee-joint was inevitable, and it was ijj
eventually proposed that it should be performed, if possible, jjj
during mesmeric sleep.
“I saw Wombell for the first time on the 9th of Sep¬
tember. He was sitting upright upon a bed in the hospital,
the only position which he could bear. He complained of
great pain from his knee, and of much excitability and loss
of strength, from his constant restlessness and deprivation of
sleep ; for he had not, during the three previous weeks, slept
more than two hours in seventy.
“ In the first attempt to mesmerise him, which occupied
me thirty-five minutes, the only effect produced was a closing
of the eyelids, with that quivering appearance peculiar to
mesmeric sleep, and, though awake and speaking, he could
not raise them until after the lapse of a minute and a half.
“ My attempt the next day was more successful, and in
twenty minutes he was asleep. I continued to mesmerise
him every day, except on the 18th, until the 24th of Sep¬
tember ; his susceptibility gradually increasing, so that, on
the 23 rd, the sleep was produced in four minutes and a half.
The duration of this sleep varied ; continuing generally for
half an hour ; sometimes for an hour ; and occasionally for
an hour and a half. But, with two exceptions (attempts to
converse with him), I invariably found him awakened, though
without being startled, by the violent pain in his knee;
which suddenly occurred at uncertain intervals.
“ The third time I saw him he was suffering great agony,
and distressed even to tears. I commenced by making passes
longitudinally over the diseased knee; in five minutes he
felt comparatively easy, and, on proceeding further to mes¬
merize him, at the expiration of ten minutes more, he was
sleeping like an infant. Not only his arms were then
violently pinched, but also the diseased leg itself, without
his exhibiting any sensation ; yet this limb was so sensitive
to pain in his natural state he could not bear even the
lightest covering to rest upon it. That night he slept seven
hours without interruption.
“ After constantly mesmerizing him for ten or twelve days,
a great change was observed in his appearance. The hue of
health returned; he became cheerful, felt much stronger;
was easier, both in mind and body ; slept well, and recovered
his appetite.
“ On the 22nd of September he was first apprised of the
necessity of an early amputation. The communication
seemed almost unexpected, and affected him considerably. I
this day tried the experiment of mesmerizing him against
his will, proceeding by contact with the hands, charging him
particularly to exert his mind to prevent my affecting him.
During the process he occasionally glanced at those near
him, moving his eyes as he felt inclined, and, in twelve
minutes and a half, passed into mesmeric sleep. The two or
three previous days, it had been affected in six minutes. He
informed me subsequently he had repeatedly called to mind
the intelligence j ust received, and the torture which he must
endure; but he soon found the influence irresistible, and
presently lost all consciousness. The anticipated loss of his
limb, however, that night destroyed his natural sleep. Next
day, though found still fretting, restless, and in consequent
pain, he was yet, by my touch, asleep in four minutes and a
half.
“ I was then absent, and did not see Wombell until the
28th. He was looking healthy and cheerful; his natural
sleep was sound and regular, and his pain soothed and
diminished. I was now convinced that the operation might
be safely attempted during mesmeric sleep, and with the
man’s firm consent, it was fixed for the Saturday following.
“ On the morning of Saturday, the 1st of October, I again
mesmerized Wombell, having done so the two previous days.
This was done in the presence of Mr. William Squire Ward,
of Wellow (the operator), and two other surgeons, in order
th^t the previous mesmerism, might tend, as I believed it
would, to render his sleep deeper when again mesmerized for
the operation; and also to satisfy them of the state in which
he would be when that time arrived.
“ He slept an hour, and was roused by an attempt to con¬
verse with him. I then showed them my power of affecting
any one of his limbs, even when he was quite awake. At my
request, he extended his arms alternately ; by making two or
three passes over each, without any contact, I so transfixed
them that from the shoulders to the tips of the fingers they
became as rigid and unyielding as bars of iron, not to be un¬
bent except by mechanical force powerful encragh to injure
808
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 27, 1879.
the limbs, and yet instantly relaxing throughout, and
dropping to his side, from the effect of my breath alone. His
right leg was affected in the same degree, and relief from im¬
mediate pain was frequently afforded by making similar
passes over the diseased one. Though the sensibility to pain
was diminished in the limbs thus affected whilst awake, it
was only during mesmeric sleep I found it totally gone.
“At half-past one o’clock we proceeded to Wombell’s
room, to make the necessary arrangements. From the
suffering inflicted by the slightest movement it was found
impossible, without needless torture, to place him upon a
table. The low bed on which he then lay was therefore
lifted upon a temporary platform. Ten minutes after being
mesmerized he was drawn, by means of the bed-clothes be¬
neath him, towards the end of the bed. The movement,
however, excited that pain which had so often aroused him
before, and now it did so again. There was something
quite excruciating in the suffering which the state of the
knee produced ; for I had seen him, whilst in mesmeric
sleep, pricked to some little depth in other parts of the dis¬
eased limb without being disturbed or conscious of it. To
preclude the necessity of any further movement, his leg was
now placed in the most convenient position which he could
bear. Shortly afterwards he declared that the pain had
ceased, and I again mesmerized him in four minutes. In a
quarter of an hour I informed Mr. Ward that he might
commence the operation. I then brought two fingers of each
hand gently in contact with Wombell’s closed eyelids, and
there kept them, still further to deepen the sleep. Mr.
Ward, after one earnest look at the man, slowly plunged his
knife into the centre of the outer side of the thigh, directly
to the' bone, and then made a clear incision round the bone.
The stillness at this moment was something awful; the calm
respiration of the sleeping man alone was heard, for all
other seem suspended. In making the second incision the
position of the leg was found more inconvenient than it had
appeared to be, and the operator could not proceed with his
former facility. Soon after the second incision, a moaning
•was heard from the patient, which continued at intervals
until the conclusion. It gave me the idea of a troubled
dream, for his sleep continued as profound as ever. The
placid look of his countenance never changed for an instant;
his whole frame rested uncontrolled in perfect stillness and
repose—not a muscle or nerve was seen to twitch. To the
end of the operation, including the sawing of the bone, se¬
curing the arteries, and applying the bandages—occupying
a period of upwards of twenty minutes—he lay like a
statue. Soon after the limb was removed, his pulse becoming
low from the loss of blood, some brandy-and-water was
poured down his throat, which he swallowed unconsciously.
As the last bandage was applied, I pointed out to one of the
surgeons and another gentleman present that peculiar quiver¬
ing of the closed eyelids already alluded to. Finally, when
all was completed, and Wombell was about to be removed, his
pulse being still found very low, some sal volatile and water
was administered to him ; it proved too strong and pungent,
and he gradually and calmly awoke.
“ At first, he uttered no exclamation, and for some moments
seemed lost and bewildered; but, after looking around, he
exclaimed, ‘ I bless the Lord to find it’s all over! ’ He was
then removed to another room ; and, following immediately,
I asked him in the presence of those assembled to describe all
he felt or knew after he was mesmerized. His reply was,
‘ / never knew anything more, and never felt any pain at all; I
oripe felt as if I heard a kind of crunching.’ I asked if that
were painful ? He replied, ‘ No pain at all | I never had any;
and knew'nothing, till I was awakened by that strong stuff’ (the
sal volatile). The ‘ crunching ’ no doubt was the sawing his
own thigh bone. He was left easy and comfortable and
still found so at nine o’clock that night; about which hour I
again mesmerized him (in a minute and three-quarters), and
he slept an hour and a half. I may further add that, on the
Monday following, the first dressing of his wound was in mes¬
meric sleep. Of this dressing, usually accompanied by much
soreness and smarting, he felt nothing; slept long after it was
completed, was ignorant of Mr. Ward’s intention, and, after
awakening, remained unconscious of its having been done.
Mr. W. S. Ward’s own valuable statement, in accordance
with his personal observation and care, prior and subsequent
to the operation, he has kindly permitted to be appended to
my own, and thus to render complete the narrative of this
case, which I leave without a syllable of comment.
“W. Topham.
“Middle Temple, Oct. 25, 1842.”
A SEANGE WITH MR. TOSTER.
j On Thursday evening, May 27th, we visited the rooms of Charles H.
I; Foster, No. 19, West 22nd-street, in search of light. Mr. Foster is widely
I celebrated as a spirit-medium, and we believe he has no superior in the
world. Personally he is a courteous, high-toned, polished gentleman,
against whom no scandal can be uttered with truth. His life is even,
temperate, and studious. He is a fine-looking man, about thirty-five years
I; of age, we should judge. There is nothing mysterious about him. He is
j: a man any one would be proud to call a brother, and he lives in such a
manner as to keep the body and mind healthy and ready for any
I emergency.
In company with a friend we called, and for the first time entered his
rooms at half-past eight p.m. He occupied a well-furnished first floor. His
j office or business-room faces the street, while a back parlour or reception-
I room at the back of his office, but with doors to the two rooms that can
j be thrown into one, furnishes a resting-place for those who may be waiting.
|! On entering, we found several ladies and gentlemen ahead of us. While
II they were chatting with Mr. Foster and one another, we asked for a sitting,
i | which was at once promised. A lady who was present when we entered
11 the room proposed to sit at the table also. Mr. Foster took a seat at the
I j end of a medium-sized, ordinary centre-table, in the centre of the room, his
! back to the window, which was open, so we could see and hear persons
j passing by on the street, a few yards from where we sat. To our right sat
j Mr. Foster. Opposite to us, the friend who went with us. To our left,
j the strange lady, fashionably attired. Soon as we were seated at the table,
i she said—
i| “I don’t believe in any of this stuff. It’s all a humbug, and I just know
> j it. I won’t believe anything if I see it; but go on. I am willing to be
'ij humbugged, and I want you to know that I shan’t be taken in, no matter
II what you do. So you may go ahead as fast as you can.”
11 To this saucy, ill-bred, impudent, unlady-like remark, Mr. Foster, with
| rare dignity, replied—
J j <£ Madam, if you will excuse us, we will proceed without you. If you do
(i not remain, surely you cannot be humbugged, and others will not be an-
f\ noyed. Good evening, madam.”
; i The lady, with a few friends, sailed out of the room. Half an hour later
} i she sent a note of apology for her insulting rudeness, and begged permission
I to return, but we believe her request was denied. The door leading to the
i back parlour was opened, and persons passing in and out of the room while
I the examination was going on, the room all tne while being completely illu¬
minated by gas-burners in the chandelier.
Said Mr. Foster—
i “We will now see who will come to us this evening. The room is full
of spirits who have never been here before. I feel their influences, new,
strange, and powerful. They have known of your coming. Please write
| on those small slips of paper a name on each slip. Be careful that I do not
see the name you write. Then fold the slips as close as you can, throw
them, mix them together, so none of us can tell from the looks which is
which, and we will proceed.”
On the table were a dozen slips of common writing-paper, and he kept
tearing them off, as a doctor would tear papers in which to put Dover pow-
| ders fora patient. On these slips we wrote the following names, one name
on each paper:—
“ Salmon P. Chase.”
| “ Charles Lobdell.”
j| ‘ “MyMother.”
) I “ Molly Starks.”
JI “ Dugald D. Cameron.”
(j We folded these slips of paper, an inch wide and about three inches long,
(j into the closest possible compass, so they were not over the twelfth of an
) | inch in width, shook the lot together, and threw them from our hand on
Ii the table. While we were doing this he was talking with our companion
who was seated at the table. When we were ready, Mr. Foster took up
the several papers and asked—
ft Who did you ask for P Please name one, and I will see if that spirit is
present.”..
We asked for Salmon P. Chase. He then took the bits of paper in his
fingers, one at a time, and pressed them against his forehead as a girl would
a piece of ribbon, threw down two or three of them, retained one to his
forehead a few seconds, and said—
“Ah! Chief Justice Chase is present. He wishes to communicate with
you. He will control my hand to write for you with a pencil! This is
i; really remarkable.. The room is filled with spirits, and they come trooping
) j in to see you. Chief Justice Chase stands close by you, between us.
7 i William H. Seward is at your right, leaning over your shoulder. There
i; are so many spirits here.”
S | | He threw down the piece of paper he had held to his forehead. We un-
) | folded it, to find that it was the one on which we had written, “ Salmon P.
) i Chase.” He took a pencil, and his hand went with a rapid, nervous, un-
< | steady motion, unlike anything natural, and this is the result:—
\ i “ Pomeroy! You are doing well to look after this matter, for it will be to
) j you far more than you yet realize. You have powerful friends working for
) 1 you—those who help you on in your good work, and those who will guide
I (I you safely through life. I live, thank God, and return to give my testi-
| (i mony for immortality. Seward comes with me. He is also standing by
j \ | your side. Salmon P. Chase.”
Mr. Foster resumed, turning his head from time, now to one side, then
June 27, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
309
to the other, and listening as if for whispers from invisible persons. Said |||
he— hi
“ The influences are remarkably strong here to-night, and wonderfully !) |
harmonious. It is delicious to feel such quiet, peace, and rest, and sucn j (j
gentle loving influences as come to you. A.h! here comes your mother, her I (i
face wreathed in smiles. She is leading by the hand her sister—your aunt, i)
She tells me to say that she loves you, oh! so much, and that she watches j /
over you all the time, and that you help to her happiness. Your aunt is |)
also happy.” ' SEISl. ■ f .iV- ■] \ }(
“ What is the name of my aunt ? . , . . fjj
“Will the spirit please tell me the name of her sister ? Adaline—Ada- j)
line—yes, that is it.” . ' , / ' [l
, “ But my mother had no sister named Adaline ! ” . , |(
“ How is it, spirit ? Will you please tell ? Yes; your mother says you j i
had an aunt Adaline—that she died, or was born into the real life, before j )
you was born to earth-life.” , ; • r j [ )
[This was news to us, and we have written to know if it be true.— |{
M. M.P.] . : Jt f ; |
“ Will you ask my mother to give you her name—her maiden name ? , j)
“ Will the spirit please tell her name before she was married ? Yes, yes— j )
I hear. Allen—Aliena—oh ! Orlina Rebecca White. Is that correct ? ” i (
/‘It is.”;, oo! i« .• > " ■ . : : , !
“Will you now please tell me if I have any other relatives who are present jo
in spirit, and in spirit-form discernible here to-night ? ” j)
“ Yes. Please call over the alphabet, beginning at the first letter, and j (
then I can get communication with them.” rr ; . , i ij
We did as requested, and began— b
“ A, B, C, D, E——• oh i hMbo a , . -- | j')
“ Stop! You have two aunts. Nearest to you, on the right, smiling so j /
sweetly as she looks at you, is your mother’s sister—Emily—-Emily Johns (<
—Jones—yes, I understand—Aunt Emily Jones; and another aunt, your 1}
mother’s sister—El—Elvira—yes. Aunt Elvira—Elvira Baker. Yes, yes ! j)
—I hear, I hear, I hear! There is a young woman with them; she is your I /
cousin—Cousin Emily Baker.” i, j j
“How will I know it is my cousin Emily ? Are you in such rapport h
with the spirits that you can hear them—understand them ? ” i)
“ Yes, they talk with me. Cousin Emily! what shall I say to your cousin j)
that he will know it is you indeed? Yes, yes—I hear! She says: j(
* Tell Cousin Mark that I otten go back to our old home, and to that spring j \
on the hill-side, on the edge of the wood, above our home—to that dear old j)
spring, the cool waters of which were so grateful to me, as for weeks I was !)
insensible to so much, and water was my only nourishment.’ ” j (
“ Will Cousin Emily tell you or tell me of what disease she died ? ” j (
“Will you please tell?—She does not know what was the name of the i j
disease. Her lungs gave way—her brain—she faded away;—did not die, but IJ
was translated, so to speak.” j (
“ Is Uncle Sam with them in the other life ? ” iy
“ Yes, Uncle Sam Baker is here also—he is with the group. They are j)
talking and laughing together about your natural inquisitiveness. Your i)
Uncle Sam is here—close by you now. He is larger, a little, than you are, \h
and says he will talk with you—will answer questions by raps, which he j <
will give himself.” j - . • . ; ; : ; j\
“Well, Uncle Sam, I am glad to know you are doing well. Do you go jj
a-hunting for deer and wolves as much as you did on Seeley Creek, when I , j )
was a little boy ?” , ; . ■ b- j'y
The response was one loud rap that fairly made the table jingle. It meant i (
“No,” and seemed to say in addition that we were a very impudent nephew to j >
ask, or to suppose that a man could or would go prowling about the woods, j V
days at a time, away from home, with a muzzle-loading rifle, two great dogs j-c
and a pipe, as Uncle Sam Baker did in his lifetime, when hunting was the j (
same pastime to him that it was to Daniel Boone. He need not have re- i)
plied so vigorous, for he was a good marksman and knew when to hunt and i)
how to find game. - Ij
“ Do you write poetry, or compose verses as you used to ? ” jj
The reply was three distinct, polite raps on the table, meaning “ Yes,” as j
if there were sense in the last question. In this life Uncle Sam Baker i |
wrote reams of poetry, some of which was published in the Elmira (N.Y.) j <
Gazette, when W. C. Rhodes was editor, away back so long ago that it i <
makes us feel bald-headed to think of it. And it was good poetry too— j j
better than three-fourths of the best now written. But it was a great deal j,
then as now. People thought a farmer and sort of backwoodsman had no 11
brains above slicing pumpkins for beef-cattle, and when a man did put his j1
head out of the window to ask to be heard, they pelted him with stones, j'
stuck up their noses and said, “ Humbug! ” j '
We asked several questions, all of which were correctly answered, and j
thus obtained no little information, pleasant if not important. Afterwards i
Mr. Poster, the medium, said— : ol yoatf I - I
“ There is another spirit leaning on the arm of your aunt. As yet she
cannot speak to you but says she will prove how much she loved and loves j
you as a friend, and will produce her initials in blood on the back of my hand, j
underneath or in the skin.” j
The medium here held out his hand, which was white and well shaped, j
Gradually come the form of letters, as in blood of a fiery red colour, just under j
the cuticle, till they stood out in bold relief, like the large veins on one’s
temple, distended when the head is filled with pain, the letters “ M. S.” He j
then picked up the several pieces of paper on which we had written, holding j
them one by one to his forehead, until he threw out one, on which, when |
unrolled, was read the name, Mollie Starks. j
We then asked if Dr. Cameron, formerly of La Crosse, was there. The |
reply was— . j
“ Yes, Dr. Cameron is here also, and says, ‘If you will come with your i
wife and another gentleman and his wife, some night next week, I have some- .
thing to tell you that will interest you, if nothing more.’ ” I
A request nad been made in our office a few days previous for us to ask a j
medium to inquire for David Weatherby. We did so. Mr. Poster asked— | <
“Is David Weatherby or his spirit present in this group to-night ?—No. i<
Chief Justice Chase tells me to say to you that he is nothin this circle, but
if you will tell where he lived on earth, he will s6nd a message to see if he
can be found.” ; > ■ W > si A .M .H —
The medium here bent his head like one listening for a person outside of
a house, and in a few moments said—
. “ Yes, yes. Mr. Chase has found David Weatherby, who cannot come to
this circle this evening. But he wants me to tell you that he was murdered
one night,, twenty years ago or a little more, and that his body was' thrown
into the river, a little way above the village of Addison (Steuben County,
New York);,- and that if James E. Jones will come here and ask for him, he
will come and tell him about it, or something that will interest him.”
The length of this chapter precludes the giving of still more of the result
of this evening’s examination of the phenomena which came to us with such
rapidly-increasing power. We have written to Col. Jones to come here and
go with us to learn further from David Weatherby, and shall give another
chapter of our experiences with Mr. Poster as a medium. Also a chapter
giving an account of the remarkable results of a materializing stance at our
residence, in our library, fitted up by us to still further test the mediumship
of Dr. Slade, of 413, Pourth Avenue. On this occasion, through the medium-
ship of Dr. Slade, some startling results were obtained, proving that he is
developing rapidly, and that his future as a medium will be far more remark¬
able than ever before; or that in jugglery and sleight-of-hand, and the per¬
forming of startling feats, he is more than a match for all the scientists' of
the world.
In the above narration we have given the mere facts of an interview, leav¬
ing the summing up and explanation of the phenomena till another time.
Another chapter will appear next week.
[Emily Baker, referred to above, will be remembered by a large number
of residents of Wells ^Township, Pa., and Southport and Elmira townships,
New York, and especially by the old physicians of that section. Her sick¬
ness was a peculiar one. Prom a robust girl of about eighteen, she began
failing, took to her bed and became insensible, and for weeks lay on a bed,
without power of speech or the ability to move a muscle. Por a month or
more she was like a dead person in all save that her body held a certain
amount of warmth. She did not breathe, apparently, and wasted away till
her body became actually transparent. Durmg the latter weeks of sickness
her only nourishment was water. This was before the days of icehouses in
that sparsely-settled vicinity, ten miles from Elmira, on Seeley Creek; or a
branch thereof. Up the hill, about eighty rods from the house where she
lived and died, was a spring from which flowed delicious cold water. The
young lady died in July, or during the haying season, twenty-five years since,
and for weeks previous to her death the young people of the neighbourhood
assisted her family in caring for the sufferer, and bringing a pail of cold
water every few hours, night and day, in which to wet a cloth to be placed
on her partly-opened bps as she lay there in a wasting trance, while friends
neighbours, and physicians came and went to watch the singular case.—M.
M. P.]—Fomeroy’s Democrat, June 7th, 1873.
“LOVE’S TRIUMPH.”
BY EDITH SAVILLE.
Lines on reading “ Love’s Triumph,” a poem by Ella Dietz. The spirit
Sappho speaks :—
“ I paid in song love’s penalty below,
But now in loftier fields my measures flow,
And mortals, lured by soft iEolian strings,
Repose beneath the shadow of my wings,
Inspired by thought-flames which around them glow.
“Or, under the sweet poesy of dreams,
They dive for pearls within our ocean streams,
And gather rarest gems from out its bed—
As by immortal bards their steps are led—
Inhaling gladness from celestial gleams.
“ A sister fair, now breathing on your earth,
Has found that in this land there is no dearth
Of song—for we, together, strung the chords of love
Which echoed from the choristers above.
Where each pure soul of melody has birth.
, -;r,“ We saw your white-hued flower droop on its stem;
And, fainter as its swan-like song became,
We caught its dying breath, and gave it life;
And now, within these realms, its earthly strife
Is ended—and * Love’s Triumph ’ shines a gem.
“ Thus iliortals—bouhd by love’s enthralling spell—
Can soar to planes on which her votaries dwell,
Can hearken to our choristers divine,
Drink from our fountains of celestial wine,
Or never could they such sweet story tell.”
A cokrespondent, writing from Bradford, Yorkshire, says that Sunday
services in connection with Spiritualism are held under the auspices of three
separate societies in three different places in that town. Mr. Armitage, of
Batley, lectures occasionally at the hall in Manchester-road, and those who
manage the services have several mediums iff their midst..
310
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 27, 1879.
MATERIALIZATION MANIFESTATIONS.
Mb.’ H. N. Shipman, an American lawyer, gives, in The Religio-Philo-
sophical Journal (Chicago), of the 7th of this month, the following account
of manifestations witnessed, after Mrs. Cobb, the medium, had been tho-
roughly searched. The stance did not take place on the premises of the
medium.
“ The cabinet in which the medium sat during the manifestation was in
the form of an oblong square, twenty-eight by forty-six inches wide and
long, and six feet in height, without top or bottom, and with a door in one
end about four feet high. From the top of the cabinet to the top of the
door hung a curtain of dark cloth, parted in the middle and suspended either
from a string or a lath, reaching from side to side and across the top. The
cabinet was made from inch matched pine boards, and was put together by
Mr. Justus Squire and Mr. Bassett, and is now in the possession of Mr.
Bassett.
“ The medium, Mrs. Newton Cobb, of Mantua, Portage, County 0., was
a woman of prepossessing appearance, apparently about forty-five years of
age, and of a rather full nabit. Her husband, who was with her, and her¬
self have the appearance of being honest, quiet, country people. Of the
seance held on the evening of the 8th I shall say but little, not having,
owing to the large number present, been fortunate enough to secure a good
seat in a favourable position; suffice it to say, that some eight different
spirits, or what purported to be spirits, appeared at the door of the cabinet
many of whom were recognized by the friends and relatives present; one
spirit tried hard to be recognized by me, but for the reasons above given I
was unable to do so, but from the description given me by those near the
cabinet, I have scarce any doubts but that it was my youngest brother, D. F.
Shipman, who was lost m the steamship Central America, in the year 1851.
“ On the second evening, at the request of the medium, only about twenty-,
five persons were admitted to the seance, and having been able to secure
seats for myself, wife, and daughter, within eight feet of the door of the
cabinet, I can speak with confidence as to what I saw and heard.
“ At about eight o’clock the medium submitted to an examination of her
wearing apparel by a committee composed of Mrs. M. A. Bronson, Mrs.
Perrin (postmistress at Clyde, 0.), ana Mrs. E. S. Shipman, two of whom
are professional milliners and dressmakers, and are supposed to know all in¬
tricacies of female apparel. The committee, after the examination, accom¬
panied the medium to the door of the cabinet, when Mrs. Bronson made the
statement that the medium was clothed in two garments of white muslin,
one drab felt skirt, pair of coloured cotton stockings, a pair of slippers, and a
black alpaca dress; her pockets were carefully divested of their contents, all
false hair, switches, and false teeth removed, and in this condition the medium
opened the door of the cabinet and in full view of the audience took her seat
in a chair placed at the back part of the cabinet (over the top of the cabinet
a dark-coloured blanket-shawl had been spread), the cabinet door was shut,
and the curtains dropped.
“ The front or first circle consisted of Mr. Perrin and Mrs. Perrin, of
Clyde, 0. (holding the office of mayor and postmistress in that village),
Mr. D. J. Starbird and wife, of Milan, Mr. Orlando Bassett, and Mrs. J. E.
Marsh, of Milan village, and Mr. Newton Cobb, husband of the medium.
“ These persons formed about one-half of a circle around the cabinet, which
was placed on the carpet in one corner of the room, and were about five or
six feet distant from the cabinet; the rest of the audience were seated in
circles, and as close to the first circle as they could be seated, the writer
being in the second circle and in front of the cabinet.
“ The lamp was then placed on a table back of the audience, and turned
down, but still giving enough light by which to see and distinguish plainly
the features of every person in all parts of the room. Music by the Mann
brothers, on guitar and violin was given us, and in some five minutes the
curtains of the cabinet were parted and the controlling spirit presented him¬
self to the audience. His features were plainly and distinctly seen by me
and by others, and I suppose by nearly all present. He appeared to be a
young man about seventeen years of age, with a full round face and dark
hair. He was dressed in a white cotton shirt, and vest of some dark cloth,with
no coat; the only garment worn by the medium representing this shirt, had
short sleeves, and hence could not fill the bill of the clothing worn by the
spirit. After bidding the audience good evening, he conversed in a per¬
fectly audible whisper with several persons in the room, answering plainly
and fairly the different questions asked him; and at the request of the
writer touched and patted my hand, which by my leaning forward and over
the first circle he was able to reach. After some five minutes spent in con¬
versation, he said that the light might be turned on, which was done and he
stood at the aperture sometning like a minute in a pretty strong light, and
then the curtain, which had all this time been held apart by invisible means,
and as he said by his waiters (both hands of the spirit being plainly visible),
dropped, and after a few minutes, was again parted and a man appeared who
claimed to be and was recognued, by Mr. Starbird and his wife, to be Star-
bird’s brother Frank, who was supposed by them to be still living. This
spirit and those who succeeded him, appeared to be unable to talk, and
only communicated by gestures, and with nods and shakes of the head in
answering the questions asked them. This spirit claimed to have been in
the spirit-land only about six months, but showed himself plainly and satis¬
factorily to the Starbirds.
“ After his disappearance then came to the opening a young man who
tried hard to be recognized by Mr. Perrin, and gave him to understand that
while in the flesh he had been sentenced to punishment by Mr. Perrin, as
mayor of Clyde, for the crime of getting intoxicated. After some five
minutes spent in the ineffectual attempt at recognition he gave way to the
spirit of Mr. Hamilton Colton, who had long resided, and died in the village
of Milan, and who departed this life some time last fall. He, while in life,
was a person of marked features, and as he appeared at the door of the
pabinet was immediately recognized by nearly, if not quite, every person in
the room; and while the curtains were held back by invisible means, the
writer having carefully searched for hooks, he with both hands stroked and
parted his lyhiskers, and pointed with his index fingers to different'persons
in the room. In answer to the question if he were Mr. Colton, he nodded
his head repeatedly, and thus answered by nods and shakes of the head, and
other gestures, the different questions asked him. He remained in full view,
and by turning his head in different positions, holding it partly out of the
cabinet for the space of five or six minutes satisfied me, and many, if not all
in the room, that he was’the person he represented himself to be. At the
expiration of this time, and with the curtains still held back, he gently
receded in the cabinet, and gradually dissolved in plain view of the audience,
and the curtains dropped and closed the cabinet.
“The next to appear was the spirit of a lady, who was immediately recbg-
nized bv myself, also by others, as my wife’s eldest sister, Mrs. Sarah Hardy,
nee Wilbor, who has been in the Spirit-land about sixteen years. She was
habilitated in the garments she was buried in, and, Mrs. S tells me, looked
exactly as she did while in the coffin, when she last saw her. She appeared
to be very strong, and able to put her head out of the cabinet so all could see
how her hair was combed and parted. She answered by gestures the
different questions asked her by Mrs. Shipman, concerning her father,
mother, and brother, now in the spirit-land. After some time thus passed
the curtains were held back (invisibly), and she gradually dissolved and
vanished from view.
“ The next spirit to appear was that of an elderly lady with her head bound
round with some kind of a white cloth, who was instantly recognized by Mr.
Charles Edridge, his wife and daughter (Mrs. Capt. Coulter) as the spirit of
Mrs. William Edridge, the first wife of the brother of Chas. Edridge, and who
had been dead about twenty years. After some time this spirit retired and
the curtain dropped, and we were informed by ‘ Jemmy,’ the controlling
spirit, that the stance was closed.
“ The light was turned up and the cabinet door opened, and the medium
found in an apparently unconscious condition, seated as she had been at the
beginning of the stance. At the close of the first stance, on the opening of
the cabinet. Dr. Catlin immediately entered the cabinet and reported the
medium’s pulse to be thirty-six per minute, accompanied with symptoms of
great prostration. In conclusion, Mr. Editor, let me say that I attended
these stances as a sceptic and expecting at the close to be able to account
in some manner for what I might or should see. I examined the cabinet to
find what held the curtains back, but found nothing; but I must acknowledge
that I am wholly unable to do so on any other theory save the one given by
themselves, to wit: That they are what they represent themselves to be, the
spirits of our departed friends and relatives. I ask no person to believe that
they are so simply because I say I saw them, from the fact that I myself prior
to this would have taken no person’s word to prove the facts stated above,
but would have done as others will do by me—simply give them credit for
thinking they saw them, whereas in fact they were the victims of deception.
But the fact still remains, that from the person and features of one person
in the cabinet, and with the clothing above mentioned, at the two stances,
some twelve distinct, differently clothed and featured individuals, male and
female, from youth to old age, have been presented and recognized by us as
friends and relatives dead and gone from us. H. N. Shipman.’’
Swedenbobg Society.—The annual meeting of this Society was held at
36, Bloomsbury-street, London, W.C., on Tuesday evening, June 17th, at
7 o’clock. Dr. Tafel presided. The report of the committee set forth that
5,000 volumes had been reprinted during the year. A small work, entitled
The Souls of Animals and Plants, will shortly be published and sold at a
low price. The purpose of the work, is to prove that man only is immortal,
and to show the true grounds upon which the doctrine rests. The number
of volumes delivered is 3,014. Theological students have been presented
with 229 volumes, and clergymen with 61 volumes. Free libraries
and other institutions have received 146 volumes. Of Mr. Dadoba Pan-
durung’s Reflections on the Waitings of Swedenborg 6,059 copies have
been issued, of which 1,475 copies have been circulated in India; 1,100 copies
presented to the editors of the Press in England; and 2,532 copies sold to
the general public. A translation of this work into the Marathi language,
and one of The Heaven and Hell into the Hindi language, are being pre¬
pared under the supervision of Mr. Pandurung. When completed, it is
mtended to circulate them freely in India, where there is a disposition to
examine the new views of Christianity Which are set forth in the above-
named works. Several extracts from letters of clergymen who had been
recipients of the works were quoted, one of which is as follows :—“ There
is far greater excellence in Swedenborg than I could find in him at first.
. . . . I have been much edified at last in reading him. 1 am anxious
to know more of him.” A popular author thus speaks of his indebtedness
to Swedenborg’s writings: “ All that I have ever accomplished worthily,
. . . . and, still more, all that I ever hope to accomplish in the
future, I trace to the warmth and enlightenment afforded by the works of
Swedenborg. He is the open window of the eye, through which heaven
attains to illuminate the darkness and fire the apathy of the world.” A
handsome marble bust of Swedenborg (executed by Preston Powers, of
Florence, son of the late Hiram Powers, and presented to the Society by the
Rev. A. Clissold and Miss Clissold) was unveiled during the evening, and
formed one of its most attractive features. The following resolutions were
passed unanimously, and the meeting terminated :—Resolved—“ That, in
the opinion of this meeting, the freedom of thought which is one of the
characteristics of our age, and which is fostered by the introduction of
liberal political institutions ; by the freedom of the press ; by the care de¬
voted to the primary education of the masses of the people; and the freedom
of investigation claimed by and accorded to men of science and philosophers,
is preparing humanity for the reception of an interior, rational system of
religion.” Resolved—“That, in the opinion of this meeting, the only system
of religion which satisfies at the same time the religious yearnings apd
aspirations of a sincere believer in Christianity, and expresses in a tangible,
rational form the highest spiritual ideals capable or being reached and
seized by enlightened human thought, are contained in the doctrines of the
New Chqrch, which the Lord revealed to mankind at His second coming
through'the instrumentality of Emanuel Swedenborg.”
June 27, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
311
Corresponuence.
{Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be
returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are
not oMowymous.] —— 
SPIRITUALISM IN MARYLEBONE.
Sir,—The “ Afghan ” or carriage rug made by Miss Fancher and alluded
to in The Spiritualist of February 21st, 1879, has been brought over from
America, and is now on exhibition at 25, Great Quebec-street, where a fair
is being held for the benefit of the Marylebone Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism. The fair will continue during this week, and the “Afghan” will
remain there till next Monday ; and as the price of admission is only six¬
pence I hope the friends of our great cause will be willing to contribute at
least that small sum to help the Marylebone Society out of a slight money
difficulty. Frances Y. Hallock.
“who wrote Shakespeare’s plays?”
Sir,—There are said to be fifteen thousand words in Shakespeare; only
eight thousand in Milton’s works. There are about five thousand words
used by educated people in common conversation; while, with the un¬
educated boor, only about five hundred words are used. The works called
Shakespeare’s works have enriched the English language more than those of
any other author, Lord Yerulam included, and it would be worth while for
those who believe them to have emanated from Lord Yerulam to inquire
whether the works known to be written by the latter exhibit the same
brilliant ideality, richness and variety of language, profuseness of wit, know¬
ledge of psychology, versatility of style, knowledge of human nature, and, I
may even add, profundity of thought as do those attributed to William
Shakespeare—that beloved and honoured name. W. R. Tomlinson.
ZULU WARFARE.
Sir,—To attempt to revive what has long since passed from my mind is,
for the inhabitant of a free atmosphere, rather difficult.
The secretary of the British National Association of Spiritualists writes
to Mrs. Lowe on the 13th June a letter of which I must express my un¬
qualified admiration for its literary ability and ingenuity. As I am, how¬
ever, the corpus vile of some of its remarks, I may have almost a right to be
heard in vindication not of the conduct of Mrs. Lowe in resigning (a course
which I have no doubt other sincere and honourable people will imitate), but
of myself. The words “ ex parte statement ” are used by the secretary
apparently in allusion to my publication of Mr. Bennett’s letter. The
query which I then tried to ask your readers—whether (1) Mr. Bennett
was acting in the simple, honourable, and fair manner which is cha¬
racteristic of him; whether (2) he acted at the suggestion of others,
without the official sanction of the Council being given to his pro¬
position ; or whether (3) the feelings communicated to me were the
result of a Council vote—has now received its solution. I had thought
the first answer was right; though I had reason to suspect the second
hypothesis, I dismissed it as one unworthy of an English or Irish gentleman,
and I now learn on the authority of the secretary that there is no doubt
whatever that “ any one ” who having resigned membership—having had
that resolution accepted and a vote of thanks given him, which must be
taken precisely at its value; having (even verbally) withdrawn the paper
which was put down for him to read before the Research Committee meet¬
ings, and distinctly assured some half-dozen persons that he was not coming
as a visitor to the Association again, is subject to the annoyance of being
written about months afterwards, and “ reminded ” of events which not only
never took place, but never were going to take place. The undersigned—
without too much self-laudation—scarcely needs to be “ reminded ” of what
is the customary practice in learned societies ; or what, in the plenitude of
wisdom, power, strength, and riches with which the Council of the British
Association (minus the names of Blackburn, Massey, Makdougall Gregory,
Martin Smith, Joy, Kislingbury, Bonwick, Dawe, Harrison, Joad, Lowe,
Newbould, Newton, and others) has now invested itself, will be the probable
fate of those other persons who, like Mrs. Lowe and myself, have had the
“ honour of resigning,” and who might perchance have a desire to visit some
personal friend or to accept the invitation which the-B.N.A.S. advertises-—
that visitors will be received and inquiries answered—without having any
desire to avail themselves of any hypothetical “ privileges.” To such persons
1 can only give as a source of consolation the last speech of Coriolanus (act
iii., scene 3), which might express their thoughts clad in more Elizabethan
language than I might have cared to adopt, it T had not been a “preter-plu-
perfect ” member ot the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Space forbids me now saying how heartily I agree with some of the
remarks of “A Spiritualist (?)” in your issues of last week and to-day, and
I hope that the advice he gives may bring forth good fruit in time. He
seems to have indicated the real subject on which we have so long been un¬
successfully labouring. C. Carter Blake.
28, East-street, Queen’s-square, London, June 20th, 1879.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE NEWSPAPERS.
Sir,—There is, in The Daily Telegraph, of June 6th, a fair article on
Spiritualism; it does not deny a single fact of the many it enumerates,
though they are as various in their character as some of them must be, to
the non-Spiritualist, astounding in their details. And yet, perhaps, the most
curious phenomenon in the whole article is the strange assertion, that “ ocu¬
lar deception may be at the root of the whole matter; ” though there is not
one of the senses, except that of tasting, which is not called into requisition
in the several details of Spiritualism contained in this article. There is, in
this article, not only an account of spirits appearing “ to solitary individuals
at inconvenient moments, sadly interfering with their comfort,” but also
allusions to “ confessions and confidences“guitar playings;” ghosts who
not only “knock the table, but who float in the air;” “haunted houses,”
\ I and “ furniture broken by mischievous tricks ; ” all coming with noises
ji striking the tympanum of the ears, but not all striking the optic nerves;
|| while one of the various apparitions, whose reality is not questioned in this
| article, is the form, at West Roxburgh, Massachusetts, of a little girl with
j golden hair, who comes “ ordinarily in broad daylight; ” and there are
j “ ladies who are bold enough to demand of this ghost a piece of its golden
| hair.” Golden hair, belt remembered, which can be felt as well as seen
| before “the locks are gradually de-materialized.” What is more, this in-
v I teresting phantom, so ordinarily incarnated, The Telegraph informs us, comes
\ j in “ a mist or cloud of pungent odour,” which odour necessarily, by its pun-
j | gency, must forcibly affect the olfactory nerves of those present. Here,
)! then, are details of hearing, feeling, and smelling, as well as of seeing; and
(| to entertain the question of the fifth sense, that of tasting, as regards so
'! material an apparition of so sweet a child, would most assuredly verge on
I the question of pgreism. So we will drop this part of the subject as beyond
our province. We have said enough to show that these phenomena cannot
all be''disproved by “ ocular deception.”
i Here, however, is a much more logical opinion arrived at in this same
article of June 6th—an opinion, indeed, which any Spiritualist might unhesi-
> | tatingly hold, and which, at length, seems almost a humble implied acknow-
!ledgment of, and apology for, The Telegraph’s ancient scorn, not to say mis¬
representations of Spiritualism. It says : “ While, therefore, it would be a
mistake to laugh at all unexplained incidents as due only to the disordered
I brain of those who claim to have observed them, it is necessary always to
I maintain a reserved attitude drawn from occurrences which cannot be readily
and reasonably explained. The whole experience of the past teaches that the
jumble of ignorance from which we are but now beginning to emerge is not
so much the normal condition of the human mind, as the outcome of a vast
accretion of superstitions and ill-regulated beliefs, which have augmented in
number and strength as the ages have rolled on.” True, the normal con di-
tion of the human mind implies, we believe, the power of communion with
\ i spirits in many instances; consequently this normal condition is actually
(found still among the aborigines of, I believe, every country lately or long
i since discovered; and it is the foundation of every religion, ancient and
1 modern—nay, it is natural religion, for, as M. Leon Favre expresses it, in
i The Spiritualist of June 13th : “ Spiritualism is the essence of all religions,
) i and there can be no religion without it.” And I need hardly remark that,
) I under such foundation, experience as well as tradition have taught us that
f| evil or unprogressed spirits have access thereby to man as well as good
(| and higher spirits.
j | What is the use of any religion if it does, not teach us to follow what is
) j, right, and to avoid what is wrong ? And this visitation of spirits of
) i different orders and characters, urging men to right or wrong, is no new
(I thing; it has been always believed in by men, as well as carried out by spirits
(| secretly; but it so happens that, since it has pleased Providence that spirits
) | should come openly and commonly—as they do now to Spiritualists, often
) | without their being sought—Spiritualists, no longer merely believing this, but
(| really knowing it from experience, are better able to avoid the evil and follow
(| the good, from being made fully aware of these visitations to which men
Shave always been subject through practical knowledge. Open enemies are,
or ought to be, always more easily avoided than secret ones; while good
and true visitants and mentors are always to be welcomed, whether apparent
or not, for to do good in secret is as precious as to do it openly.
This knowledge, gained by spirit-communion, gives to Spiritualists great
/\ . advantages over mere believers. We have keys to our caskets that others
(I have not; our scrolls lie open in our hands, while others hold them in sealed
(letters. And this knowledge makes us more wary than others as regards the
characters of spirits we have to deal with; for, as The Telegraph truly says :
I “It is necessary always to maintain a reserved attitude drawn from occur¬
rences which cannot be readily and reasonably explained.” A lack of this
(j reserve always has done, and is at this very time doing much harm in the
\ I churches. The churches are, for the most part, in the very simplest ignor-
j i ance concerning the very dangers that are undermining them ; while those
) i churches which are not ignorant, may make unhallowed use of them. I
(i hope to return to this subject on a future occasion. Scrutator.
ij Property in Thought.—Mr. Gladstone in the course of a recent speech
said :—“We have lived in this country, and I think in almost every other
country, in what may almost be called a new world, so far as the condition
of the author is concerned. Two hundred years ago there was no remunera¬
tion lor the author. He might write for fame, but I apprehend I should be very
> I near the mark indeed if I said that there was no such thing as earning one’s
; i bread by literature. Now we have entirely passed out of that phase, and no
)! man in literature now, be he small or be he great, thinks of a patron. The
(i one patron of the nineteenth century is the public. It is not a perfect
j! patron—its judgment is uncertain; much it overvalues, much it undervalues;
) | it is ignorant of much that deserves its notice;, but, notwithstanding these
) | defects, it is, I believe, upon the whole, a truer patron, and a juster patron,
< i and a more munificent patron than letters have ever had before, at any rate
(j in modern times, and in the modern condition of society. (Cheers.) It is
) | pleasant to think that commerce, and manufacture, and even law, and some
) i times medicine, can offer in various degrees, but all of them very substan
(i tially, to their votaries the means of creating fortunes which they can hand
\ | down honourably to their descendants, and that even literature has not been
j | shut out from that privilege. I trust it will never be spoiled and never be
) | corrupted. I trust the virgin purity of the muse, the absolute integrity of
) j mental labour and inquiry, which is a treasure that can never be brought
\ i into comparison with any other treasure whatever, may never be compromised,
j I in whole or in part, by the seductions of immediate popular applause. With
ithis reservation, I rejoice that men like the great Sir Walter Scott, like
Charles Dickens, and like Alfred Tennyson—whom we still have the pleasure
j and honour of seeing among us—have received from the public such an
| acknowledgment at least of their works as, if not an adequate reward, yet
j is still a substantial evidence of gratitude, and is in the nature of an absolute
1 guarantee of the freedom add independence of modern literary work,”
312 THE; SPIRITUALIST. June 27, 1879.
The new book, Spirits Before our Eyes, is chiefly intended. to carry : j,
conviction to the minds of readers that some sections of the phenomena of j(
Spiritualism are produced by the spirits of deceased:human beings, and that
no other theory will cover the whole range of the well-attested facts »j|,
advanced.'.,., > aitf.f ... bh dm6*orfw 'tiib/fl* iff'
The new branch office of The Spiritualist is at 33, Museium-street, T
Great Hussell-street, Xiondon. Mr. Charles Blackburn has taken a room I (
on the same premises, in which experimental research into some of the i i
phenomena of Spiritualism will be carried on, and the new weighing p
machinery, now nearing completion under the hands of Messrs.. Varley 11
Brothers, be fitted up. : • j]
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A pew more packages of surplus back numbers of The Spiritualist for free
distribution may be had gratis by applicants, carriage unpaid.
Mk. Hakrison will be in Yorkshire in August, and glad to witness any
interesting manifestations through good local mediums.
Delphi.—If you put your name and address to your letter criticising
named people we will publish it, although one-third of it , consists of easy
problems you should have solved already, and it is rather waste of space to
introduce them into these pages. If a spirit takes on material conditions
from the body of a medium, it is irrational to argue that for the time being
it ought not to be subject to those conditions. And if some scores of pounds
of matter are taken temporarily from the body of a medium, it is irrational
to ask what possible harm could be done if the process were to be interrupted
by acts of violence. If it is a law that the lower the spirit the greater is its
direct control over common matter, no good is done by calling attention to
exceptional pranks, which might have been expected as part of the outcome
of the working of such an excellent law. If non-critical people accept
literally the utterances of a certain class of trance-speakers, it is waste of
energy to attempt to fasten such belief on Spiritualists at large. -
Just Published, j)
THE FIRST VOLUME OF |
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES. ; .1
By WILLIAM H. HABRISON. ; , : |
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism j)
is produced by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over ; (
the river of Death. It contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving j (
that the said spirits are the persons they say they are. The work, from !(
beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity. j (
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific j)
methods, giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow |)
from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of j)
Spontaneous Apparitions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some f /
of the phenomena connected with them. The connection between Spontaneous I (
Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism and Spirit Circles is also 11
made clear, , . " " , ; • )
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work j \
is almost entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the j)
trustworthiness of the anonymous narrator. j P
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper, and handsomely bound in j)
half-calf, 8s. 6d., post free. Cloth edition, 5s. 6d., post free. | /
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. j)
Price 3s. fid. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 .pp. j)
STUDIEN UBER DIE GKEISTERWELT, ]
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbeand). j |
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. fid., post free (Illustrated with diagrams) I \
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF. | |
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London. j)
Price Three Shillings and Sixpence. Imperial 8vo. Red edges. I \
“ RIFTS IN THE YEIL.” j
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best I)
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of i (
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD, |
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a j (
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens, i >
The book also contains some j)
SPIRIT TEACHINGS, |
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon)/ ? , ■ K
This book is one of the cheapest and most elegant works ever published |)
in connection with Spiritualism. j(
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. j)
Just Published, i \ j)
SPIRIT-IDENTITY. . |
By “ M.A. (Oxon).”   H (j
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s. post free. ! j (j
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C. I > 1
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol, II. Treating op the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. fid.
Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. fid. ; the work complete, 22s. fid.
CONTENTS : ,
PART tl.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro¬
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration ; |4.‘ Of Mental Sympathy and Communion ; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
Book II. —The Abnormal Action of the Mechanism. —Chapter 1. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future ; 2. How to be Pursued; 3. Objections and
Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea ;
6. How we Know ; 7. Scientific Evidence ; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; .2. The
Physiology of Sleep ; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep; 4. The Seat of
Sleep ; 5. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream ; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9, The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
BookIV.—The Phenomena of Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
2. Insanity.
Book V. The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism ; 3. Natural Somnambulism ; 4. Artificial Somnambulism ;
5. ThePhencmenaof Artificial Somnambulism ; 6. The Physiology of Somnam¬
bulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI.—Supersensuous Perception.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The Phenomena of Trance
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII.—Psychism. — Introduction; Chapter 1. Objections and
Objectors; 2, The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force; 4. The Methods of Inves¬
tigation ; 5. The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic ; 7. The Physio¬
logy of Psychic Force ; 8. The Directing Intelligence ; 9. Phenomena of
Psychism; 10. More Phenomena of Psychism; 11. Other Phenomena of
Psychism; 12. Communicated Phenomena; 13. The Physiology and Psy¬
chology of Psychism.
Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up; 2. Conclusions.
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth, Red edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit¬
ualism, and setting forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W. C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious
Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place
and Function — Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism — The
Phih sophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity : Its Place andHuman
Elements. 1 : i;
London : Trubner and Co., 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By Captain John James
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an author who has had thirty years’ experience in
Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism,
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
June 27, 1879.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHO¬
LOGY, MESMERISM, ANTHROPO¬
LOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
uah'sm, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, London,
■w.o.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has
been rented on the premises of the National Association of
Spiritualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist News¬
paper and publishing business are not in any way connected
with each other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crooks, F.R.S. The best work
ever published to scientifically demonstrate the reality
of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to
reveal to him by vision events connected with the early
history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus
saw the Mastodon and other extinct animals as if living
and moving before them; they likewise saw the scenes
by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions
of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation
of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engrav¬
ings, drawn by the sensitives as the visions passed
before their eyes. The substance of a review of this
book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there
is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants
who would not cheat him. The question as to the
reliability of the narratives therefore narrows itself down
to the question of the reliability of clairvoyance, which,
when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate
results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary
communication should be established, it will be by
means of clairvoyance or some other of the latent and
little understood spiritual powers in man. Three vols.
24s. ; or 8s. per single volume.
WORKS BT ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia , .78
The Teacher. „ II. ,, ..76
The Seer. ,, III. ,, . ,76
The Reformer. ,, IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. ,, V. ,, ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . • . .76
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology . .60
Answers to Ever-recurrring Questions from the People. 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . ..36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .36
Harbinger of Health . , . . ,.7 6
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer "(Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . ■ ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life: or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves. .70
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . .60
Tale of a Physician; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
Oriental Religion (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little
book, recommended by The Spiiutualist news¬
paper . . . . . ..26
Keys of the Creeds . , , . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing
interesting particulars and legends relating to
Buddhism . . . . , . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . , 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . , .16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale
Owen . . . . . . .76
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the
Zulus, by the Rev Henry Gallaway, M.D. In six
parts . . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into
English, with Preliminary Essays and Explana¬
tory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions
interpreted by Comparative Mythology, by John
Fiske, M.A. . . . . . . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an
Indian Officer , . . . . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into
English from the Chinese Classes, by James Legge,
D.D., LL.D. . . . . . . 12 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P.
Brown, Secretary of the Legation of the United
States of America at Constantinople . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia,
North Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin
Tljibrpe. In three vols. . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahom-
med. Translated into English immediately from
thexiriginal Arabic,by George Sale . , , . 10 6
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’dtudes psycho-
logiques, fond^ par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Societe
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
Price Five Shillings. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),” out
PSYOHOG RAPHY.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the subject. .
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbd—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That attested by the senses :—
1. —Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Barns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. —Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
George King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls,
Baroness Von Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.
Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan, Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John
Wetherbee, H. B. Storer, C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee
with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the
Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr.
Blackburn (Slade) ; Dutch, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese (Slade); Russian—Evidenbe of Madame
Blavatsky (Watkins) ; Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timay-
enis (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Prepa¬
ration of the Writing :—
Psychics and Conjurers Contrasted ; Slade before the
Research Committee of the British National Association Of
Spiritualists. Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.;
Evidence of—Rev. J. Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J.
Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely screwed
together—Evidence of Mrs. Andrews and J. Mould; Dicta¬
tion of Words at the Time of the Experiment—Evidence of—
A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.,
Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld, M.D., Miss
Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside a
Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments withF. W. Monck
were conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with
White Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the subject of the
Prosecution of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and
Professor Barnett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.' *
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: its Mode of Operation—Evidence
of C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George WyId’s Theory; The Oculist’s Theory; The Spirit¬
ualist’s Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Appa¬
ritions—The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox,
J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers, D. D. Hume, and
Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapteb II. — Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—Emerson
—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits atjMoravia, N.Y.,
and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—
Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship
of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Ex¬
periments—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. SerjeantCox—The Dialec¬
tical Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there' Two Sub¬
stances P — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits —•
Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Descartes—Spinoza
—Herbert Spencer—Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power
over Matter—Testimony of S. 0. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit —1 The Senses—
Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine
of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship — Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dumphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmore,
Mrs, Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—Conclusive Experi¬
ments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter. IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr.
C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen. Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trust worthiness of Seer-
ship—Swedenborg—Kardeo—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge
— Bacon — Luther—Calvin — Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-
Materialisation of Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in
God — Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine
Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—
The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Mora’ity — Sin
Punishes Itself — A Moral Creed — The Teachings of
Spiritualism.
Chapter XVH.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections
to Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe—
James Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts. :
Chapter XVIII/—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—
Concluding Reflections.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
iii
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE YEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritu¬
alists. A useful book to place in the public libraries, and to
present or send to those who are unacquainted with Spiritu¬
alism. It contains much about the religious aspect of
Spiritualism (given through the writing medium ship of
“M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of the most refined and elegant
works ever printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through
the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.'
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens.
How the writings wererproduced : The Magnificent Egotist,
Sapsea. . Mr. Stollop reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind
Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr.- Peter Peck-
craft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon
(Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-ruedium-
ship of Lizzie Doten..
X. —Ode by “Adamanta.” .
XL—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A.
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marry at.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By, F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritual¬
ism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profdndis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modejrn Spiritualism. By
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisling¬
bury from the German of Schiller.
XXVII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Chris¬
tianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat,
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke. '
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Hamson.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wortherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritu¬
alism.
XXXVin.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in
India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzie )
by Emily , Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the-Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation
to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLJY.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REYIEW,
Formerly issued Quarterly at 2s. 6d., is now published
Monthly at 6d., or 7s. per annum in advance, post free.
CONTENTS EOR MAT.
The Existing Breach between Modem Culture and the
Popular Faith; by John S. Farmer—An English Seeress of
the 17th Centuryby J. W. F.—Spiritualism in Chili; by
Perigrinus—Some Spiritual Experiences of the Celebrated.
Italian Physician, Jerome Cardan ; by A. M. H. W.—A Priori
Proof of the Probable Truth of Spiritualism; by Alex. Munro,
M.D.— Progression by Antagonism; by M.—The Future of
Spiritualism; by Thomas Shorter.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
Glasgow : Hay Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework-Jane.
P. O. Orders payable to Hay Nisbet and Co., as above.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT- MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces,
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can
be given. 6 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON N.W
;iv
' Just Published.
Price Fire" Shillings. Crown 8vo,
richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PPOSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HAEBISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
"Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton
and the Author.
CONTBNTS.
Pabt 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
■ 1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. Thefiong of the News¬
paper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker—4. The
Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.
—7, How Hadji A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter
from Hadji A1 Shacabac, a gentleman who visited London
on business connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at
Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gardener.—
11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12 Our Raven.—13. Material¬
istic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Photographer.—15. How
to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song o’’
the Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old
Joe 1”—19. The Human Hive.—20. * The Lay of the Mace-
Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the
Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence*
Pabt 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Woiblejaw.
95. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at
Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s Lament.—£9.
The July Bug.—30. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in
review nekrly a column long, says:—"Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming
a thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr.
Harrison, exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the
praise of all who are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent
laugh. Not that his muse restricts herself only to such
lighter utterances ; on the contrary, some of his poems
touch on the deepest and most sacred reelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his
adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published ior years.
. . . The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome
from which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The
Morning Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“Noone can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes are
pitched in “ something like the same key as The Bon
Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Payers, with an appreciably
■successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally we find verse
cf great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure
poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour
should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings.
Written, printed, published and reviewed by William H.
Harrison (38, Great Russell-street). Both the verses and the
short essays are really funny, and in some of the latter there
is a vein of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun.
The Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather severe,
and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers ; but one of the most
"laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be
photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse. . . . Some of the
metrical legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be
Sung at the meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or
fifteen years ago. Mr. Harrison, however, knows where to
plant his fun, and an accurate scientific mind like his can
make jokes with success. ... To all who wish to read a
pleasant volume magnificently got up as a gift-book, we
commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“ An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original,
and not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
V Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases
alluded to, and the imprint bears that the work is published
‘a.d. 1877 (popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada);
a.m, 60,800,077 (Huxley).’ We believe that our readers
may derive a little amusement from a perusal of the
volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of
which are in verse and others in prose, some scientific,
others social, but all of them excellent. . . . The Lazy Lays
will make excellent and amusing reading for an occasional
spare half-hour. . . . They contain nothing unrefined or in
bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photo¬
graphed, is well done. . . . Bound in a cover of somewhat
powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar
in connection with photographic and other scientific
literature, has considerable facility of versification, and
deals, in pleasant and humorous mood, with many scientific
follies which are better laughed down than gravely dis¬
puted.” ■
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with
a due foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has
produced a most welcome book. . . . ‘ How Hadji A1
Shacabac was Photographed ’ will be sure to make every
reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be
expected, that his subjects should bear some trace of this
peculiar idiosyncrasy, and indeed they are as free and easy
THE SPIRITU ALI ST.
as himself. . . . The poems are all characterised by smooth¬
ness and rhythmical swing. .. . The work is very elaborately
bound in cloth and gilt. ... A gorgeous design upon the
cover. ... If our readers wish to encourage laziness they
have a most deserving object in a very clever and versatile
member of the order.”
• From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays,
Mr. William H. Harrisou provides a gift-book elegant in its
appearance and entertaining in its contents. . .. . The author
is imbued with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all
while offending none ”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison*
a well-known contributor to the London and provincial
press, and editor of The Spirituulist. . . . Many of the
humorous poems reminds us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The
Lay of the Photographer, The Lay of the Mace-bearers, and some
of The Wobblejaw Ballads would not have been unworthy of
Barham himself. Some of the shorter poems are exquisite,
and there pervade through the whole a religious sentiment
and poetie feeling which will make them acceptable to most
readers.”
From the Daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
" The finest thing in the book is ' How Hadji A1 Shacabac
was Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not
too extensive comic literature. The story is one of which
extracts would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely
humorous. . . . Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-
book of an amusing nature, will find what they want in The
Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily lost.
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . . . The serious and sentimental verses belong to
the type of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”'
From The Kensington News.
“ It is after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain,
or any of ihose merry souls who do quite as much good in
their day and generation as the authors of the most serious
works. The Lays are always original, sometimes serious,
generally comic, but never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast or its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty ;
full of lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts,
abounding in tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit
and humour; and one that may be read many times over. .
. . The get-up of the book is very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled ‘ The "Wobblejaw Ballads,’
which appeared in the columns of this paper a short time
ago, and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.
An irate member of the Town Council officially called the
attention of the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the
burlesques in the ‘Wobblejaw Ballads,’ but the members
assembled laughed at the matter, and proceeded to the next
business. The Mayor said that he did not mind them.] ...
“ It contains some very choice poems and prose essays, is
bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original design of no
ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7id.; cloth.
• Pbizb Essays.
The peobable effects of spieit-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL. MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green,
These Essays won the Fibst and Second Gold Medals of
the British National Association oe Spibitualists.
The Apm/ttaZisi Newspaper Branch Office, London.
The teapped medium ; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant. Dr. Proto¬
plaster, in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It
is an excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men and disbelievers in Spiritualism generally. A review
of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet
displays real genius. Price 6d.; post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
OEANCES.—Tuesday and Friday afternoons,
O at four o’clock, at Mrs. Parker’s, with three new
American mediums, and an “ Irish girl ” medium. Raps and
messages through the alphabet. Names given ; planchette,
drawing, and tests through the girl, who is only nine years
old. No fees taken; donations only.
PEIMITIYE CHEISTIANITY AND
MODEEN SPIEITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spirituahsm for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena
for a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent maimer
with the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d, per volume.
London : Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIEITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size
of those of The Engineer newspaper), strongly and hand¬
somely bound in one, in half calf, red edges. They contain
records relating to Spiritualism in Great Britain from the end
of the year 1869 to the end of 1872, and ai tides and letters
by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F. Varley, The
Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of how
the Royal Society and British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr.
Crookes’s papers on the physicalphenomenaof Spirituahsm,
as the Royal Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery
of lightning conductors. Very scarce. These two volumes
cannot be had separately. Price, carriage paid to any rail¬
way station in the United Kingdom, £1 10s.
London : W. H. Haebison, 38, Great Russell-strset, W.C.
June $7, 1879*
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
■ ‘y
animal magnetism, .n.>
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University. ■
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll. ^ ,
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its
quality and size, the cheapest large work ever published in
this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just pubhshed, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—
Sensations—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep
or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-
Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over
the Subject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feel¬
ings in the Look and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthful¬
ness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep
Caused by Silent Will ; and at a Distance—Attraction
Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Com¬
mands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations
of Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhi¬
bitions of Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the By¬
standers—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medica
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Anti¬
pathies—Existence of a Peculiar Farce or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision,
without the Eyes—Vision oi Near Object: through Opaque
Bodies ; at a Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in
Regard to Absent Persons^—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.,
Predicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of
the Seer—Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting
Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—
Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of
Speech and of Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—
Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI :—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-
Psychology and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Pheno¬
mena of Suggestions in the Conscious or Waking State—
Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised
by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The
Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The
Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII :—Trance, Natural and Accidental
Mesmeric—Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col,
Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not all Impostors—
Luminous Emanations — Extasis often Predicted— M.
Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phre¬
nology—Effects of Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety
in the Phenomena—Suggestions—Symiathy—There are
Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do not
Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible
of Mesmerism—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—
Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., oh the
Human Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is
Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the
Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Od.vlic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—
Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—
Physiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insanity,
Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sigh t
is Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena
Attempted or Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally
Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the Medium of
Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of
the Subject—Effects of Odyle— Somnambulisn—Suggestion—
Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Eman¬
ations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid
Perception of the Future*
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of
Science—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints
—Conditions of Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure
—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious
or Waking State— Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an
Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and With¬
out Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—
Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or
by Concentration—Major Buckley’s Method—Oases—The
Magic Crystal Induces Waking Lucidity, when Gazed at—
Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIIIProduction of the Mesmeric Sleep—
Cases—Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the
Author Thrown into- Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced with¬
out the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—
Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathic Clairvoyance in
the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Frank¬
lin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV :—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travel¬
ling Clairvoyance—Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—
Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—Clairvoyance of
Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous
Mesmeric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con¬
cluding Remarks, and Summary.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidge & Co., at the
Holbcm Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in. the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar jind St. George
the Martyr, London, and pubhshed by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.0,
