Registered as a Newspaper,
#Itasf St^tos^a:^ tmttMhh toxt^ Spntwalism m (ix'-eat §ntam*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera'di Chiaja, opp'osite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgoniery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”.
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 10x0, Seventh-street.
No. 290.—(VOL. XII.—No. 11.) LONDON : FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontentg.
Religious Toleration      121
Is Man’s Immortality Conditional ? By Frederica Showers 121
Isis Unveiled and the Todas ...   122
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—
Inquirers’ Seance ;.    122
A Retrospective View of Spiritualism in 1877. By Alex¬
ander Calder, President of the British National Asso-.
elation of Spiritualists:—“ Passed to the Higher Life ”
—Dr. Slade’s Career on the Continent—The Literature
of 'Spiritualism and Anti-Spiritualism—Mr. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., on Spiritualism and Christianity—
Psychic Force, “ Everittism,” and Occultism—Friendly
Union among Spiritualists  ... 123
Evidence of the Personal Identity of Certain Communi¬
cating Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand)   ... ... 126
Spiritualism and Theosophy: a Last Word. By M.A.,
Oxon  ...     126
Correspondence:—Isis Unveiled—Daily Newspaper Mis¬
representations — The Inspiration of the Hebrew
Prophets—Christianity versus Buddhism—Visions ... 127
British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of
the Council...'    130
The Evolution Theory Considered in its Relation to Psy¬
chology. By G. F. Green, Author of One of the Prize
Essays of the National Association of Spiritualists:—
Human Life         ... ... 131
Answers to Correspondents    132
Paragraphs:—Women’s Freedom, 122 ; The Quarterly
Review on Scientific Dogmatism... 132
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESIABIilSHRD IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;-His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenbergh Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the *• Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.J Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
oury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United ^Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post (Tee.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ohurchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
ASTROLOGY. “ Worth its weight in gold.”
Every adult person living should purchase at once
“ YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD," a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Berger, Newcastle-street, and J. Burns; or
post-free of E. Oasael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for March, 1878.
Friday, 15f/i.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30. p.m. .
„ „ v Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 19fft.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.15 p.m.
Wednesday, 20f/t.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ House'and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, Tlnd.—Seance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ . „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„\ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 25ffc.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
„ „ “The Spirit-World as seen through Crys¬
tals, Mirrors, and Vessels of Water,” by
Dr. Kenneth Mackenzie, F.S.A.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
The Seances for Inquirers will be suspended during the
early part of the month, after which they will be re-organised
on a new basis. Particulars may be learned from the Secre¬
tary. Private Seances for Members are arranged at intervals,
when the Secretary has received a sufficient number of appli¬
cations. Tickets, 5s. each.
LIBRARY.
The Library Committee has a complete set of the Revue
Spi/rite for sale for the year 1875, including several spirit
photographs by Buguet, of Paris. Also second-hand copies of
the Banner of Light for the greater part of the year 1877, and of
Psychic Studies, more or less incomplete, since the year 1864.
The Committee would be glad to exchange some of these for
complete sets of the Christian Spiritualist.
BRIXT0N PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to,rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sro.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
n E C I T A T I O N 8
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
Every Thursday in February and March, at 8.15 p.m.
Changes will be made in each Programme.
n Tickets may be had at Mitchell’s library, 33, Old Bond- street;
Hayes’s box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall: or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of eight recitations, one guinea each. Single tickets—Stalls,
3a.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Prjce 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal qf Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.;
post free, seven stamps.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Oox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subseribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may he obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner Si Co., London.
Just published, price 5s., richly gilt,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Senglreef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta ”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. BytheBaroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna iBlackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow's Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voica of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, P.R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, W.C,
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aaa the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
earriagejpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 80, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.OJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed,
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveni isr.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Marcs 15, 1878,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Harkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bemard-villas, upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughbor«ugh-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs.,.52, Warwick-square, S. W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, o. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D.,12, Great Cumberland-plaoe, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sir'awhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawferidge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock. St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Ormn-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixtoh, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de i’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-viUa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton.Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq^ M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Shear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S A..
J. H. Gledstanes; Esq., 33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocrol, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S,A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gkmcester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomecry-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.-Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, B.uda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Mohtgomery-place, Boston, U.S A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr.R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris,
Herr J. H. Stratll, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-roan, Brixton, S.W.
Thefipiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spirftuallsih. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad;Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
STROLOGY, a Popular Sketch of
- Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Book, &c. Price
Is. 6d.. Sent post free by the author on reeeipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OF ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers tlfe price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cf-c., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E, W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s, 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7s, 64, cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritnal tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby AND Rich. London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London Simpkin, Marshall & Co. 
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Mouse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road Derby.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT; The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., Ac. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five,
MRS, S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
■   S.W.   , 
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C,
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes. 
MRS. C. E. BASSETT,
9, CHOBHAM TERRACE, CHOBHAM ROAD, STRATFORD,
  LONDON, E. 
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Rapa.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.   
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment. 
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
 London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C,
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.C.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sar&ent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modem Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Ip
s>
Vo^u^e Twelve. Number JEJleve^.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
RELIGIOUS TOLERATION.
In gathering together within these pages the opinions of I!
the followers of all the great beliefs of the world, it is j
pleasing to see the gentleness with which deep thinkers of j1
all religions treat each other, and how small are the real ! i
divisions between them when they consider the points at j
issue without dogmatism. But this approximate harmony |;
is not attained without occasional difficulty; now and then 11
we reject communications because the writers do not treat {j
the religious convictions of their opponents with respect. ||
The religious sentiments of any man comprise the highest j i
ideals his mind can conceive, and violent attacks upon the j!
innermost shrine of his consciousness merely lead to bitter-
ness of feeling and dislike to the religious ideas of his I
aggressive opponent. Contributors to these columns are,
therefore, requested to advance their own views, not by j
attempting to rudely shiver that which is dear to others
who may or may not be less advanced than themselves, |
but to present their own ideals in such high and attractive j
forms that they shall be voluntarily adopted. The publica¬
tion of more letters than usual has been stopped of late,
because the writers have not been careful to treat with
proper courtesy those from whom they differ in opinion.
The majority of our readers also, have little sympathy with
aggressive writers, who are too ready to wield the tomahawk.
IS MAN’S IMMORTALITY CONDITIONAL 1
BY FREDERICA SHOWERS.
In Tfie Spiritualist of last week you call upon Theosophists
to furnish Spiritualists with some evidence of the occasional
annihilation of the soul. Now, it appears to me, that this x
is a sort of evidence which it is clearly impossible for them j
to furnish, otherwise than by consistently employing the j
conclusions arrived at by other thinkers, and by giving well- j
attested and trustworthy accounts of the teachings of spirits j
themselves. About two years ago—under most remarkable j
circumstances—I obtained some testimony which leads me j
to conclude that this assertion of the Theosophists, regarding j
the spirit, is substantially true, notwithstanding the almost
insuperable difficulties that lie in the way of demonstrating j
its truth.
I will proceed to relate an incident in my own somewhat J
uncommon el experiences,” in the hope that this communi- j1
cation of mine may be instrumental either in diffusing, or
confirming, or kindling faith and confidence in the blessed
intelligences who unquestionably surround us, in one of
whom my trust is absolute, not solely on account of the high
moral character—nay, holiness—of his teachings, but because
of the incontestable proofs that have been furnished us, of
his prescience, prevision, and power. With all becoming
deference to the high intellectual attainments and unques¬
tionable sincerity of those gentlemen who are examining
spiritual phenomena, with minds apparently made up as to
the results of investigations that they have only half way
completed, I beg to affirm that the spirit who gave the com- !
munication to which I refer was not my spirit, neither was he
that of my daughter, and I know, and can as conscientiously
affirm this, as I can affirm that my conscious, personal life
is my own life, and that any power of will or intelligence
exercised by me is conceived and resides in my own brain,
and not in that of another. I know I am expressing myself
in a very obscure and unsatisfactory manner, but—
Was kein Verstand der Verstdndige siekt,
Das zibet in Einfalt em kindlich Gemuth.
This quotation, by the way, is not altogether appropriate
here, but, no matter, it will do to express what I mean.
One evening, in the winter of the year 1876,1 was sitting
in a very miserable—I may say half heart-broken—state of
MARCH 16th, 1878.
| mind, working by the fire. What I felt to be a great injus-
| tice had been done me. I had been misunderstood, and my
actions had been maliciously misrepresented. It is true there
was a consciousness of my own integrity and a trust in a
Higher Power to support me, nevertheless life seemed like a
dark labyrinth in which I was wandering about most
dejectedly—in a word, nothing was to be discerned clearly
save my own unhappiness. My daughter was practising at
the piano, and though I was at first too occupied by my own
reflections to notice what she was doing, yet the noise at last
began to jar on my nerves, and I asked her to give up
practising, and try to let us have a seance quite to ourselves.
With evident and unmistakeable reluctance she drew a chair
towards the table by my side; and glad to have secured her
compliance on any terms, I rose hastily, and placed before
her a piece of paper and a pencil, taken from a side table in
the same room. To the best of my recollection, not one word
passed with reference to the reflections that had been occu¬
pying my mind for the previous hour or two. Almost
instantly that she took up the pencil, a sofa was sketched out
on the paper before her. She has never either learnt drawing
or shown any desire to draw. “ What can that mean ?” I
thought. “ Are we to look on the sofa for anything ?” was
my inquiry. There were three loud raps, which signified to
me a reply in the affirmative. My daughter rose and went
towards the sofa. She moved it from the wall, she took up
the cushions and antimacassars, and examined carefully the
seat and the ground below, but all was as usual, and we
both thought £< Peter ” was playing us some trick.
Miss Showers said as much, as she returned to her
seat, the raps accompanying her all the time, and becoming
louder and more imperative as she sat down. Upon this I
rose, and walked to the sofa, which was hardly four feet
from where I was sitting. I looked at it carefully, and even
raised it to examine the seat underneath. In vain—nothing
was to be seen there, and I was giving up the search when
it occurred to me, why or wherefore I cannot say, to put my
hand down in the narrow space between the back and the
seat. To my astonishment, my fingers touched some paper,
and I drew out a crumpled sheet of foolscap, on which were
the following lines :—
Our realm is one of purity,
’Tis spirit land ;
No woe and no obscurity
In our fair band.
’Twill last into futurity,
Aye, ever stand;
Come, friend, and have thy name enrolled,
For spirit land.
May be thou’lt find thy cross here
Hard to carry j
But onward, ever onward,
Do not tarry.
For One alone will bless
And help the humble,
And guide the weary footsteps
Lest they stumble.
And then, when death arrives
To call thee home,
Though closed within the precincts
Of the tomb,
A light will break with radiance
Through the gloom,
’Twill be thy Lord
To wake thee from thy swoon.
Now courage, courage, friend.
Yet still a little longer
Put faith in Him,
And He will make thee stronger.
But wickedness feeds
On its own heart’s core,
Consumes the soul,
| And then it is no more,
March 15, 1878.
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Day after day, I have pondered and puzzled over the
meaning- of some of these lines, and have written and re¬
peated them to Mr. Walhouse, Mr., St. George Stock, and
many others, narrating, at the same time, the remarkable
circumstances under which they were given. I may as well
observe here, that, as something very different from a high
poetical effusion is intended, there is no necessity to criticise
the above composition with reference to its literary merits,
though there may be nothing to say against it, even on that
score. What spirits mean to give us, is proof of a life after
death : and of an invisible existence. The noble literature
of our own and other countries furnishes us abundantly with
“ teachings ” in the priceless records that have been pre¬
served, and the heroic deeds that have been immortalised.
The handwriting strongly resembled that of my daughter.
103, S#ymour-place, Bryanston-square, London.
“ISIS UNVEILED,” AND THE TODAS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.’’
Sir,—Allow me to add a few words to the observations of
“ H. M.” on the account of the Todas, extracted from
Madame Blavatsky’s Isis Unveiled, in the last number of The
Spiritualist. I was for fifteen years in the district to which
the JSTilgiri Hills belong, and am well acquainted with those
hills throughout their length and breadth, and with the
habits of the various tribes inhabiting them. I have known
numbers of the Todas, and am familiar with their villages,
habits, ceremonies, and, belfef. Let me say that with
regard to the communication from the very holy personage
who commands Madame Blavatsky’s great respect, every
statement in the first paragraph is absolutely and directly
contrary to fact. In the second paragraph .the statements
about the Todas not being born of Toda mothers, but being
the children of a select sect, set apart for special religious
purposes, and having places of worship unknown to Europeans
rivalling splendid pagodas—(the “ Brahmanam-guru ” does
not seem to know that a goparam is the tower of a pagoda)
—are ludicrous nonsense. And this I must assert, notwith¬
standing the warning against disbelieving those statements
which Madame Blavatsky has been rash enough to insert in
the closing lines of the extract under review.
Such an endorsement of such statements naturally leads
to distrust of the volumes which contain it, and it must be
said that to an old Indian, there is much in them that
seconds Mrs. Showers’ doubt whether Madame Blavatsky
has ever resided in India at all! It is especially dangerous
to meddle with the Todas; during the last twenty years
much has been written about them by persons who knew
them well. Any who like, for example, may compare
Colonel Marshall’s A Phrenologist Amongst the Todas,
published by Longmans, two or three years ago, with the
account of the “ Brahmanam-guru ! ” The honorary member
of the British National Association of Spiritualists, Captain
R. F. Burton, might also have a good deal to say about the
Todas, since he published his work on the Blue Mountains
more than thirty years since. All good spirits of whatever
degree, astral or elementary, vov<$ or ruach, prevent his ever
meeting with Isis—rough might be the unveiling !
Late Madras, C.S.
Loudon, March 12,1878.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—I am thankful that the subject of Madame Bla¬
vatsky’s reference to the Todas has been ventilated, though
the critic of her work has not been able to cite any other
authority than the Cornhill Magazine for last January in
support of his statements.
It is possible (though I can hardly credit it) that readers
may exist who may imagine that Madame Blavatsky’s state¬
ment may not be easily corroborated. To such I commend
in the first place Lieutenant-Colonel William E. Marshall’s
work, entitled A Phrenologist Among the Todas. (8vo.
London, 1873). This contains his study of a primitive
tribe in South India; its history, character, customs,
religion, infanticide, polyandry, and language, and is illus¬
trated with a very large series of plates by the autotype
process. As the work probably gives a more minute de¬
scription of the eight Dravidian races than any other, its
[information being partly derived from facts supplied by
the only European able to speak the obscure Toda tongue,”
the Rev. Friedrich Metz, of the Basle Missionary Society, I
respectfully request your readers to peruse it before they
accept u H. M.’s” statements as necessarily precise. I may
further cite: Shortt, John, M.D. Tribes on the Neil-
gherries. Privately printed. 8vo. Madras, S.A.; Ouchter-
lony, Captain J., Madras Engineers. Statistical Report of
the Nilgherry Hills. 1847; Pope, Rev. G. M., D.D.
i Brief Outline of the Grammar of the Tuda {sic) Language:
\ 8vo. London, 1873. [Bound up with Marshall’s book, but
J separate copies existing/]
And if it were worth while to collect a bibliography of
i writers on the Toda race, I could do so. But most men
j would refrain from entering into a field where Dr. Shortt
J; and Lieutenant-Colonel Marshall have been before them.
I carefully abstain from criticising the singular points of
detail in which <e H. M.” differs from the voluminous authors
I have cited, as I do not wish to notice anonymous writers.
If the subject appears to be divided into two separate camps,
I Madame Blavatsky, the sun (as shown by the autotypes)
I and the current authorities being on one side, and “ H. M.”
•j on the other, anthropologists may be able to draw their own
(conclusions as to the accuracy of statements which appear
to be corroborated by those persons who are qualified to
give evidence to scientific men as to points of Indian
anthropology.
On a more particularly zoological subject I may note that
Dr. Joseph Fayrer’s work, The Thanatophidia of India;
being a Description of the Venomous Snakes of the Indian
Peninsula, folio, Lond., 1872; and Dr. Albrecht Gurther’s
Reptiles of British India, 8vo, Lond., 1864 (Ray Society’s
publication), will tell inquirers whether a traveller in the
Nilgherry hills, if he had eyes, would have seen more than
“two kinds of snakes, and neither of them poisonous.”
1“ No snakes in Virginny ” used to be an American proposi¬
tion, equivalent to the assertion of an imaginative state¬
ment. “ Few poisonous snakes in the Nilgherries,” is
even stronger still. 0. Carter Blake.
London, March 12th, 1878.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
INQUIBEBS’ SBANCE.
A seance was held at the rooms of the Association, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, on Wednesday, 20th February, with Mr.
Eglinton as medium. The cabinet was inspected, and the doors of
the stance-room locked. Two of the visitors, strangers who had not
attended a seance before, asked permission and were allowed to secure
the medium in any manner they might choose. Mr. Eglinton’s coat
was sewn across the chest and his sleeves sewn together at the wrists
behind, in addition to which tapes were tied tightly round the wrists,
and each wrist secured thereby to the back of the chair, so that re¬
lease of the medium’s hands without untying or breaking away the
tapes and the sewing was admitted by those present to be ordinarily
impossible. Immediately after the curtains were drawn the mani¬
festations commenced; a hand was seen in front of the medium,
messages were written on paper placed upon the “ Oxford chimes ” on
the medium’s knees; and the “ Oxford chimes ” were taken inside the
cabinet and played upon. “ Joey’s ” well-known voice was addressed
to nearly every one in the circle, and in particular to the two gentle¬
men who had secured the medium, requesting them, towards the end
- of the seance, to come close up to the cabinet, so that when they again
1 saw the hand appear they might rush inside the cabinet as quickly as
possible, and, with a light, examine the fastenings of the medium’s
hands and wrists. The two gentlemen availed themselves of the
challenge, and found the medium’s hands and the fastenings just as
they had secured them. At the conclusion of the seance, a unanimous
vote was given approving the conditions and satisfactory nature of the
seance, T. H. Edmands,
Member of the Stance Committee, in charge.
Women’s Freedom.—The recent articles in this journal on this subject
have brought us much information by correspondence, and some by callers at
the office, all of whom have given thanks for the raising of the question in
the public mind. The details of two cases have been fumished us, of a mother
forcing a daughter to sell herself for a title, and in both cases the sale
resulted in a living grave; in one case the misery was of thirty years’ duration.
Novehsts and playwrights, who are numerous among the readers of The
Spiritualist, can best combat these evils, by holding up match-making trades¬
women to public observation. This is being well done at the Court Theatre,
where a woman is truthfully represented as inducing her own daughter to sell
herself bodily in the matrimonial market, first in this way and then in that
way, as best serves her material interests, until the heroine—notwithstanding
all Miss Ellen Terry’s splendid acting—becomes so time-serving from the low
ideals of the authors, one of whom we regret and are surprised to have to
state to be Tom Taylor, that observers possessing any moral or spiritual
sense, cease to take any interest in her welfare.
March 15, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
123
A RETROSPECTIVE VIEW OF SPIRITUALISM IN 1877.* 11 j
BT AtEXAXDER CALDER, PRESIDENT OP THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF J j
SPIRITUALISTS, |||
Retrospection by a skilful hand would prove profitable I j |
work; a kind of stocktaking, where the salient points are J j
recognised and examined, imperfections noted, and future i! i
direction marked off. In the performance of such a task, j j j
I ask your kind indulgence.
“ PASSED TO THE HIGHER LIFE.” i I j
And first let us offer an affectionate tribute to the memory I! |
of those departed beyond our view during the past twelve J ;
months. Mr. James Wason, President of the Liverpool i
Psychological Society, and Registrar of the Birkenhead i,
County Court; Dr. Dupuis, editor of the Gallileen; the well- ! ]'
known Robert Dale Owen; William Davenport; Andrew j j
Leighton, of Liverpool; General Don Bassol y Maranoso, I I
President of the Spiritual Association at Madrid, and Mrs. |.|
Hardy, of the United States. These are now— K
“ Where the •wicked cease from troubling.” i
DR. SLADE’S CAREER ON THE CONTINENT. i
Of wickedness and trouble we have, unfortunately, some- j ,
thing to relate, for early in the year Slade was driven from |
England, carrying with him our warmest sympathy. Honest,
and innocent of all deceit, we regard him as the victim of an
unruly and senseless persecution; and we naturally follow,
with considerable interest, the history of his career. There is j!;
something noble in the behaviour of one who, having been j ]
pronounced an impostor by a race speaking his own tonguo, I
is not afraid, but, on the contrary, cheerfully commits his |
liberty to the care of utter strangers to that tongue. Instead |'
of returning to his own country, the United States, he pre- |
ferred, in spite of all he has suffered at the hands of j
prejudice, to cast his lot among people on whose considera- j J
tion he had not the least claim. What sublime assurance 11
to challenge a verdict on his medial powers by people I!
wholly unknown to him in manners and language, and on i ]
whose bare civility he could scarcely reckon. What feeling j (
but that of conscious integrity could sustain such a man j Ji
under this most novel ordeal. Yet Slade went, first among j ]
the French, then to the Hollanders, next to the Danes, and U
after that he lived with the Germans; and now he is at St.
Petersburg among Russians. A whole year has been spent | j
among these several peoples; and what are the results ? J
Everywhere great interest has been excited by the plieno- 11
mena manifesting themselves in his presence; everywhere
the power exhibited is held in respectful attention, and even I
admiration. In Germany, perhaps more than elsewhere, 11
has it drawn on him the largest share of regard. At Berlin j ]
he created a profound sensation, and his departure thence I ;
witnessed several of its wise men meditating over the fea- 11
tures of the phenomena. The instructive remarks of a 11
reviewer in that famous city of intelligent sceptics may be 11
quoted with advantage. He says (after five_most satisfac- j | |
tory seances)—“ It devolves on our scientific authorities to
examine into the truths of Spiritualism. On them is it incum¬
bent, while so phenomenal a specimen of humanity dwells
among us, to probe the subject to the bottom, and decide
whether it is a mere swindle, or whether we are on the verge i
of discovering some hitherto mysterious force which may be I !
utilised for the benefit of mankind.” The Court Conjurer j
of the Emperor of Germany has also taken the field of criti- I j
cism and enquiry; and certifies, avowedly for the love of
truth (a love which happily dwells in the minds of some j | I
conjurers), that the phenomenal occurrences with Mr. Slade j (j
have been thoroughly examined by him with the minutest IJ j
observation, and investigation of the surroundings, includ- j , j
ing the table; and .he declares that he has not in the j! J
smallest instance found anything to be produced by means of j j
prestidigitative manifestations or by mechanical apparatus, j
More than all 'others, and far superior, is the testimony of In
the Professor of Astronomy at the University of Leipzig, j |
Mr. Zollner, an ardent experimentalist at Slade’s seances, j I
and a man recognised by scientific men in this country, as M
a great authority on stellar physics. This gentleman has j | j
recorded some most interesting phenomena in certain of his j j
scientific treatises published this year in that city. The I j
* An address delivered at a soiree of the British National Association of Spiritualists, i } j
held at 38, Great Kussell-street, London, on Wednesday, March 13th, 1878. { } I
theory of the passage of matter through matter has received
at his hands a considerable advance towards solution, and
has been performed in a manner which may, it is boldly
hoped, commend itself to the notice of our scientific assail¬
ants. Briefly stated the problem stands thus. On a string,
the two ends of which were sealed and held by Mr. Zollner,
while the remaining portion rested on his knees, four knots
appeared in the space of a few minutes. How did these
knots come where previously there had been none? It
being quite impossible to form such knots unless the two
ends of the string are perfectly free, how were they formed,
if not by a process wholly unknown to us of the manipula¬
tion of matter ? One can understand a quantity of rags or
other raw material thrown into the manufacturer’s vat com¬
ing out as paper; but such a process requires time and the
employment of various agents. But in the former instance
the transformation was effected in a few minutes with ap¬
parently no external aid. Professor Zollner explains this
on a theory of the possibility of four dimensions in space,
instead of three—a theory now much canvassed by mathe¬
maticians.
We behold then this strange spectacle—Slade resolutely
challenging experts, men of science, conjurers, and others,
to the strictest examination of most singular phenomena,
occurring on their own ground, and in their own houses, far
from his own country, in lands where he can count on little
sympathy ; in despotic countries where he might readily be
cast into prison. This of itself, apart from other considera¬
tions, is a marvellous fact: and to any ordinary understand¬
ing furnishes a strong sign of good faith and innocence.
But it may here be advanced well, what is the use of all
this slate-writing even if true ? Asa trifle sometimes shows
which way the wind is blowing, so a little incident related
not very long since by Mr. Epes Sargent may be offered in
reply. A gentleman once called on Mr. Charles Watkins,
the well-known writing medium of the United States, and
asked for a stance. They were perfect strangers to each
other. After a little while this famous medium proceeded
to open a paper pellet on which he had written the name of
his unknown visitor’s father. Now mark the effect. “ The
visitor turned pale, covered his face in his hands, and wept
like a child. The atheism and unbelief of years were shivered
as by a lightning stroke.” This is one of a thousand illus¬
trations which may be adduced of the influence which
Spiritualism works on life and conduct.
THE LITERATURE OF SPIRITUALISM AND ANTI-SPIRITUALISM.
It is owing to such solid foundation of fact for good that
produces the mental energy we see displayed in many direc¬
tions, for during the year we have a work from Mr. Riko 5
Isis Unveiled, from Madame Blavatsky; The Soul and Ho w it
Found Me, from Mr. Maitland ; Serious Letters to Serious
Friends, from the Countess of Caithness; Mr. Barkas’s
Researches; Mr. S. C. Hall’s Words of Warning; Rifts in
the Veil, by Mr. Harrison; and Spirit and Soul, by Mr.
George Harris; while tremendous activity has been kept up
all along the line by M.A., Oxon,* Mr. C. C. Massey, Dr.
Wyld, Mr. E. Sargent, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. D. Fitzgerald,
Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan, Mr. Peary Chand Mittra, Captain
James, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. Peterson, and others. In
connection with literature, regret will be felt by some at the
disappearance this year of perhaps the oldest of our publica¬
tions, the Spiritual Magazine. Attacked by a mortal
malady, it lingered on for some months, becoming gradually
more and more etherealised, until at length it vanished out
of sight altogether. And we cannot here well omit Mr.
Home’s contribution. It may be said, sans malice, of this
once great medium, that, having been out of work for a long
season, he seems to have joined our new, though undesirable,
acquaintances, the elementaries; and has taken active service
under that old and well-known employer of idle hands. But
while the idiosyncrasy of Mr. Home is well understood and
accounted for, what shall we say concerning the persistent
assaults of that ancient foe to Spiritualism, Dr. Carpenter.
Afraid of losing his laurels in the field of mental philosophy,
he has been unusually busy during the year, plunging wildly,
again and again, into the very vortex of the strife. Pierced
through and through by the lances of several knights, hotly
pursued, flung down, and trampled on, he has been left on.
124 THE SPIRITUALIST. ; Maech 15, 1878.
the field signally wounded. Will he rise again to the com- |
bat ? Has he good grounds for all his rash and venturesome j
proceedings ? Is he not impeding the march in the discovery j
of nature’s truths ? Are her secrets not worth unravelling? j
May not his opponents be right after all ? A wise man |
would ponder well on all these things. The real man of j
science cares little for victqry, and much for truth; and the j
best victory for Dr. Carpenter, if he can accomplish it,
would be the triumph over himself. As is said of a good |
many other feeble folk, he seems to suffer from monomania, j
However this be, he certainly owes the Spiritualists of this i
country, and of the United States, some amends for all his I
remarkable statements. Will he have the courage and the j
patience to make full enquiry? Will he not, in reason,
admit that every champion of materialism is bound in
honour to know something of Spiritualism before he publicly
undertakes the office of tormentor of Spiritualists ? Either
he cannot be the robust man of science, who resolutely
follows truth, or he resembles in this particular his medical
contemporary, who obtained a sudden, unenviable, and
and short-lived notoriety, by his astounding assertions as to
the insanity of Spiritualists. It will be remembered that
Dr. Forbes Winslow had publicly stated u this form of delu¬
sion (meaning Spiritualism) is very prevalent in the
United States, and the asylums contain many of its
victims; nearly ten thousand persons having gone insane
on the subject are confined in the public asylums of
the United States.” Pandering to popular prejudice
he did not hesitate to throw out, with all the recklessness of
a madman, a statement exaggerated more than a hundred¬
fold; and which, however distant from the truth, was
caught at most greedily by the newspapers and made the i
most of. But what are the facts on this very important
point ? Early last year we had the gratification of receiving
from Dr. Eugene Crowell, of the United States, a full and
exhaustive account of the question. The gratitude of
Spiritualists is due to this good friend for his exertions in
collecting and marshalling the facts which have so signally
overthrown Dr. Winslow. The whole number of insane
patients of all classes and denominations, Non-Spiritualists
and Spiritualists, inhabiting 87 asylums in the year 1876,
was under 30,000, and of these there were only 7 6 Spiritual¬
ists : less than one to each asylum. What a crushing de¬
feat for poor Doctor Winslow. A further circumstance
deeply interesting to society, ascertained by Dr. Crowell, is
that insanity from both religious excitement and Spiritual¬
ism, was diminishing, from the fact that under the influence
of Spiritualism, more correct and consequently less irrational |
and revolting ideas were being disseminated concerning the
doctrine of future punishment, its nature and extent. I do
not know whether Dr. Winslow has in any manner apologised
for his perverse display. I venture, at all events, to remark !
it may not after all be surprising that the keeper of an [
asylum for lunatics should himself occasionally appear to |
have his wits paralysed by hallucination; and therefore it j
would only be fair to attribute the escapade, however wanton j
and malignant, to the influence exercised on his mind by j
the unfortunates under his charge.
i
MR. W. E. GLADSTONE, M.P., ON SPIRITUALISM AND CHRISTIANITY.
Turning from this guardian of intellectual dwarfs, let us !
pass on to notice the attitude towards Spiritualism of a most
renowned leader of men; one of the highest types of j
humanity. In May last the Right Honourable W. E. Gladstone
placed on record one of the most impartial and unbiassed
opinions ever uttered by an outsider; and from which I
extract the following words : “ I know of no rule which for- j
bids a Christian to examine into the signs of preternatural j
agency in the system called Spiritualism.... If the !
reviews and facts of the day have in any way shaken the
standing ground of a Christian, is it not his first and most |
obvious duty to make an humble but searching scrutiny of j
the foundations ? I speak as one who is deeply convinced
that they will bear it, and that God has yet many a fair j!
plant to rear in this portion of His garden.” Such are some J
of the thoughts of the greatest of living orators and states- h
men. Never did he act with more magnanimity than when j j
he penned these few words to a Liverpool journal. The most j
popular man in England to speak thus of the most unpopular ‘
j| of systems marks him as the noblest of men, for his mmd un-
| ] dazed by the height on which he stands, is in harmony with
51 nature whose sacred interests he is ever ready to uphold when-
I ever challenged or assailed: ever furnishing a bright example
j of wisdom and fortitude in a world distinguished for evasion,
|| trimming, and petty manoeuvres. The ex-premier un-
| doubtedly felt that there was sound reason for examining
M thejfoundations on which our religion was built, if that could
M be done. Like a wise builder he would, if possible, in this
[ 1 most sceptical age have a survey of the ground on which the
| ! edifice of belief rests, and he evidently perceived in the
ft philosophy of Spiritualism, a path capable of affording a,
! j sufficient solution to so deeply interesting a problem. And
I he is abundantly justified. For what after all is Spiritualism ?
What if not primitive Christianity made positive to our
i apprehensions; brought with certainty to our homes; pre¬
sented with startling force to our, alas ! too dull and obtuse
senses. And all this not by miracle working the super¬
natural, but by plain revelations of nature. That some
material elements issue out of the side of a medium, assume
a form and become a visible and walking entity ; capable of
eating, talking, and writing ; that this entity after a while
disappears by being absorbed into the medium’s body is
most astounding. Such a transaction would make the idea
of the resurrection of Jesus cease to be inconceivable; and
the most critical mind might fairly accept it as an interpre¬
tation of the truth. The chief item of the Christian creed
would no longer be denounced as a gross fiction by writers
of speculative treatises however ingenious. The accounts of
Messrs. Blackburn, Colley, and Stainton-Moses, added to
those of Mr. Crookes and others, throw immense light on
this stupendous subject; and there is reason to hope that we
I shall in time fully understand that there is no supernatural
interference with the reign of law; that nothing in this is
opposed to nature, but all in harmony thereto. The day is
perhaps nigh, when it will be evident that a ton of speculation
of the most cunning theorist is of less value than an ounce of
the Spiritualist’s facts. Now, if all this be true, why should
Christians shrink from Spiritualism which is identical with
that which is professed and taught by the Church ? Why do
they not act in accordance with their profession ? Are they
alarmed because they never knew the truth with power ? Is
it that, while they deal in words, the Spiritualist deals in
things ? While they follow the shadow, he grasps the
substance. This has made him familiar with some of the
great truths relating to humanity. Yerily and truly, instead
; of the fast vanishing hopes of some, and the annihilation
schemes of others, the Spiritualists have good cause for con¬
gratulation, for the firmness of the ground under them is
real. Of life beyond the present we continue to gather ideas
from a variety of sources, and have abundance of evidence in
the materialisations in London, Newcastle, Paris, and else¬
where. These manifestations become more and more remark¬
able. The abolition of the use of cabinets has greatly improved
these highly interesting phenomena, and more important
results are obtained. It seems, however, a pity there should
be any necessity for exclusiveness in these seances, and that
j the example of Slade in inviting all to a thorough investiga-
} tion is not, or cannot, be universally adopted. Less stringent
i rules, I venture to think, might with safety be made, and
i more attractive methods employed than now obtain; and
j thus all appearance of mystery would cease, for wherever
i there is the least evidence of such design it creates suspicion.
[ To the informed in these matters all this is, of course,
11 unreasonable; but we have a world to convince and conquer,
j In support of this view, I would here quote the closing
i words of an instructive paper, read last November by Mr.
I Stainton Moses, in this room, on Form [Manifestations—
** The thing itself is there, but by what method it has been
| formed, what its source and object, whether it is an animated
| s tatue, or a spiritual being entrusted with molecules of matter ?
| Whether, if so, it be of our race or not, and, most important
1 of all, what is the power that lies behind it? What the
formative intelligence that can create and destroy in this
j wise ? These are questions which remain for solution, and
| which will be solved, not by wild guesses or enthusiastic
| specution, but by sober, patient, and protracted investiga¬
tion.” Wise language, in which, I am sure, all will heartily
i concur.
March 15, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST.
125
PHYSIC FORCE, <£ EVERITTISM,” AND OCCULTISM.
Of occult power we were furnished in the most striking
evidence, last May, of very simple character, demonstrating
the existence of an unknown force, and perhaps no better or
more ready test of its presence could have been desired or
exhibited to satisfy the most captious appetite. I refer to
those singular displays called Everittism, in which the
learned Serjeant Cox took considerable interest. Furnished
with hand-cuffs borrowed from Clerkenwell prison, of a
special make, and which had served to secure hundreds of
criminals so well that it was even said the devil himself
could not make his escape if once locked in them. Well,
these extra perfect implements were fastened by being duly
locked on Mr. Everitt’s hands. But all to no purpose. It
was soon found impossible to hold him, for, in a few minutes,
he became released from the fetters, and was wholly free.
It was now surmised, with charming simplicity, that Mr.
Everitt's hands might be unusually small, and they might
therefore be rapidly withdrawn from the handcuffs. In order
to satisfy such a profound observation, the hand-cuffs were
next fastened to the round of a chair and securely locked.
In five minutes they were, by the invisible power,
taken off the chair and placed on Mr. Everitt’s wrists;
and while in this position, his coat was removed
off his back by the same agency in sixteen seconds.
Several other astonishing feats were performed equally
perplexing in character, and furnishing, at least to
the candid observer, ample food of a nature to show that
there is something on earth beyond the scope of his philo¬
sophy. When people so glibly talk of Spiritualism as
a superstition they ought, at least, to stand so high
on wisdom’s tower as to be able readily to explain the
modus operandi of such palpable and unvarnished marvels as
these; and when men of science refer to the uniformity of
nature, they should not stumble at so slight and simple an
eccentricity as that called Everittism. Can they explain it ?
No. Then surely they make the too large assumption of
possessing the facts relating to nature. It is an ordinary
remark that when critics surrender their preconceived
imaginings, and seek after facts their verdict opt them when
discovered resembles ours. They find the disposition of
nature something very different to their prefiguring. They
see she does not regulate her ways to please them; but
marches onward in a pathway of her own. It is observable
of most people before they are the least informed in the
knowledge of Spiritualism, they fancy they know all about
it. Content to enjoy a fool’s paradise, they live in sublime
delusion. And yet the whole matter is purely one of ob¬
servation and study. “ The light shineth in the darkness,
and the darkness comprehendeth it not.” But as fast as
men and women witness the phenomena they range them¬
selves in our ranks, becoming staunch allies and supporters.
The world may call them idiots : all they know is they are
constrained to yield to powerful influences which they feel
to be real; and as to the very gratuitous compliment paid
them they remember that St. Paul, recounting his spiritual
experience to King Agrippa, was told he was mad. He did
not mind it a bit, but went earnestly about his business,
leaving an example for all time.
There is a vast amount of confusion in the public mind
respecting Spiritualism; nor is this surprising, for if it is
difficult to form a sound decision on the smallest thing,
without the possession of the facts concerning it, how great
is the difficulty of determining the nature of so occult a
study as Spiritualism, and yet there are people—the world
is pretty full of them—who with utmost complacency, and
with the lightest of heart possible, venture to jeer at it all
as imposture. They prate about what in all probability is
either too distasteful to their materialist turn of mind, or
too profound for their understanding. They fling their
taunts at it with about the same amount of prudence as a
savage would exhibit hurling his arrows at the sides of an
armour-clad.
Men of science may say what they please; but until they
can satisfactorily dispose of the positive testimony on these
weighty matters of such men as Wallace, Crookes, Yarley,
Cox (the latter not a Spiritualist) in this country ; Pertie in
Berlin, the astronomer Flammarion in Paris, Aksakof and
Butlerof in St. Petersburg, to say nothing of a host of
others in the United States and elsewhere who affirm that
the phenomena in question are real, and proceed from some
unseen intelligence, they should either hold their peace, or
enter seriously on the work of its investigation; for it
requires no great sagacity to conclude that arguments based
on the life-long actual observations of such men as these
named are far more trustworthy than all crude and fanciful
theories wherever originated and upheld. A little knowledge
on this momentous subject not only misleads but furnishes
self-prepared inglorious pitfalls. Besides, there is such a
thing as a betrayal of truth. A man of science truly
worthy of the name tells not only the truth about a well-
known thing, but the whole truth, and this is not what our
adversaries do or have done. Nor is a contemptuous attitude
scarcely becoming men of science in relation to phenomena
of the highest character regarding humanity. It is as true
now as it was in the time of Solomon, The scorner seeketh
wisdom, and findeth it not.” Unless their intrepidity is
sufficiently cooled to deny themselves the luxury of fresh
attacks on Spiritualism they might wisely abandon their
ambitious dream for its destruction, and store up all their
intellectual energies lest they some day feel exhausted by
their assaults, and, breaking down, have to halt in their too
exalting pursuit after atoms, germs, and infusoria.
FRIENDLY UNION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
And now, a word in conclusion concerning our association.
During the past three years we have laid the foundation of
a noble work. We possess a valuable library of books, and
handsome, well-furnished rooms. Where was disorder and
chaos in the Spiritual field, we have established, in spite of
the persistent disintegrating efforts of some, a well-organised
central association, capable of great expansion and develop¬
ment. The various lectures from time to time, and the weekly
seances for inquirers which are held at these rooms, become
more and more useful and instructive, and constantly make
fresh converts. Slowly, but surely, we go forward, recording
the discovery of items of scientific truth. Our officers are
annually elected by the body of members, and our funds
are administered by responsible individuals: our accounts
are audited by auditors especially appointed in general
meeting for that work. We are aware that much improve¬
ment may be effected in more ways than one. Bearing all
this in mind, and looking at the advantageous position we
have reached in a short space, and being free from debt, we
have some good grounds of appealing with confidence for
the support of the entire body of Spiritualists. Unselfish
and eminently constructive in its character, capable of much
good, it should commend itself to the thoughtful considera¬
tion of all.
In presence of the fast-rising tide of Atheism, swelled
enormously by the aid of scientific Materialists, it behoves
Spiritualists to understand more clearly their moral respon¬
sibilities, and unite all the more seriously in widening the
bases of an organisation which, besides other most excellent
purposes, is a useful rallying-point, and a permanent pro¬
test. Who that knows anything of Spiritualism can doubt
that it raises the value of life immensely, by the offer of
new and invaluable impressions. It lifts us above the things
of sense, and places us in the clear realms of a higher enjoy¬
ment. It alters the whole aspect of existence. It affords a
better knowledge of human nature, it animates with a
higher purpose by a clearer insight into the future. It
reveals, through actual experiment, facts hitherto unknown
in respect to ourselves. It proves life to be a stern
reality, and every step of its journey is shown to be full of
meaning. The student of physical science, standing in the
darkness of spiritual inexperience, can scarcely be expected
to appreciate, much less to recognise, the dignity of Spirit¬
ualism. But all true Spiritualists will persevere again and
again in the promotion of their great aim. They will steadily
press Nature for the discovery of her secrets. I am more
than ever convinced of the sterling worth of Spiritualism,
rightly understood, as an important factor to influence life
and conduct—a remedy well calculated to stem the torrent
of recklessness, imbecility, and crime. Founded on the
instincts and affections, it is no artificial creation, but has
an everlasting source. It is destined to emancipate the
world from Materialism and other forms of corruption ; and
126
tfiiE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 187S.
as its chief and noblest work is to deepen the religious senti¬
ment by imparting true knowledge of the soul and spirit, it
should possess the sympathy of all good men.
EVIDENCE OF THE PERSONAL IDENTITY OF CERTAIN
COMMUNICATING- SPIRITS.
BY THE BARONESS ADELMA VON VAX (COUNTESS WURMBRAND.)
The identity of spirits and of their spirit-messages is con¬
firmed by a great number of mediums and Spiritualists.
I was one day writing automatically, under the influence
of my guides, when I suddenly felt my arm impelled by a
strange and unknown power, and the following was written
in large letters:—“ I am here, Joseph Schmied." As I had
never known any one of that name, and many people called
Schmied'die in a day, I suspected that I was being imposed
upon, and asked, “What Schmied?” Jacob Schmied,
died to-day, in Vienna, Bernals, of disease of the throat;
help me. The day after to-morrow you will see my death in
the newspaper.” I awaited with impatience the day men¬
tioned, and on looking over the list of deaths in that day’s
paper I found—“ Died, from disease of the throat, ’in
Vienna, Hernals, Jacob Schmied.” The date of his death
was also the same as that of the day on which I received his
message. Now, if this was not indeed the spirit of Jacob
Schmied, I do not know how all this could have entered
into my brain.
I was once in correspondence with a lady, C E ,
for the purpose of curing her of a nervous affection. I had
had no previous acquaintance with her, either personally or
otherwise, and she was living in Bavaria at the time. My
guides wrote to me:—y Deliver C E from the in¬
fluence of her uncle, Ferdinand E . He was a bad man,
and now, as a spirit, hovers around his family; his presence
brings on these nervous attacks in the sensitive C .” I
wrote to the father of the lady, asking him if he had a
relative in the spirit-land named Ferdinand, and who had
been rather a bad sort of man. He answered me, greatly
moved, that he had had a brother Ferdinand, who had,
indeed, not behaved well to them. I then received a com¬
munication from the spirit Ferdinand, whose manner of
expression and writing were so very like what they had been
in his earth-life that his brother, who was no Spiritualist,
immediately acknowledged his identity. Now a reconcilia¬
tion is effected between the living and the spirit-brother,
and C E is freed from her nervous attacks. These
people were total strangers to me, and living in Bavaria.
A gentleman, a stranger, wrote to me from Hanover,
that he had been unable to sleep for seven years. He had
dreadful visions, heart disease, a feeling of suffocation, and
he often feared he should go mad. He begged me to give
him deliverance. My guides said:—“ Again it is a very low
and base spirit of the name of Anton Stein. Mr. C , who
writes to you is about sixty years old; he knew this Anton
Stein in his youth. Try to bring this spirit into a better
sphere and Mr. C will be cured.” I wrote this to Mr.
0 . .All was correct. He was nearly sixty years old, had
known two brothers Stein, in Hanover, thirty years ago.
One of the brothers, Anton, was a dissipated youth, and had
disappeared in a mysterious manner.
Doctor M  was on a visit here. First, he obtained
through my mediumship a communication from his father,
which he identified; then came some small writing, half
Italian, half German. A girl signing herself Annetta wrote:—
“ Do you remember having seen me ? I was your old nurse.”
The doctor was greatly moved, and happy to recognise his
old nurse Annetta.
A man suffering from epilepsy wrote to me from Marien-
berg, Saxony. 1 immediately received the following com¬
munication from a spirit, who wrote in large rough characters,
and called himself Theodor:—“ I was a sort of critin, but a
very wicked one. I and the uncle of your patient were brothers,
and as we were walking together in a wood, we quarrelled ; he
became angry, struck me on my head, and I was dead. He
buried me in the wood, and no one ever knew what had become
of me, while he lived quietly and died a respected man. Now,
1 mil slay his nephew.” This communication greatly
shocked me. I wrote to the patient’s father asking him if
he remembered having had a relative, a half idiotic young
!j man, who had suddenly disappeared. He answered—“ Your
i question greatly astonishes me. How can you, a lady in
| Austria, know anything about this poor relative, who, forty
years ago, disappeared from a small town in Saxony, and
was never more heard of ? Some believed he was murdered.
He was seen to go into a wood one day from which he never
returned.” I had the greatest struggles with that spirit,
and then the murderer came, and by thus bringing them
| together they were reconciled.
I could give you hundreds of such examples proving spirit
I identity, and the reality of communications from base and
low spirits, whose pain it is that no annihilation is possible
for them.
Gonobitz, Hungary, March 9,1878.
j SPIRITUALISM AND THEOSOPHY: A LAST WORD.
BY “ M.A. (OXON).”
The proportions which the claims of Theosophists have
now assumed are not such as to need further assault. Mr.
Massey’s contention that any who is “dissatisfied with the
evidence of disembodied human agency has, pro tanto, evi-
| dence of the existence of spirits other and, probably, lower
JI than those of our race as actors in the field of Spiritualism,
| is a very mild statement, and one to which I raise no objec-
11 tion, except that it is in no sense proof, or even presumptive
| evidence on which such claims as Colonel Olcott’s can
I j reasonably be allowed to rest. The platform which he
| erected needs a broader and securer basis; and, had this
j been all that the Theosophists meant, I, for one, should not
11 have troubled to take exception to their statements on this
J ] particular point.
Mr. Massey wishes to know whether I “do or do not
(| hold to the popular creed of Spiritualism—that every physical
j manifestation and spirit-communication is due to the agency
] of a departed human being.” He knows my opinions : no
| man better. I must presume, therefore, that he challenges
J J me to put in print yet again what I have not been slow to
(| maintain at all seasons, in public as well as in private, with
I such clearness as I am master of; so that I should fancy
I that any one who honours my action with a thought could
not possibly mistake my position. I stated that position
briefly and very plainly in a speech after the reading of Dr.
j Wyld’s paper, which preceded this discussion; and I am
j sorry that I cannot refer Mr. Massey to that speech in print.
I If he had heard or read it, he would not have needed to ask
j his question. But, since he appeals to me, and desires
j me to repeat a ten-times-told story, I have no hesitation
! whatever in avowing myself a Spiritualist first and before
| all. I have no mental reservation whatever as to the action
I of departed human spirits. That is to me a fact which I
| know. It has entered into my spiritual life, and I act upon
| the knowledge.
For the rest, I do not know all the agencies at work
j in producing the various phenomena of modem Spirit-
I ualism; but I will claim for myself, now and always,
j the fullest liberty to investigate every phase of spirit-
| action, and I shall not be surprised to find, as the
I result of repeated experiment, and of more extended
| knowledge, that what now exists in my mind as a
! suspicion, strengthened by report, is true — that the
| grades of spirit are infinitely various, and that most or all
| of them impinge upon our world in some one of many ways.
I It would not surprise me to find, as a fact, that much that
| is now propounded as theory has basis in truth, though I do
not expect to live long enough to verify or disprove all the
! theories that the busy brain of man finds time to spin. But,
| if my friends please, I will wait before I promulgate my
| belief in what I know very little about. I do not refuse to
j investigate their theories; quite the reverse. I do not say
they are untrue; I only say they are unproven speculations
! in the main, and that they seem to me to have been rashly
| and rather recklessly accepted and promulgated.
It is one thing to advocate the frankest and fullest inquiry
| into all facts and theories. This I do. It is another and
! very different, thing to accept or advocate hypothetical
! theories without proof, and even in the teeth of facts which
j are not successfully attacked. This I am not prepared
1 to do.
March 15, 187&.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
127
(KoOTsponuence, 1
[Great freedomisgivento correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed i
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; !
copies should be kept by the writers.]
“ ISIS UNVEILED,” AND THEOSOPHT. j (i
Sir,—I, for one, protest against the showers of abuse with which j) i
Madame Blavatsky is deluged iu your last issue. That picture (it j j
might be termed a cut) of a woman scratching the face of woman, of i j
Christian assailing the “ Heathen,” had better have been relegated to j)
some missionary magazine as a representative specimen of the way in (
which the English have so frequently saluted and insulted whilst intent j j
on converting the “ benighted ’ Hindu. My feeling is that such writing j) j
should have had no place in the present discussion, and I fail to | (
recognise the literary qualifications of the writer for giving the lie j)
direct and wholesale to the author of Isis Unveiled. j j |
"When that lady, on entering the arena, uttered her prefatory “ mori- ] (j
turns te salutat” she could little have expected such a libation, which ! j |
falls not only on the grey-headed worker, whose range of reading is (
certainly immense, however deficient she may be in manipulative skill, I j |
but also splashes every one of us who have taken part in the con- | j j
troversy, and makes one rise up to shake one’s self. j j j
Of course, it is fair enough for critics to raise questions concerning j)
matters of fact upon which they themselves are well informed, which I)
is a different matter to going out into the middle of the road and | (j
“swearing at large.” But any one who does so should be careful not j j
to expose themselves. Mrs. Showers’ letter is not unimpeachable on ! n
the score of accuracy. To take but two instances; she remarks that— j (|
“ The statue of Memnon may still utter its wail at sunrise.” “ Might ! j I
your name be Mr. Smith ? ” asked an inquirer of an American. “Well,”
he replied, “ it might, but it isn’t by a long chalk.” So it may be said I j j
of the statue erected by Amenhept III. (the Greek Memnon)—it may j j |
utter its wail at sunrise, but it does not, and is not likely to avail itself I j j
of Mrs. Showers’permission. It was overthrown and shattered by an
earthquake, b.c. 27, and although restored by Severus, the Roman j j
Emperor, about 27 a.d., it never more responded to the rays of sunrise, i j j
either with, or anything very like, a wail.
The second statement is implied in her allusion to the “foul Osiris |) '■
worship of Egypt.” As a student of Egyptology, I challenge proof of j (!
that. The worship of Osiris was as pure as any in this world has ever j) |
been. Egyptian art is spiritually pure. Egyptian literature is pure. |) J
The monuments, the ritual, the volumes of the Records of the Past* are i j j
my witnesses. What are Mrs. Showers’ ? A certain emblem borne in the I j j
procession of the spring festival! Just so. And that meant precisely i
the same thing as our May-pole, and the church spire with the weather- i j j
cock atop. It was the natural hieroglyph of the resurrection. It is i j j
the moderns who read their own foul imaginings into the symbolism i I'
of the past. Nature is not ashamed of her emblems. But I should i (j
judge that Mrs. Showers is entirely ignorant of the origin and significance I) j
of symbolism. (I
Whilst recording my individual protest against this treatment of j j
Madame Blavatsky, allow me, as one who took exception to one of the i) j
points of doctrine held by the Theosophists on the grounds of its origin, j (
to say that I do not think they are receiving fair treatment from our I j |
side. We are forgetting that they are also Spiritualists. I remember m
how frank and manly was Colonel Olcott’s avowal, made to me at a j (l
dinner of the Lotus Club in New York, in the presence of Mr. Brad- ] j j
laugh:—“Aye!”—this followed some other remark—“ and Tm a j (j
Spiritualist of seventeen years' standing," This was not amongst people | \ i
who were Spiritualists.
All that I objected to was the bringing in of misinterpreted mytho- | j j
logy as Spiritualism. This is continually being done with statements j (i
made in the Hebrew writings, which have no relation to our j) |
Spiritualism. j (j
Spiritualists have quite enough to do in fighting for the existence of ! j
one soul, whether here or hereafter, and have no time to lose in bicker- |) |
ing over cut-and-dried doctrines of triplicity or duplicity, or we shall j (
find ourselves as impotently entangled in a net as was the Christian j j i
theology, with its doctrine of a trinity, inherited, but never understood, I)!
through ignorance of its origin.
To class the physiological origin of certain myths with Spiritualism j i
is to damn it, and we cannot be too solicitous of their being left alone j i
until further explained. The first feeling of the Spiritualist is to ! j
clutch the evidence for our facts to be found in the past, and the likeli- 11 j
hood is that we claim all sorts of stray property that does not belong j j!
to us. 111
Because we know that man emerges beyond the tomb, we cannot j | j
be saddled with the unscientific and non-spiritual resurrection i j 1
of the body. The natural genesis of that belongs to the annual resur- I I
rection of the sun, and the embalming of the mummy, with which i j,i
Spiritualism is not concerned.
Because spirits are asserted to walk and talk with man to-day, it does i j i
not, therefore, follow that the mythical representation of the supposed j j j
Creator of this universe taking shape, and walking and talking with |
Adam, is a spiritual truth or a fact in nature. It can be proved other- ; i i
wise. Mark this, Spiritualism has no interest in violating natural law.
Science can accept nothing that is in violation of the laws of nature, and I j |
mythology, when read, will be found sticking as closely to the natural i |
law as the limpet to the rock. But to read those symbols as actual j j j
facts and direct occurrences, implies all sorts of violation of natural law, i | i
and myth becomes miracle. The miracles of the Hebrews can be shown j j
to be Egyptian myths! Because spiritual communication be a fact j j i
within the sphere of natural law, the immaculate conception is not, j | i
therefore, a fact. And its mythical, in this instance, solar origin and i) |
meaning, is provable. The only virgin mother who ever bore a child j j ]
without a natural father belongs to the solar allegory. It was not only
an Egyptian myth, applying to Ta-urt, Hathor, Neith, Isis, in four
different dynasties of deities, but it was also applied to an Egyptian
Queen, as the representative of the divine virgin mother. The fable
was necessited in consequence of the Pharaohs, their consorts and sons,
the Repas, Princes, heirs-apparent being made to personate the solar
trinity. And amongst the sculptures of Luxor in the temple, chiefly
built by Amenhept III. (Memnon), the immaculate conception and birth
of the miraculous child is pourtrayed in a series of scenes. Tii, the wife
of Amenhept, is depicted with her son Rhuen-Aten being incarnated.
The scenes pictured are those of the annunciation, the con¬
ception, the birth and adoration of the Saviour child, Son of
the Sun. In the first scene, Thoth the Logos—word, male mes¬
senger of the gods—announces the coming birth to the mother.
In the second, Kneph (god of breath—Nef is breath) and Hathor, the
cow-headed bearer of the sun, take the queen by the hand and hold
the Ankh, symbol of life, to her mouth. This is the act of incarnation,
which has a visible result in the fuller shape of the queen. In the next
scene the child is born. In the fourth, we have the adoration, with
three human figures kneeling behind the god Kneph. These may be
seen in Sharpe’s Egyptian Mythology and Egyptian Christianity, p. 19.
Sharpe calls the child Amenhept HI.; this is a mistake. Queen Tii
was the wife of Amenhept III., and mother of Amenhept IY. (otherwise
Rhuen-Aten).
After this (and it could be paralleled fifty times over in mythology, for I
have collected the proofs) the reader will understand that it is not abso¬
lutely imperative for Spiritualists, as such, to go forth to the world,
and in the name of Spiritualism vouch for the fact that the Creator and
Sustainer of the universe did actually run the risk of a general mis¬
carriage of all things during nine months of gestation.
It was necessary that the origin and meaning of mythology should, if
possible, be ascertained to distinguish between one'kind of fact and
another, before the ground could be clear for Spiritualism. Till this
was done, I saw we were sowing the most precious seed in a thicket of
thorns, a wilderness of brambles, hence my work of pioneering the way
in a Book of the Beginnings, and in which the brambles will have a bad
time of it. All who care to know what is what, will do well to think
over the material collected by Madame Blavatsky and Godfrey Higgins,
for its iconoclastic value. Iconoclasts are greatly needed, for there are
huge buildings, and rocks, and boulders, that have to be pounded, as
with a Nasmyth steam-hammer, into sand, and disintegrated into soil
for the seed of Spiritualism to be sown. As to the past, my own con¬
viction is that Spiritualists cannot do better for the present than begin
afresh, about 1848, and go on verifying and vouching for nothing but
their own facts (every one has the right to his own theory) even at the
risk of canonising Kate Fox as the saint of a new dispensation, and
sacre-ing Madame Blavatsky as its satan. Gerald Massey.
Sir,—It appears to me that self-justification must always be a thing
abhorrent to every true and independent mind; yet, as Mrs. Showers’
accusation of credulity in myself is made the signal of an attack upon
Madame Blavatsky’s good faith, I feel bound to speak, though I would
far rather be silent. Indeed, so distasteful and foreign to my natural
character is the public controversy into which I have latterly been drawn,
from having complied with a request sent to me in America to give an
account of my experiences on my return, that nothing would now be
more welcome to me than disappearance from the pages of public
journals altogether; but so long as peace is not consistent with honour,
I am bound to remain exposed to fire. I will, however, be as brief as
possible.
Allow me, therefore, to inform Mrs. Showers that while in New York
I spent five weeks as a visitor in Madame Blavatsky’s house, or rather
flat, on Eighth Avenue. Previously to that, on first arriving in America,
I had spent two afternoons with her, and during my month’s absence in
the New England States and in Niagara I corresponded with her,
besides meeting many friends who knew her personally. While staying
in her house, in addition to my own daily intercourse with her, I had
the privilege of hearing her converse, often for hours together (for her
Russian hospitality never permitted short visits), with learned men of
all degrees on the subjects connected with her book. I also saw the
greater part of her correspondence during that time, for with all her
wonderful power of language she distrusts her own knowledge of English,
and frequently asked me to correct any grammatical errors I might find
in her letters. Those letters often contained quotations in Greek,
Hebrew, and Oriental languages, which, I need not say, I was incom¬
petent to read, but which I assume to have been correct, or Madame
Blavatsky would hardly have ventured to send them to men holding
chairs in (even) American Universities. As regards Isis Unveiled,
I may also state that I have had in my hands a large roll of MS., which
the authoress and publisher of that book agreed to reject, as making it
even more bulky than it is already, and which was in Madame
Blavatsky’s own handwriting. Possibly these pages contain some of
those experiences which Mrs. Showers so much desires to read, and it
is not unlikely that they may even yet be given to the world.
Possibly, also, Madame Blavatsky may think well to inform Mrs.
Showers more directly than I feel able or at liberty to do as to the
sources from which her knowledge is derived. I will only add that
the learned men of the East, whose existence Mrs. Showers seems to
doubt, are known to me, some of them by name, others by their por¬
traits, or handwritings; in short, much in the same way as other
persons whom we have not seen, but whose existence we do not doubt,
are known to us.
I repeat, then, that Madame Blavatsky is a Buddhist, that her home
is in India, or rather in Ceylon, and that she intends to return there
shortly. She may, or may not, stay in England on her way thither;
her plans are as yet unsettled,
♦Tagster and Song,
12S
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Maech 15, 1878.
With regard to another point, Madame Blavatsky will be able to
inform Mrs. Showers, in her own inimitable manner, that the learned
Brahmins and Buddhists of India did not require a Sir William Jones
or an Asiatic Society to teach them what precious treasures were in
their own possession, treasures always jealously guarded from European
eyes, and, moreover, that one of the deepest insults offered them by the
British Government is the appointment of German professors to the
. chairs of Sanscrit in Hindu colleges.
I do not expect, in the above explanation, to convince any one of I
anything of which he or she does not wish to be convinced. But I
hope I have shown that I have a fairer claim to a knowledge of Madame
Blavatsky’s character, habits, modes of thought and life than those who, j
like Mrs. Showers, have, by their own showing, only partially perused
her book, who have no personal acquaintance with her or any of her i
friends, and who have, I maintain, no right to cast upon me the slur of j
credulity without inquiring what opportunities I may have had of ascer- |
taining the truth of “pretensions” which I grieve to see have excited j
the hasty “vituperation” of one, in other respects so accomplished as I
Mrs. Showers. And if anything had been wanting to confirm me in the
wisdom of “ esoteric ’’ methods, it is the manner in which the present
controversy on Theosophy has been conducted, persons having entered
the lists under double disguises, with no other preparation than the
perusal of one or two newspaper articles, and no other weapons than
ill-pointed epithets. It has been well said by an ancient Jewish writer |
—“ Herein is a mystery; and whoso understandeth it, let him hold his
peace.” Emily Kislingbuby. |
Sib,—The editorial privilege of the “last word” is a condition of j J
journalistic controversy. Still, such last word may contain matter that, i j
in fairness, makes a rejoinder admissible. So when you say, in your ! j
footnote to Dr. Carter Blake’s letter this week, “ if it gives offence to ! j
Theosophists to be asked for proofs or facts, let it be so stated,” I may i /
be allowed, in reply, to use your own words in reference to a question of i (
mine, mutatis mutandis, “ If you know that it does not, and that nothing | j
we have ever said in your paper contains evidence that it does, perhaps \ )
there may be a slight trace of accidental unfairness in unnecessarily ! j
importing prejudice by putting such an idea into the minds of casual j j
readers.” We are not offended, we are simply bewildered when we are I
asked for evidence of such a proposition as that of the annihilation—as ! j
a conscious personality—of the thoroughly sensual and material soul, j j
That proposition results from our philosophy of spirit, and “ evidence ” I \
of it can only be found in a study of that philosophy. I am afraid we | j
cannot show you an annihilated soul. And that we should present i j
“the ghost of the shadow of an example of the occasional annihilation i |
of the spirit of a living man ” we must hold to be indeed impossible, j J
since it is one of our “ cardinal doctrines ” that this never happens, or i j
can happen, “ the spirit ” being necessarily immortal, and that which I j
confers immortality upon man. Personal immortality we hold to be the i j
result of that complete identification with the spirit, the higher self, I)
which comes from the final extinction of all the selfish propensities and ! j
desires of the lower self. It is that which the intuition of religious i j
“ mystics” of all ages has described as “union with God.” All that j)
is temporal is subject to change and decay, and if the consciousness, ! ]
attracted by desire, clings to material conditions, we think that it must i i
needs be lost with the dissolution of these, as that it will enter into ! j
eternity if it attaches itself to that which is eternal. This is the j
principle, that immortality is potential, and must be won; that regener- ■ f
ation—the Divine spirit individualised in consciousness, or coming to j)
consciousness in us—is no religious figure of speech, but a veritable ; j ]
metaphysical fact, and that the lower, sensual consciousness is neither ! j j
worth preserving, nor has any foundation of permanence. We are here j) |
confessedly in the region of metaphysics; yet we are met with a demand i j i
for evidence, as if we were giving an account of a dark sSance. The j [ I
effects of will-power do admit of more palpable exhibition, but as you j |
yourself call attention to the evidence on this head of Prince Wittgen- j j j
stein (to which you might have added a very remarkable communication | j
in your journal, from Mr. Judge, also a member of the Theosophical j! ]
Society), I may perhaps assume that, so far, you do not adhere | j I
to the charge of our putting forward unevidenced statements; I j j
for the transcorporeal action of embodied man, the evidence has j j j
been recently collected and published by “M.A., Oxon.” Both to j|j
him and to you I must apologise if anything I have said implied that j j j
either of you have failed to recognise the subjective origin of much that j I j
purports to be communication from foreign spirits. But, in fact, I only ! | j
stated a dilemma in which you seemed to be placed, and I asked for a j j
much larger admission, which it is clear that you, at least, are not dis- j i
posed to make. Nor do I think that an appeal to critical interpretation i j!
of phenomena is very appropriately described as “ vague generality.” j) j
I meant that purposeless lies, aberrations from the logic of the com- ] j I
monest intelligence, the piecing together of fragments of mental furni- 11 j
ture are very unlikely products of the lowest human reason; that when j | i
the intelligence is clearly that of the medium I cannot believe that the j j j
agency (as in direct writing, for instance) is that of a distinct human j (j
spirit, and that the failure, in the great majority of cases, to supply | j I
satisfactory tests of identity—surely, the very easiest demand which can \ I j
be made upon a human being with a history and a memory—should j.( |
lead us to the recognition of one or both of the other causes for which I j
was pleading. For direct testimony I would refer to the literature of i J j
magic and witchcraft. So far from the Theosophical Society or its repire- |) |
sentatives wishing Spiritualists to accept anything without evidence, j j |
their whole desire is that they should be well informed and critical.
I hardly know how to deal with “M. A., Cantab.—Scrutator.” Usually, | !
a disputant may be assumed to have read what he quotes, and that if ! 11
he mistakes the meaning there is at least some apparent ambiguity or j
obscurity in the passage to account for it. I should have thought that j j I
it would not require the education of a Cambridge graduate so to read a j j
sentence of English that it should refer to the subject-matter of the im-
(j mediately antecedent sentence, and not to another sentence further back,
| i to which the whole context makes it utterly inappropriate. Col. Olcott
) i is speaking of the fate of the debased and materialised soul, and he says
(! “ Usually the separation of soul and spirit occurs before the bodily
! i death. His critic—this literary duality—makes that proposition apply
| to the earlier statement, with which it is clearly inconsistent, respect-
I i ing the progress of the man who does finally attain immortality, and
II asks the “ candid reader ” to apply it in the same way. T hope the
|! candid reader will do nothing of the sort, and will not read a plain Eng-
11 lish sentence in a manner which can only be justified by the exigency of the
1 j critic. Col. Olcott’s position was very clearly stated, that the spirit accom-
| panies, but it is not actually united with us during our lives of proba¬
tion. The ultimate uniorq or junction, spoken of in the earlier sentence,
has, therefore, no reference whatever to any separation at or before
death. But “M.A., Cantab.,” repeats what he and his “double,”
| “ Scrutator,” said before, “ in justice to himself and his readers.” His
statement was, and, therefore, still is, that all physical mediums,
according to Colonel Olcott, have lost their spirits, and are doomed to
annihilation. He founds this on Colonel Olcott’s proposition that all
I the physical phenomena are produced either by elementaries or by the
soul of the medium. I asked, first, how is this sweeping condemnation
to be extracted from an alternative proposition? No answer. I asked,
! secondly, where does Colonel Olcott say or imply that the soul of a
| physical medium has lost its spirit ? The answer is the citation of a
passage about the separation of soul and spirit, in which there is not
| one word about physical mediums or their souls, which is evidently
| confined in its application to debased and materialised souls, and which,
I if it was not so confined, must apply to all souls, good, bad, and indif-
| ferent alike, without any special reference to mediums. It is only a
I trifling addition to this confusion that “ M.A., Cantab.,” regards the
: progress of the soul during the incalculable period (which, by the
I by, may be short or long) of purification as equivalent to its anni-
! hilation. Then, thirdly, I quoted Colonel Olcott (from the same letter)
j that in a particular case of physical mediumship the phenomena must
| have been produced by the medium’s own soul, because of her purity,
| rather than by an alternative cause, which would, in his opinion, have
j implied impure affinities. Oh, says “ M.A., Cantab.,” Colonel Olcott
i makes an exception of this young lady. He is the best judge whether
j this sort of thing does justice to himself, but I venture to suggest that
i he pays a poor compliment to his readers in saying that he repeats a
i statement so supported in justice to them. One mystery, which sorely
i perplexed me, I am glad to have cleared up. It was that two inde-
j pendent minds—“M.A., Cantab.,” and “ Scrutator”—should have read
i Colonel Olcott’s letter in the same unaccountably perverse manner.
| That appeared to be a coincidence likely to mislead many into supposing
! that an interpretation thus independently arrived at, must have some-
| thing to say for itself. I confess the hypothesis of identity did occur to
i me, but I repelled it as an unworthy suspicion. Probably, sir, you will
I be of opinion that the “ double,” however interesting as a phenomenon,
| is not to be encouraged in literary controversy.
In taking leave of “ M.A., Cantab.,” I may explain that the “ com-
| pulsion,” about which he is curious, simply refers to the repeated invi-
| tations of the editor of this journal in its pages, to the Theosophical
I Society to come out and explain themselves, and which at length elicited
Colonel Olcott’s letter.
I have only to add my cordial concurrence with Dr. Carter Blake in
acknowledging the liberality with which the most opposite opinions are
allowed expression in The Spiritualist. C. C. Massey,
Winchester, March 10th, 1878.
Sib,—I am no stranger to you, and you know that I read The
Spiritualist with one of my friends, and that we both are Spiritualists
in the real sense of the word. I have seen and heard much, and thought
more about what we may safely call “our religion,” because we
Spiritualists know. I am virtually in the position of St. Thomas, who
felt the wounds of Jesus. I know. Therefore I am very sorry that a
kind of war is going on between the Spiritualists and the Theosophists,
and for this reason I should like Madame Blavatsky to read the recent
work of Professor Zollner, Wissenschaftliche Abhandlungen, 1878,
Leipzig. I will not take up the gauntlet which Theosophy has thrown
to us. My sole desire is to give to our brethren a generally accepted
definition of Theosophy.
Theosophy (from thios and sophia, divine science) is the science which
pretends to be inspired from God Himself, without however being a
positive revelation. The Theosophists form a school of mystical
philosophers, who declare human reason nonsense and impossible, and
who believe themselves inspired and enlightened by a supernatural
principle; they add to all this enthusiasm the observation of nature,
and the study of metaphysics and medicine. It is in reality nothing
new, for the same thing is found among the mystics of all times—among
the Gnostics, the Neoplatonists, and the Philosophers of Hermes. The
real Theosophists date, however, from the year XVI., or thereabouts,
and begin with Paracelsus. They are there divided into two parts,
the one more popular and more mystic than learned, to whom belong
J. Boehm, Swedenborg, Martinez, Pasqualis, and St. Martin; the other
branch is more scientific, philosophical, and theological, and includes
Paracelsus, Cornelius, Agrippa, Val. Weigel, R. Fludd, and Von
Helmont.
In tracing the history of Theosophists, we come to those who con¬
sidered themselves Illumines. These were persons who believed them¬
selves to have received the light of truth direct from above, i.e., tbe
reflection of divine wisdom. The root of this belief may be found in
India among the Brahmins and others. We find the Indian Gnosti¬
cisms revived by Boehm, about a.d. 1700, and again in 1800 by
Pasquales and others.
I have no intention to continue this historical resume of what Theo¬
sophists claim to be, who at the eleventh hour wish de marier leur
March 15, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
129
maniere de voir with us. Those who study Spiritualism are no babes,
and do not want any milk. If Madame Blavatsky can tell me why
the egg of a bird, boiled under certain circumstances, cannot become
hard, or by what process an idiot can be made, or by what reason, under
different circumstances (she is as strong as a man, therefore I have no
reason not to say what I wish), the sex of an unborn child may be
changed, ad libitum, I will answer her, but not with elementaries.
Madame Blavatsky is a woman. I have the greatest respect for her
personally, but ... the rest may be guessed. Qui sine peccato est
vestrum primus in illam lapidem mittat. Alpha.
The Hague, Holland.
Sir,—In your number of March 8th, page 115, Mrs. Showers kindly
exhorts “ Mr. O’Sullivan, and others, who are bewailing their ap¬
proaching bereavement, to be of good heart! ”—because she does not
believe a bit in Madame Blavatsky’s intention of returning (now that
she has accomplished her “mission” of publishing her book, and
laying the foundations of her school of Occidental Buddhism) to her
beloved Orient again, never more to quit it, nor to be looked upon by
European or American eyes, or to be listened to by our ears.
Will Mrs. Showers allow me to say that, while fully appreciating
the strong intellectuality of her style of writing, I am not aware of
having expressed any such bewailing an approaching bereavement, nor
uttered any voice of wailing at all.
I certainly find more points of concurrence and sympathy with ideas
indicated by Mrs. Showers—a Spiritualist, like myself, and, like
myself, neither a Buddhist nor a Theosophist, but a simple and humble,
however unworthy (so far as regards myself), Christian—than I do
with what I understand of the views of Madame Blavatsky or Colonel
Olcott. Having had the honour and pleasure of seeing somewhat of
the latter two remarkable persons in New York—not as a disciple, but
as an observer and as a friend—I simply related some of the extra¬
ordinary phenomena I witnessed in Madame Blavatsky’s presence, and
expressed my perfect conviction of the sincerity, the honesty, and the
elevation of character alike of her and of Colonel Olcott. That con¬
viction remains fixed and deep-rooted in my mind.
Mrs. Showers seems to have no faith in that lady’s pretension of
having ever been in the Far East at all (she told me that she had
spent the best part of her life, thirty years, in the very heart of it),
but to assume that she has culled the materials of her two huge
volumes out of other people’s books. I will not call this judgment un¬
charitable, since it is that of a lady, and that lady, Mrs. Showers; but I
may be allowed to deem it a little precipitate, and thereby unjust. I
used to see' the proof sheets of the earlier pages passing under the
hands of Colonel Olcott and Mrs. Blavatsky, and I perfectly remember
their having told me that the work was to consist mainly, not of her
own statements of what she had seen and known, but of the con¬
current and confirmatory testimony of other travellers and authors. I
have not yet seen her work, but I know, both from her and from
Colonel Olcott, that this is the point of view from which it should be
understood and judged. ,.
Let me beg Mrs. Showers to reconsider her judgment about it by i j
the light of that idea of its purposes and meaning. At the same time, | (
Madame Blavatsky told me she had seen all those things, and much j (
more, but that she meant to collect the independent, various and j|
published, testimony of what others had seen, rather than to present if
only her own. ‘ /
Mrs. Showers declines to believe in her intended early return to her j j
beloved Orient. I can only say that she expressed to me that purpose, j (
and that earnest longing, in the strongest manner. Nor have I the I (
slightest doubt of its sincerity. I only alluded to the fact, without j /
“bewailing” anything. If Mrs. Showers should declare to me any if
strong and earnest purpose, dependent solely on our own will and j(
desire, the last thing I shall dream of doing will be to doubt her i j
sincerity. Is she not a trifle rash in disbelieving that of a lady wholly j (
unknown to her, but who is undeniably a woman of high intellectuality !
and vast and varied learning, as well as one who (apart from marvel- j
lous abnormal or medial power) always awakens an extraordinary degree i
of respect and confidence in those who approach her ? And amongst j
those there are certainly some who, with the aid of personal acquaint- i
ance and intercourse, are at least as favourably situated for the forma- I
tion of a right judgment of her as can be one who views her only across j
an oceanic distance of three thousand miles.
I asked Madame Blavatsky whether she meant to return to her |
antipodal Thibet, by going east or west—by way of Europe or that of I
California. She did not know. “ And when you get there, what wil j
you do 1 ” “ Oh, I shall end my life in a lamasery.” That is to say* j
she would become a sort of Buddhist nun, or “adept” priestess— i
which it is my belief that she is already. If she goes by way of Eng- I
land, I hope Mrs. Showers will make her acquaintance, and then, I m
think, she will be the first to wish to unwrite some part of her letter,
which has suggested this most respectful reply from one who is no |J
more a disciple of Madame Blavatsky than is Mrs. Showers herself. I
J. L. 0’Sullivan. jj
Paris, March 9.  
Sir,—I have read with much regret in your last issue the communi- j (
cation signed by Mrs. Showers. I am not a member of the Theosophical i
Society, and I have not the honour of Madame Blavatsky’s acquaint- | ]
ance, but I certainly should not have thought that a lady whose learning j,
and ability have commanded the respectful attention of “ M.A., Oxon.,”
and who has been claimed as a friend by Miss Emily Kislingbury, would |
have met with what I must term the uncalled-for abuse with which Mrs, ]
Showers has seen fit to assail her. Your correspondent has hastened j
into print before, according to her own statement, she has even taken j
the trouble to read through Madame Blavatsky’s work, and, judging j
from some of the remarks she makes in the course of her letter, it 1
I appears to me that her present fitness to pronounce an opinion on the
subjects treated therein is open to question. When Mrs. Showers has
i attained some little knowledge of the ancient astronomical religion,
which will enable her to apply to it some other term than “ The foul
Osiris worship of Egypt,” and when she is able to perceive that though
| it is perfectly true that the temples of Karnac and Luxor are in ruins,
it does not necessarily follow that the knowledge once imparted in those
temples is not still in the possession of those who are found worthy to
receive it, or that “ Astrologer, and prophet, and magician, passed away
forever long centuries ago,” she will, I think, be prepared to attach a
proper value to Isis Unveiled, and to appreciate the knowledge and
research which have been employed in its compilation.
With regard to the emblems of the much misunderstood phallic wor¬
ship alluded to by Mrs. Showers, I may state for her information that
| they are to be found decorating nearly every church in the kingdom,
and may easily be recognised by any person who has the smallest
U knowledge of the subject. It. Palmer Thomas.
j i London, March 9th, 1878.
Sir,—Instead of Spiritualists going off into discussions with the Theo-
II sophists as to the probability or improbability of “elementaries,” “ elemen-
(| tals,” and “ lost souls,” would it not be better to keep to the primal and
(i cardinal fact, and either establish or disestablish it ? The Spiritualist
i t! says, he (the Spiritualist) is only the clay in the hands of the potter,
i (I spirit; but the Theosophist says, he (the Theosophist) is the potter, and
| [ I the spirit is the clay. Now, Spiritualists are like most other people, I
! 11 dare say, and have no particular desire to be servants when they can
( be masters; and I have no doubt would gladly receive from the Theo-
| [ i sophists their “ rules for commanding the spirits, even as the
j | j Spiritualist publishes his “ rules for the formation of spirit circles.”
! (j The Spiritualists could then try their hand' at commanding, and there
] | \ ought to be no difficulty about this, because, as Dr. Wyld says, “ the
| (I spirit of the medium does it,” and of course a man can do as he likes
j j with his own. I do not know whether the Theosophists intend their
]) i society to be a secret one on the mutual admiration principle, or whether
j (i it is to be a money matter, but 1 shall give them credit fbr a desire to
! I benefit others, just as the Spiritualist does; and if they decline to give
I} I the Spiritualists their “ rules for commanding the spirits,” I think that
III Spiritualists may fairly consider their teaching as mere sophistry, that
! | their ism is Theo-sophism, and its professors Theo-sopbists.
| j Onlooker.
|){ DAILY NEWSPAPER MISREPRESENTATIONS'.
Sir,—In reference to the paragraph from the Manchester Guardian,
referred to by Mr. Charles Blackburn, and reproduced in your issue of
the 8th inst., I have to state, on behalf of the Besearch Committee of
the British National Association of Spiritualists, that there is no
foundation whatever for any of the statements of the London corre¬
spondent of the above paper, with the exception only of that which
notifies the appointment of the committee in question, a piece of news
which is already nearly two years old.
Desmond Gr. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.,
Chairman of Committee.
THE INSPIRATION OF THE HEBREW PROPHETS.
Sir,—In your last number Mr. McKinney respectfully asks me for
my authority for writing in The Spiritualist of 25th January, “ No
(true) Hebrew prophet was ever controlled by any departed spirit, and
no evangelist ever spoke but as from his own God-enlightened spirit;”
and he t instances the narrative given in the first and nineteenth
chapters of Revelations as an apparent refutation of my views.
I turn to these chapters; but, instead of a refutation, I find a
confirmation of my views. The very first begins—“ The revelation of
Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him” (John). Verse 10—“ 1 was
in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, and heard a great voice.” It is true
that an angel was sent to communicate the message, but is it not self-
evident that consciously to receive a message from a visible angel is a
J totally different transaction from being controlled by an invisible and
| unknown departed human spirit ?
I am much obliged to Mr. McKinney for reminding me of chapter
xviii. of 2nd Chronicles. It is a grand chapter, and most emphatically
| illustrates the difference between the false prophets and “ the prophets
of the Lord” A lying spirit is there described as volunteering to
control the 400 false prophets—to be a lying spirit in the mouth of
these prophets;” who, being thus controlled, one and all urged the
I King of Israel to go up to battle. But the King of Judah, more wisely,
I asked, “ Is there not here a prophet of the Lord besides (these 400),
j that we may inquire of him?” Micaiah, the only prophet of the Lord,
was sent for, and he predicted the death and destruction of the King of
Israel and his host, if they went up to battle. The reward Micaiah
| received was to be “smitten on the face and shut up in prison, and fed
i on the bread and water of affliction.” The King of Israel, however,
| believing the 400 false prophets controlled by the evil spirit, went up to
battle, and was slain, and bis people scattered over the hills, as pre-
I dieted by Micaiah.
I These 400 false prophets were mediums, under the control of one evil
II spirit. The one true prophet of the Lord spoke “ as the Holy Spirit
11 gave him utterance.” Throughout the Old Testament the language
11 always is, “ Thus saith the Lord,” or “ The Spirit of the Lord is upon
i j me.” In not one single instance, so far as I can remember, was any
i j prophet of the Lord controlled by a departed human spirit. On the
11 contrary, the doctrine of the Bible is that the control of departed human
I spirits is necromancy; and this is emphatically condemned.
i In reply to Mr. McKinney’s last question I would say that although
I i necromancy was thus condemned in those early days, this does not, I
130
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1878.
conceive, preclude us from experimenting scientifically in this matter;
nor is the obligation to put witches to death binding on us now.
In these ages of the world, before the existence of philanthropic
societies and reformatory associations, the laws applied to delinquent
human beings were much the same as we now apply to beasts of prey.
We do not now put witches to death, but if mediums were by trick or
conjuring to rob us of our money, even modern Spiritualists would not
hesitate to imprison them.
The object of my recent papers has not been to disprove the facts of
the control in certain cases exercised by departed human spirits; but to
indicate that such control is always unreliable, frequently deceptive and
dangerous, and sometimes very wicked. As a scientific experiment such
investigations are profoundly interesting, but as the basis of a religion
spiritual phenomena may become a worshipping of false gods in contra¬
distinction to the only true religion, which by temperance, love, and
prayer so awakens our own dormant spirit, that it seeks, finds, and is
controlled by the Father of all Spirits. George Wyld, M.D.
12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, London.
CHRISTIANITT VERSUS BUDDHISM.
Sir,—May I intrude on your space to suggest some considerations
awakened by Col. Olcott’s letters, which, as it seems to me, have not
yet been touched upon in the interesting comments upon them hitherto
published. Like “ M. A., Oxon,” I am startled at Col. Olcott’s assertion
that “ he adheres to Oriental religious philosophers as better guides to
happiness and morality than the Christian theology ”; and I would ask
him if these religious philosophies are, in his opinion, better guides for
the majority of mankind than Christian theology, or only better for a
small inner circle of sages ? If he considers that Eastern faiths have
really done more for their followers in the mass than Christianity has
done for its followers, I would ask him how he accounts for the degraded
state of women and the maintenance of caste among the Hindus (an
Aryan race like ourselves) and for the gross superstitions and cruelties,
and the utter recklessness ot human life which distinguish the lower
classes in countries where Buddhism has been the prevailing creed for
centuries ? Why, if the teachings of these religions tend to produce
greater happiness and a higher morality than Christianity, have they
not emancipated women, broken the bonds of slaves, mitigated the
cruelties of legal punishment, let light and mercy into prisons, and
taught men to look on themselves as equals in rights and blood, as
Christianity has done ? If, on the other hand, Col. Olcott only means
that the highest teachings of these religions, as understood by the few,
are more philosophical and enlightening than the dogmas of Christianity
as understood by the gross-minded many in Christian countries, is he
not comparing two things that have no relation to each other ? Ought
not a religion to be judged by the whole of its fruits ? And is not that
religion most divine that can descend lowest and leaven the whole lump,
as well as raise a chosen few to high attainments of wisdom ? Col.
Olcott will hardly say that Christian theology, as expounded by its j
highest teachers—such as Thomas a Kempis, Fenelon, Pascal, Madame i
Guyon-Tauler, Professor Maurice, &c.—has any tendency to promote lazy
self-indulgence, or allow men to rest content with a small degree of
effort after the higher life.
It often seems to me that contemners of current Christian theology
make an unfair use of the allegorical forms and somewhat gross phrases
and images under which average preachers present obscure doctrine to
their hearers. Many, doubtless, do hold the literal and sordid views of
“ rewards and punishments,” “atonement,” “conversion,” that their
criticisers credit them with ; but the words carry quite other meaning
to all thoughtful and sincere souls—to those whose ears are open to
spiritual truths. These, while they sing of golden crowns and glory,
remember that Christ the “ King of Glory” is also the “ King of self-
sacrifice ” ; and, in talking of atonement and salvation, understand that
it is sin from which they look to be saved ; and that conversion, let it
be ever so much the effect of an outside influence upon them, means for
them the passing from a life of self-indulgence—from death—into a
life of holiness and active benevolence, which it life.
It always puzzles me why Spiritualists should sneer at conversion. Do
they not recognise spiritual influx, and is it not very comprehensible that
there should be epochs in a soul’s history when the avenues to spirit
influences, closed before, are opened to receive them, and men may
suddenly become conscious of new powers, and new motives in them¬
selves ? Spiritualism seems to me to open out all Christian mysteries,
and flare them with a clear light. Do not let us throw away our jewel
caskets just when we have found their keys.
A Christian Spiritualist.
visions.
Sir,—I am sorry to be obliged “to take the ‘shine’ out of” Mr.
Atkinson’s method of explaining away spiritualistic phenomena, but
your correspondent is a sort of philosophical Rip Van Winkle. He
appears to have made no progress in spiritual knowledge during the
last quarter of a century, and, in accounting for visions, he has resorted
to an old-fashioned theory which one would expect to find in some
antiquated Encyclopasdia or Physiological Journal.
Mr. Atkinson tells us of a lady in a delicate state of health, who saw
for several days in succession a snake climbing up her table, and sipping
from a vessel which was placed there ; whereupon Mr. Atkinson imme¬
diately jumps to the conclusion that the lady’s vision was not an
objective reality but a subjective phantasm, superinduced by a morbid
state of the nervous system. This style of theorising makes one almost
despair of ever establishing spiritual truth.
Your space is too valuable to be occupied in an elaborate refutation
of Mr. Atkinson’s inference; but none of your readers ought to be
allowed to remain under the fallacy which has been thus revived. I
may therefore positively assert that there are real spiritual serpents as
well as material ones, and that the ghosts of animals are seen by
clairvoyants as frequently as the ghosts of human beings. This fact I
have been able, after a long experience, to establish beyond the shadow
of a doubt. There is no reason for supposing that the sick lady referred
to did not actually see, as an objective reality, a spiritual snake gliding
and clambering about her room; and I am sure it was as certain a
reality as Mr. Atkinson’s letter to you. Miss Martineau’s visions were
of a similar spiritual nature. Adamus.
I THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
) MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council
i of the British National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander
[ | Calder, president, occupied the chair. The other members present
j! were Dr. George Wyld, Mr. Morell Theobald, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr.
11 and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. H. Withall, Mrs. Maltby, Mrs.
i Lowe, Mrs. Makdougall-Gregory, Dr. J. M. Peebles, Mr. Glendinning,
1 i Herr Christian Reimers, Mr. Cornelius Pearson, Mr. C. C. Massey, the
Rev. W. W. Newbould, Mr. Stainton Moses, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. E. D.
! Rogers, Mr. M. J. Walhouse, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Miss Houghton, and
Mr. H. T. Edmands.
The minutes of the last meeting having been read and confirmed,
Three new members were elected. There was one resignation.
It was announced that Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen had been elected
| to represent the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism
| on the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
| The Report of the Finance Committee set forth that the balance in
i hand of the Association amounted to £161 4s. 3d., and recommended
| payments to the extent of £32 19s. lOd. The outstanding liabilities
of the Association were estimated at £15.
Mr. Dawson Rogers moved that Dr. J. M. Peebles be allowed to
copy a list of the names and addresses of the members of the Associa-
I tion. This was seconded by Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, and carried
unanimously.
Mr. Stainton Moses moved the reception of the report of the General
Purposes Committee, which recommended the abolition of the monthly
agenda, the letting of the spare room of the Association, the sub¬
scribing among the members of the amount necessary in consequence
of tbe expiration of the guarantee fund, and the raising of the charge
j for admission to soirees to 2s. 6d. each person.
Mr. C. C. Massey seconded the motion for the reception of the report,
and it was carried unanimously.
| Mr. Stainton Moses moved that the monthly agenda be abolished.
He did so on the score of the expense of the agenda.
I Dr. Wyld seconded this.
Mr. E. T. Bennett moved an amendment, that the agenda be en¬
larged, and continued to all members free, and to other persons on
i payment; he further announced that five or six persons whose names
he would not give, had agreed to buy 1,000 copies at 4s. per 100.
Mr. R. Pearce seconded this.
Mr. Massey wished to know the nature of the suggested enlargement.
Mr. Bennett said he meant the agenda to be much the same as at
present, plus the reports of committees, and plus advertisements.
Mr. C. C. Massey thought that if they enlarged the agenda as pro¬
posed, and tried to turn it into a journal, they were launching the
Association into more expenses over it than at present.
| Dr. Wyld objected to the continuation of the agenda, and wished
to know, if Mr. Bennett’s plan were carried out, who was to edit it ?
Mr. Dawson Rogers supported Mr. Bennett’s plan, and said that
j two or three persons should be appointed editors,
j Dr. Wyld thought the plan looked like trying to make the Associa-
I tion set up an opposition to the Spiritual newspapers, and that, sup¬
posing money could be raised for the purpose, it could be spent more
advantageously in other directions.
The Chairman was of the same opinion.
Mr. C. C. Massey thought that the proposition, if carried out, would
provide plenty of “ hot water ” for the council. An association com¬
posed of persons of different views would not let the association be com¬
mitted to literary matter coloured, as it must be, by the opinions of
the proposed editors.
The question was then given to the General Purposes Committee
for reconsideration, the financial aspect of the case having been
altered.
A proposition to raise the annual subscription of the future new
members to £2 2s., in consequence of the advantages of the use of the
] rooms and libraries being worth it, was postponed till next month for
consideration.
It was resolved not to raise the charge for admission to soirees.
It was resolved that tickets to the Inquirer’s Seances, admitting a
member and one friend, be sold to members only, at 3s. 6d. each. A
| proposition that they might be sold to outsiders was negatived.
On the motion of Mrs. Lowe, it was resolved that no bills or
! notices be posted in the rooms of the Association without the authority
of the Council.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald announced that, owing to an oversight on
the part of the Research Committee, and not to any fault of th«
medium, the “ bell test ” had not been obtained under such absolute
test conditions as was supposed at the time.
11 i The proceedings then closed.
March 15, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
THE EVOLUTION THEOEY CONSIDERED IN ITS H
RELATION TO PSYCHOLOGY.*
BY Or. F. GREEN, AUTHOR OF ONE OF THE PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE NATIONAL j 1
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. )\
The notion that man is descended from some lower form of animal 11
life is not in itself new, but also not until the present century has it 11
been sufficiently supported by facts to make it a coherent aud tenable (i
hypothesis. It is now so buttressed round by facts and analogies ) i
gathered from every department of natural history that it is fast taking ) |
its place among scientifically proved theories. I will here state what I (i
mean by a proved scientific theory. Arguments may be divided into ) I
three kinds—(1) demonstrations, (2) proofs, (3) probabilities. _ Under j
the first head come metaphysics and the exact sciences; but their scope j ( j
is narrow. The two other kinds—proofs and probabilities—differ only j) I
in the effect produced upon the mind, and under one of these two heads i ( j
we may place every scientific theory. By scientific or inductive j ( |
reasoning we arrive at something which the human mind does not 11 ;
doubt, as that the sun will rise to-morrow. By deductive reasoning j ( !
only do we arrive at conclusions which the mind cannot doubt, as that j j j
the three angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles. While j / j
granting this to the metaphysicians and Mr. Massey, I claim the in- j j
ductive method as the most reliable in the end, for it bases its conclu- (j
sions on a broader platform than any other. At the beginning of the ) j
argument the postulate, “ I think therefore I exist,” may seem more ( j
indisputable than “(the world of phenomena exists, therefore I think ” ; j |
but as we proceed it becomes apparent that the edifice erected on the ) i
former basis assumes the shape of an inverted cone, and the higher we (j
build it up (albeit the foundation is immovable) the unsteadier it (I
becomes ; in fact, it cannot be carried to any height. But not to dwell i) |
on this well-worn metaphor, I will only say that the doctrine of evolu- j ( j
tion seems to me to belong to the class of highly probable theories i j i
(such as the theory of gravitation) which produce on the mind the effect / j
of proof. Whether any other causes have been at work—besides ( j
“ natural selection ”—in producing the variations of type which con- | I
stitute distinct species, it is not necessary to inquire, but I am taking it ) j
as proved that all existing varieties have one common origin, and have ( |
been brought into existence by the action of universal laws. It seems ) j
to me that this theory is sufficiently proved if it be shown to be J / J
possible only, for there is no other way of accounting for the existence ( ;
of species, except by a separate act of creation for each new species, ) j
which is an indolent hypothesis—a pure assumption without any j j
scientific evidence in its favour. . j \ j
If, then, physically man is descended from some lower form of animal j j j
life, and this in its turn from a lower and a lower still until the bottom J) \
of the scale, where the animal kingdom insensibly merges into the j ( i
vegetable, let us consider how this truth bears on psychology. At first j j j
sight it seems to militate against the belief in a future life, for it brings /
to light anotheJ1 purpose in nature—the perfection of types and species I (
—to which the well-being and life of individuals are altogether subor- |)
dinated. Like the discovery that our planet is not the centre of the j (
universe, and the other heavenly bodies merely designed to give it j
light and heat, the discovery that man is subject to and the product of |) j
the same laws as his brute fellow-creatures, is somewhat humiliating, j j j
Feeling within him the aspiration for a larger life of which he sees no j (i
ratification in nature, he cries out with Tennyson—
“ Are God and Nature, then, at strife, / j
That Nature lends such evil dreams? ? j
So careful of the type she seems— (j
So careless of the single life! ” j j
When psychology takes its proper place as a part of the science of j j
biology, and is divested of all admixture of theological dogmas and j) j
metaphysics, maybe this feeling will no longer seem to be justified.
In any case, there is such a desire for truth in the human mind as j j j
would prompt it to acknowledge even a mud-ancestry rather than be j) j
cajoled with lies into false hopes. ! (j
The chief difficulty in thus reconciling evolution with current beliefs j S
about the soul of man, arises not from any direct evidence which it j)
furnishes against the soul’s existence, but from its clashing with certain ] (
foregone conclusions as to its nature and origin. Supposing for a i)
moment it were proved by the doctrine of evolution that man has j)
descended from a soul-less ancestry, the difficulty of determining the j (
precise period in the remote past at which “ soul ’ ’ made its appearance i j
is no greater (as Darwin has observed) than the difficulty of deter- i)
mining the exact period in the development of the individual from the j (
minute germinal vesicle to the child either before or after birth, when j >
man becomes endowed with a soul. (
Instead of disputing the conclusions of this, the more advanced branch ] s
of biology—which treats of man’s physical origin—it may be a more I),
useful task to re-examine the foundations of the younger science, j (i
psychology, and see whether they support any views really antagonistic i (j
to the former. The facts of psychology are well ascertained, and must !) |
override the theories of all other sciences, but its inferences are matters i) i
of doubt, and need all the corroborative evidence which can be brought i (i
to bear upon them. The theory of the origin of the soul should har- i) j
monise with the theory of the origin of the body—otherwise both are ! (j
in doubt. s j
The order in which I propose to treat this subject, is (firstly) to state j) j
the foundations of the science of psychology, and (secondly) to consider i (j
some of its theories, especially in relation to the nature and origin of is i
the soul. j) j
The only indisputable facts of psychology appear to me to be two, i (j
viz., (1) the existence of a spiritual part in man which is capable of j
transcorporeal action; (2) its survival in numerous proved cases after j) j
the dissolution of the body. Doubtless, these two facts come far short |( j
* A paper read last Monday night before the British National Association of Spiritualists. 1
of the ordinary creed of the Spiritualist, inasmuch as they include no
assumption of the soul’s imperishableness. As I am dealing with this
question from a purely scientific point of view (without contesting,
however, the validity of other methods) I submit to your notice the
following propositio’U. Science can only recognise man as a duality—
body and soul; not as a trinity—body, soul, and spirit.- It seems as
unscientific to add the third term, about which only a negative idea can
be formed, as to add a third term to express the combination of gases
which produce water. The chemists formula for water is HO, not
HO+X. Hydrogen plus oxygen are not water, but as the cementing
force is undiscoverable as a separate element, and indescribable, it
would be useless to include it in the analysis. We may say “ man ” or
“ water,” and a distinct idea is conveyed by the words, but in ex¬
pressing the elements which go to make up these compounds, we can
but set that down which we find.
From what I have said it will be seen that I limit the field of
psychology to discovery of the origin, nature, and attributes of the
psychical entity—astral body, or whatever it might be called—without
taking into account the life-principle. This principle, whether it be the
all-pervading Divine energy, as the Pantheists hold, or something
separate and distinct from God, is “ as full, as perfect, in a hair as
heart,” and therefore would seem to have no attribute exactly equivalent
to human consciousness. That attribute, so far as we know, inheres
only in an organised form, and apart from an organised form of some
sort we cannot conceive of it.
There are many theories about the soul which lie outside of the scope
of the present inquiry, and are entirely based on metaphysical or theo¬
logical speculation. Some of these, however, may be mentioned inci¬
dentally ; and I shall first allude to the old belief that the soul after
death sleeps until the resurrection of the body. This belief indicates
the difficulty felt in conceiving of the soul’s active existence apart from
the body. It is, perhaps, less difficult to conceive of it as unconsciously
existent, and thus the dogma has found acceptance. Another belief is
that the soul is a distinct entity, sent to inhabit the body, as a tenant
inhabits a leasehold messuage. This idea finds expression in the
literature of many countries, in times near and remote, and may be
regarded as a pre-scientific theory, based on a partial and incomplete
view of nature, like many other poetic images handed down to us from
the past.
The body has been likened to “ an earthly house,” “a tabernacle,”
“ a temple,” for the soul to dwell in; thus conveying, together with a
partial truth, the impression of a disconnected origin. I do not contend
that it is false metaphor, but only an imperfect one; and I shall refer
to this again when I come to state the view which I wish to submit in
contradistinction to it.
The defect in the old systems of psychology appears to me to lie in
their ignoring the idea of growth and development, which is as patent
and obvious in regard to the soul as in regard to the body; and if this
is found to be true as regards the individual soul, it will also, I believe,
prove to be equally true in a wider sense. Darwin says—“In the
distant future I see open fields for far more important researches.
Psychology will be based on a new foundation, that of the necessary
acquirement of each mental power and capacity by gradation?'
To return to the current theologic ideas of the soul inhabiting the
body, of its being a separate creation, and of its sleeping for a time
after the dissolution of its “ earthly house,” I affirm them to be all
incomplete explanations, or else pure assumptions outside the pale of
psychological science. If we inquire whence comes this undefined
tenant of the body, we are asked to accept as an axiom, what should
only be a hoped-for conclusion to the argument, viz., that it is something
which will survive
“ Unhurt amidst the war of elements,
The wreck of matter, and the crash of worlds.”
Is this something our ordinary consciousness ? No, because that apper¬
tains always to a body. Is it the life principle ? No, because it would
be merely playing with words to say that the life principle will continue
to live.
Next to the theologic idea of the soul, we come to some philosophic
speculations, amongst which I will only briefly notice that of transmi¬
gration. The chief feature of this belief is the notion that the soul
goes through many metamorphoses, and is incarnated many times, until
purified of its earthly passions and desires. In considering this
hypothesis, we first note that it contains the idea of growth and develop¬
ment, and in so far harmonises with the analogies which we see around
us in nature. But what is it based on? Not certainly upon our ordinary
consciousness, to which in fact it is entirely opposed. We have no
recollection of any former life. It must be supposed, therefore, that
each incarnation of the soul is a kind of sleep ; that the soul is
“ Moving about in worlds not realised
and that the experience of earthly life, on the awakening of the soul
after death, is remembered as a kind of dream. To my mind, this
militates against the usefulness of the process. But what grounds are
there for believing that such a process takes place ? I know of only
two—and no doubt, if wrong, I shall be corrected—these are (1) the
teachings of spirits; (2) “ those shadowy recollections ” of another
state of existence, which Wordsworth has described as
“ The fountain light of all our day.”
As regards the former and the latter, I will only say that in both cases
the raison d'etre of the belief may be real, while the belief itself is not
formally accurate. In a recent number of The Spiritualist, Mr. Alfred
Russel Wallace has expounded a theory on this subject which contains
valuable suggestions. To my mind, the theory of reincarnation, as
propounded by Allan Kardec, presents these difficulties:—
(1.) It is opposed to the ordinary consciousness.
(2.) It necessitates the belief that souls have come from other planets,
to keep pace with the multiplication of bodies in this.
132
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1878,
(3.) It makes the belief in a double consciousness necessary. j j
I maintain also that some facts of psychology are opposed to it. For i)
instance, when a spirit controls the body of an infant (as in the case of ! (
Mr. Jencken’s baby, and the alleged reincarnations of Buddha, related |)
by Madame Blavatsky), is it not to all intents and purposes in the j)
position of a spirit 'permanently reincarnated? Ought it not, therefore, j (
by the Spiritist theory, to forget its past knowledge and career, and | j
begin its education afresh by learning to spell ? Instead of this we find |)
intelligent messages written and ideas conveyed as from a fully matured i
mind, using the child’s body as a piece of mechanism. j j
To pass on to some other theories. It is held by the Materialists j |
that “ soul ” is not a thing at all, but only an abstraction. We finow j (
this to be untrue as regards the psychical entity we are discussing. This | j
view can only apply (if at all) to the theologic definition of soul. |)
A more tenable theory, not on the face of it opposed to any known j (
facts, is that soul has, in its first beginnings, been evolved from matter, j j
This theory may be held in two forms, either that the soul is evolved in | /
the case of each individual from the action of vital processes taking | (
place after birth, or that it has been first evolved at some past time in i j
the history of the race, and then transmitted like the physical organism. )
A lady, who has been all her life a highly-gifted seeress, writes to me: (
—‘ ‘ I believe in evolution from G-od, but not from mud. The evolution )
from spirit finds its ultimatum in matter in which it works for a time, r
but where are we to look for the ultimatum of mud ? Not in spirit, (
surely ?” This is the dilemma of those who contend for only one ex- )
istence—either spirit evolved from matter, or matter from spirit. Let (
the metaphysicians choose whichever they like best. Certainly, if we I (
conceive of God as spirit, matter must have proceeded from Him, and ] j
we have here the idea of matter evolved from spirit. On the other hand, |)
if we regard the physical or phenomenal procession of events, we find j (
matter tending constantly towards higher modes of existence, and this i |
gives us the idea of spirit being evolved from matter. j)
Thus it depends entirely on the point of departure we take, whether j (
we call the processes of nature evolution or involution. In the line of j >
argument which I am asking you to follow, we are not concerned with j)
either horn of the dilemma, because we do not assume that there is only j (
one existence, matter or spirit, but we confine ourselves to concrete i j
ideas, soul and body. We may trace the evolutions of both, and, so far j j
as the eye of science can follow, their lines are parallel to one another, j (
but never intersecting or meeting. I [
I will endeavour now to lay before you as briefly as possible my view I)
of how the theory of evolution bears upon psychology.
lieturning to our facts for a moment, we know that the soul is the i [
seat of consciousness, and not the body, and when it is withdrawn the i /
body dies. We cannot but believe that the living substance is the i (
mould on which the grosser material is cast. !;
If, then, the theory of evolution be true at all, it is true of the soul j)
in a fuller sense than of the body. I cannot understand the affirmation j (
that the physical body, which is merely the shell, is evolved from lower j \
types, and that the soul has a different origin ; for, as in the history of j)
the individual we can trace the gradual unfolding of the powers from j (
infancy up to manhood, so in the history of the race we can follow the ] j
development of all the more complex faculties from their earliest j)
beginnings through a long chain of slight variations. In the Genesis l (
of Species, by Mivart, it is contended that while man is physically j j
descended from some lower species, his moral powers cannot have been j)
so derived, because there is not in the lower aimals “ any trace of actions ! (
stimulating morality which are not explicable by the fear of punishment, j [
by the hope of pleasure, or by personal affection.” |)
The question is, whether savages have any moral ideas which are I (
not explicable in the same manner. To maintain the affirmative, it J j
will be necessary to show that they have some absolute intuition of i r
right and wrong. I am not going over this old battle-ground, but j \
whichever conclusion is accepted as to the origin of the moral sense in i )
man, will also, I believe, be found to apply to the brute conscience, j ?
Whatever it is which makes a dog or a man hesitate betwixt a higher j (
and a lower impulse, this is conscience, and there is not, to my mind, j)
much more difference in the expression of this sense between a civilised !)
man and a savage, than between the latter and a civilised dog. \ (
This brings me to some very serious difficulties, and if anything my j |
argument leads me to advance should go beyond the bounds of legi- | (
timate speculation, I have no doubt the cause of truth will benefit in the i (
end by the correction it will receive from you, in the discussion which |)
is to follow. |)
If soul is an organic entity which has been derived from other | j
organic entities of a lower type, it is highly probable that animals and i)
even vegetables have some kind of soul. This belief is tenable on i)
several grounds. Many Spiritualists in the present day believe even | (
that the souls of animals will live again. We have some cases of the | >
ghosts of dogs appearing. Mr. Maitland states, in England and Islam, |)
that in a moment of lucidity he saw the soul of a tree. The power in i \ J
some animals of reproducing amputated members, has been adduced as j) j
proof of a spiritual body, as tending to show how material substances I (
mould themselves upon pre-existing spiritual forms. I might cite i (i
more instances, but must pass on to the consideration of how the belief i; |
that all living things have souls affects the question of the immortality I \ j
of the human soul. 5 j)!
The thought of the countless myriads of forms which there must be i;!
peopling the spiritual world is no real difficulty, if we think of it in I) I
connection with some facts in the material universe. Number has no j (j
relation to infinity. If we reflect upon the number of highly organised j > j
forms, the mortal remains of which are preserved in a lump of chalk |) |
or coral, it may aid us to find space in our imagination for their j J j
souls. But it is not necessary to believe that all souls live for ever. i) |
The fact, however, that a future existence is denied to the souls of m
the lower animal creation according to my theory, must throw some | J j
doubt on the alleged necessary immortality of the human soul. It is I /!
quite possible to conceive of this life as the embryonic stage of the
soul’s existence, to regard death as the birth of the soul into its real
world, to suppose that it will run through a given period of growth
and development in the spiritual world, and then be dissolved and go to
form the pabulum of other and higher spiritual forms—thus completing
the analogy with the processes observed in the material world. This
theory, I say, is quite thinkable, as also the Buddhist theory of ultimate
absorption into the Deity.
If we consider that our individuality is only made conscious by that
which differentiates us from our surroundings, we come near to believing
that conscious individuality will end as soon as we are in perfect har¬
mony with the divine will. If we can imagine a state in which two
beings were in absolute and perfect sympathy with each other and their
surroundings, it would be no mere figure to say that they were one.
Swedenborg held the belief that societies are formed in the next world
by the law of affinity, in which the wills of individual members are
expressed as it were synchronously and in the same act, their thoughts,
perceptions, and acts being as those of one intelligence. I am ignorant
of the views of the Theosophists on this matter, but I hope we shall
hear something of them to-night.
Before concluding my remarks on the connection between psychology
and evolution, I would refer to the New Testament teachings about the
soul. Every Spiritualist must regard them, and especially the words
of Christ Himself, as a high (if not the highest) authority which can be
brought forward. There has been for many months past a lively con¬
troversy carried on in an orthodox religious paper, the Christian World,
in which one of the combatants maintains that “ conditional immor¬
tality ” is a distinct tenet of Christ’s doctrine. It is true he takes the
view that it is conditioned by the acceptance or non-acceptance of
Christ as our Saviour. Although I should find it difficult to believe
that a difference of opinion as to the meaning of Christ’s life and
mission, could constitute either a barrier or a passport to heaven, I am
free to admit that there is some force in the other part of his argument.
The following passages, taken together, are, I think, presumptive
evidence that the doctrine of unconditional immortality is not taught
in the New or Old Testaments.
(1.) “ For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world
and lose his own soul ? ” (Matt. xvi. 26.)
(2.) ‘fFear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill
the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and
body in hell.” (Matt. x. 28.)
(3.) ‘‘If by any means I may attain unto the resurrection of the
dead.” (Philip, iii. 11.)
(4.) “ The soul that sinneth it shall die.” (Ezek. xviii. 20.)
(5.) a Let him know that he which converteth the sinner from the
error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multi¬
tude of sins.”
(6.) “And this is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life
and this life is in His Son. He that hath the Son hath life, and he
that hath not the Son of God hath not life.”
Looking at the whole of the Apostolic teachings, as well as those of
Christ Himself, in a wider view than that which usually obtains, I see
much to favour the belief that “ salvation ” meant saving the soul alive,
and not saving it from eternal torments.
I submit, in conclusion, (1) that the theory of evolution, if true at
all, is true of the soul primarily, and only secondarily of the body;
(2) that it is quite compatible with natural and revealed religion, and
with the facts of psychology ; (3) that it should modify some articles
of the Spiritualist creed, especially those which concern the soul’s origin.
HUMAN LIFE.
Between two worlds life hovers like a star,
’Twixt night and mom, upon the horizon’s verge;
How little do we know that which we are !
How less what we may be ! The eternal surge
Of time and tide rolls on, and bears afar
Our bubbles ; as the old bursts, new emerge,
Lashed from the foam of ages, while the graves
Of empires heave but like some passing waves.
Btbon.
Herb Christian Reimers will read a paper on “ Objections to Teach¬
ings in Connection with Spiritualism,” at 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Hackney Downs, London, E., on Monday evening next, at
8.30 p.m.
The Quarterly Review on Scientific Dogmatism.—“A dogmatic
habit of mind was till lately the special reproach of theologians. It is a
fault of which they have had occasion bitterly to repent, and their
temper at the present time is apt to be only too apologetic and cautious.
But the dogmatic energy which has thus disappeared from their minds,
seems to have been transferred—perhaps by some application of the law
of conservation of force—to the minds of men of science, and Professor
Virchow has to address to his brother professors a rebuke which a genera¬
tion ago would have been deemed appropriate only to hot-headed
divines.”—“ Scientific Lectures, their Use and Abuse,” Quarterly Review,
January, 1878.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
W.—As pointed out a year or two ago in this journal, the experiments of Mr.
Earl Bird made known that sewing a medium’s coat sleeves together behind
his back, without also sewing together the edges of the coat here and there
in front, was no test at all. So far as a few of the recent reports made tho
proceedings known, this precaution appeared to have been neglected, there¬
fore your letter was printed. Beyond this, we see no reason for giving space
to allegations about what conjuring tricks a man says he can perform,
because, without the performance of them before the committee, and tho
publication of the method of doing them, it is waste of time to give attention
t<j such statements, as well as to write them.
March 15, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
' who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn (from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s,
PLANCHETTE'; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S.' This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for Inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,ialso about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s. ,
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals twere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is iilustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the msdiumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of ajtrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Orookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
hook consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiralu n-
ally through the mediumshln of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. cs.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III. „ .
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. ,, V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the P
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , . ...
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life or a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Cri
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
s. d.
ople
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
J, <7;
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .... 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Tbs Spisiiuaust Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . so
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 o
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hlan and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A, Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of ConfUcius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind!; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes: or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . • . is 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. Is. 6d.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
Is.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D. Gunning. Od.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
Hallock. Soiled, Is.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholic
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut, is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow,
ed.
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. H. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper, is.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate 'description oj Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob and Otheb
Obsebvebs in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, fr.s.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-coneeived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison's opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion dow tnon-
Spiritnalistio throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-taming and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the anthentioity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged ids task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Is., post free, or 500for Is. Qd., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
delnged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the medinmship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 68., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Fart 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 6.30. Evening special at 7.30.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James's-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George's-
road.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usuallv tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of lbs lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. All cm’s, l,Ave Maria lane, London,
E.O.
Itr
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1878.
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATLTIE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
EDO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe &uit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth centuiy
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparative^ unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
Increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.'’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY
KNOW.
WANTS TO
'NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
^ “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this alter
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
“Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.’’
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from whichit is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blooa Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Famfly Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
E
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my/friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which yon can make whatever use you please.— I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.’’ Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Exo's Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent/or Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 1 RUE DE
LA PA IX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
‘ Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor 3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howiing Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. "Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-betcegung.—17. "Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers —
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblyaws.'
21 The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—28. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony's Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book In a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads.—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched In “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-streel). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits Is the Turk's account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them Is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘ a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); A.M. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.ji. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From TJie British Journal of Photography,
“ The Lory Lays Include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From J7ie Dublin University Magazine,
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photograpnlc and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility or versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorons mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison's Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour ana satiric pdwer, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji at Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author It is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
Fsom The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-boos elegant In Its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none."
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the dally Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is * How Hadji A1 Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the typo
Of Mrs. Hemans's or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of Itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit ana humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
ana which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
irsyt member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound In cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, pnee 7s. Gd., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great RusseU-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor qf
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I;—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Tntthfulnees of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of SusoeptibiUty—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyanoa in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—-Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of It—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling's Method ana its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid's Hypnotism
—The Author's Experience—Importance of Perseverance—Tne Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—CoL Townsend—Fakcers—
Extasls—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet's Extatics—Visions of the S il ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerlsm—Progress of i'nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There arc Cases in which these Act.
and other* in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:— Action of Magneto Cirstala. etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle it Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Meamer. or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Pluydological. Therapeutical,etc.—Treatment oi Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Suh'ect—Effects of Odyle—Somnani
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hlnte—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Studeuti—Opposition to he Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis's Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced uy Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley's Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Oases—
Eight out of Nino Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion In the Sleep—Phreno-Mesinerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance In the Sleep—Cases Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley's Case of Retrorision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasls — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Kussell-atreet, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bbvbridgi ft Co., at th«
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood's Rents, High Holbom,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allku, Aid
Maria-lane, London, EO.
