Registered as a Newspaper.
Sjvff) OS* f^YC&O^OGUd^ ^Ois{>fd^.
_  mnu^jb- Mtjr S^intuali^m m ffixmt   
No. 380. (Vol. XV.—No. 23.) LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER. 5, 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
JAIES IALTBT,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
 8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W. 
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS.
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
IESIERISI, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together
the results of his own experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should be treated; and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to the progress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
[he Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE THE0S0PHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted, by H. 3?. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIBGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of * The Theosophist ’ ” at the above address.
Just Published. A Catalogue of a curious and interesting
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
ON MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT, PSYCHOLOGY,
And other Kindred Subjects. Posted Free on Application.
POBTY THOUSAND OF STANDARD BOOKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION ALWAYS ON SALE.
Libraries and Small Parcels of Books Bought or Exchanged.
CHARLES LOW, BROAD STREET, BIRMINGHAM.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 5, 1§79,
Just arrived from America. A NEW BOOK by
EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
MR. ■ C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At homo daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings'froni 8 o clock for' reception of
friends.
Its Inhabitants, Nature, and Philosophy.
Price 6s. Gd., post free. Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. fid. Trubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Sjjiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and setting
forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The KEY. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spmtualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . . His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mail
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. fid.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and; other painfuT malailics,' is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR- OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
1C4, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. "Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR. A. H. FURMAN
(Medium of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
HOME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eigh
o’clock, at his Rooms
26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON
Mr. Firman will be at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 6, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings.
lYrOTIOE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
_p| NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
MISS K. S. COOK S private and free
dark and slate-writing seances are held every
Tuesday evening at half-past seven, at 33, Museum-
street, Holborn, tinder permission of Mr. C. Blackburn.
Admissions obtainable only by invitation from Miss
Cook, 03, Eleanor-road, Hackney, London.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to ciicumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.ru.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square.
■m/fTRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
jJI.J. of the Fox Sisters, of New York City, U.S.
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday,
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to io, either at house of party or at Mrs.
Kune’s rooms, must he made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
pH|ARACTERS FAITHFULLY
V_^ DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d:,
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
If ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
JLVi OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. I'/ie Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
eJA5
Ji, to tif to Sci^o^ attd It^ics al SpititeaUsm,
No. 380.—VOJL.UJVIE FIFTEEN; NujVIBEE TWENTY-THI\EE, .
LONDOIST, FRIDAY,
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence.
10s. 10d. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia. Duke Of Leuchtonberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Yon Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.C.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President, of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert'S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislihgbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg. '
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Yon Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Tries te.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.R.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. 0. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sc;., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel.E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
' Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Rue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Jlanner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Keligio-PhilosophicaT
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rnHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C,
DECEMBER 5tli, 1879.
A “NEW DEPARTURE” IN SPIRITUALISM.
The want of a broad field of novel research in
l/j Spiritnalism is now more generally felt in England
m than in the-United States, the variety of phenomena
i j at present observable in this country being so limited
|(I and so completely examined. A sameness in the
|)| physical phenomena presented by the chief mediums
; 1 in London is the distinguishing characteristic ; nearly
|/| all give stances in the dark, and obtain direct
j<| voices, movements of solid objects, and spirit forms
j) | materialised at half length, under excellent test con-
ifi ditions ; also, in a few instances, cabinet seances are
pi given, usually under unsatisfactory conditions,
j(i injurious to the mediums and objectionable to the
pi witnesses. The powerful daylight manifestations,
I | once common through the mediumship of Mrs.
| | Mary Marshall or Dr. Slade, are unknown now in
|;| London, and would make the fortune of any medium
j/j who could present them.
One reason of this sameness is that new mediums
I develop their powers, as a rule, in the presence of
j\j their predecessors, spirits, mediums, and sitters all
| (| treading blindly in the old path. A new medium
j(| usually presents at first half-a-dozen different pheno-
pj mena in their incipient stages; he and the sitters
| (| foster such of these as they have seen elsewhere, the
I p spirits enter the same groove; thus novel develop-
111 ments are nipped in the bud, an uninteresting same-
jd ness being the result. One advantage of all this
|) | may be that as the mediums in London who present
| (| the same phenomena are now becoming too numerous
1) for the demand, the larger provincial towns which
| (| have long been short of mediums may possibly receive
|) | the permanent benefit of the professional services of
j(| those who have not an old-established connection in
n| the metropolis. Meanwhile, there is a general want
](| in London of strong daylight manifestations, and of
i) j other phenomena common enough in the United
| (I States.
Public attention in this country is more and more
Kj turning to the subject of spirit identity, and good
|) | test mediums who can give evidence in this direction
m are in demand in excess of the supply.
All these conditions of demand are likely to equalise
|j themselves by a process of natural law, but a little
j) j mental exertion on the part of Spiritualists at large
I (| could give a turn and a direction to the movement
i j | far more beneficial than can be brought about by the
j(j unguided operations of blind change. New observers
m might easily and rationally admit the reality of the
Kj manifestations now most common, yet deny that they
m come from the spirits of their departed relatives.
|\| This holds good even in stances where the names of
|)i the departed are given, for nobody knows to what
|)| extent long-forgotten thoughts and names of persons,
! ’ '• once known to the inquirer, may or may not reprod uce
266
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 5, 1879.
themselves through the organism of a psychic sensi¬
tive seated near him.
But in the case of death-bed apparitions, like those
seen by Lord Brougham, Lady Beresford, Madame
Aksakof, and scores of others, no such influences come
into play. No medium is present, and the observer
knows nothing of the death until the spirit of the
departed brings the news himself, and in some cases
gives details. Occasionally, three, four, or five per¬
sons see these apparitions at the same time, and
sometimes the dying person tells several friends
around his bed that in the spirit he has seen his dis¬
tant relatives. In cases like these there is no ques¬
tion as to the fact of spirit identity, and what is
wanted is to strengthen the links in the chain by
which these spontaneous phenomena are allied to the
manifestations common at spiritual seances.
Spontaneous apparitions are sometimes mate¬
rialised, visible to everybody; in other instances
they are invisible to all the company but a sensitive,
who recognises them while in a state of trance or
clairvoyance. In both classes of cases the appari¬
tions are real, because they are the first to bring the
news of the death of their bodies, which in some
instances have been laid away for weeks in the
grave.
When an apparition is seen at or near the moment
of the death of the body, the. chief condition is that
when the spirit is seen in one place the body is in a
state of quiescence, trance, or stupor at another; in
fact it is a materialisation seance with a long distance
between the cabinet—the bedroom of the dying
person—and the observers of the spirit form. An
examination of the evidence about these apparitions
reveals that the death of the body is not necessary to
secure their presentation; indeed there is evidence
that in states of trance and of easily induced mesmeric
sleep the spirit can sometimes leave the body, and
present itself to observers in a distant place. Here,
then, is a field in which Spiritualists and mesmeria#
may work. Experiments in sending the spirits of
mesmerised- sleepers to psychic sensitives at a distance
are likely to develop the power of establishing com¬
munication between distant places at far less cost
than by intercontinental telegraphy, whilst at the
same time they will strengthen a weak link in
the chain of presumptive evidence that the
phenomena presented through mediums are in some
cases due to the presence of spirits. The theoso-
phists, in attempting to produce phenomena by the
unaided power of their own spirits, break one of the
conditions under which manifestations are ordinarily
produced at spirit circles ; that is to say, at seances
the phenomena are strongest while the mind of the
medium is in a negative state, and at rest; whereas
the mind of a man who attempts to produce the
same results by will-power is in an intensely active
state.
The chief impediment to the prosecution of such
experiments is, that for the last two years, as at
present, no professional mesmerist to whom the
public could go at any time to witness old and new
experiments with sensitives has established himself
in London. In the new book, Spirits Before our
Eyes, Mr. Harrison narrates in detail how Mr. Loomis,
before departing for America, tried an experiment for
|| him, by mesmerising Mrs. Loomis, and ordering
! her spirit, or one of her spirit guides, to go
| to the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, a mile
and a half off, and produce there whatever effects
| might be possible. The mesmerised sleeper told in
| w7hat room in the house Mrs. Gregory was seated,
j)j also that she had one person with her, and that she
'jb (the spirit) had given Mrs. Gregory (who knew
Kj nothing ofkifejhe experiment in progress) so severe a
m pain in tlmarm that she had spoken of it to her
k| friend. All this proved to be true on inquiry an
|)i hour afterwards. The same work contains other
1| cases of the kind, also an instance in which small
| solid objects were carried a long distance across an
| intervening sea by the spirit of a sleeping mortal.
\ Therefore precedents exist to indicate that more
| experiments in this direction will not be without
;/[ fruit, whilst the possible prizes are great, namely (1)
|(| strengthening the evidence in relation to spirit
I identity; (2) possibly furnishing a means of pro-
m ducing manifestations ourselves, by ordering the
j>{ spirits of mesmerised sleepers to produce effects
m at a distant spirit circle provided with a
j)| medium en rapport with the sleeper; (3) estab-
jyj fishing a cheap system of intercontinental tele-
j)j graphy, and thereby disturbing the minds of
i)| people in the material world, who have invested some
j)j millions of money in deep-sea cables. An angel
| | might stand before a pig-trough for hours without
i)! awakening the interest of the animals ; but let him
|\| interfere with offal about the eating of which the
|)| aspirations of their fives are concentrated, and they
|)| will take an interest in the presence of the visitor.
j(| Spiritual phenomena could not more efficiently
K| agitate the minds of materialists, than by seriously
fi.j interfering with transactions on the Stock Exchange.
The following narrative, bearing perhaps on the
m present subject, is from Aubrey's Miscellanies:—
“ The following Account I received November last,
m from Mr. Alexander Mowat a Person of great In-
!)| tegrity and Judgment, who being Minister at the
|)| Church at Lesly, in the Shire of Aberdene, was
hi turned out for refusing the Oath of Test, Anno.
|)| 1681. He informs, That he heard the late Earl of
!>! Cathnes who was Married to a Daughter of the late
m Marquess of Argyle tell the following Story, viz.
m That upon a time, when a Vessel which his Lordship
|)| kept for bringing home Wine and other Provisions
|fi for House, was at Sea; a common Fellow, who was
|)| reputed to have the Second-sight, being occasionally
n at his House; the Earl inquired of him, where his
K| Men (meaning those in the Ship) were at that
j)j present time ? The Fellow replied, at such a place,
Ki by name, within four Hours Sailing of the Harbour,
|)| which was not far from the place of his Lordship’s
K| Residence: The Earl asked, what Evidence he could
i>| give for that ? The other replied, that he had lately
|)| been at the place, and had brought away with him
| one of the Sea-mens Caps, which he delivered to his
1| Lordship. At the four Hours end the Earl went
I down himself to the Harbour, where he found the
[ Ship newly arrived, and in it one of the Seamen
] without his Cap; who being questioned, how he came
to lose his Cap ? Answered, that at such a place
j (the same the Second-sight’d Man had named before)
I there arose a Whirl-wind which endangered the Ship,
Dec.
5, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
267
and carried away his Cap : The Earl asked, if he K
would know his Cap when he saw it? He said he j/
would ; whereupon the Earl produced the Cap, and |s
ihe Seaman 'owned it for that, which was taken j)
from him.’J
Perhaps the cap, after an aerial flight due to
natural causes, fell to the ground near the seer.
In conclusion, the point deserves to he strongly j)
urged that henceforth we should do more to direct j\
the course and the character of new spiritual j)
phenomena, and he less ready than in the past to he j s
satisfied with the line they take spontaneously. |)
When new mediumship begins in an individual, a j)
variety of incipient manifestations is usually pre- i?
sented, hut the spirits develop those phenomena only ! \
which most please the sitters or the medium, whilst k
the others die out. It is injudicious to continue the i)
present plan of encouraging the development of i(
phenomena already produced in abundance through j)
old-established mediums. K
THE LATE MR. SERJEANT COX AND MESMERISM.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO MISS
MARTINEAU.”
I see that The Spiritualist, referring to the late |)
Mr. Serjeant Cox, says:—“In the early days of K
mesmerism, and at a time when public ignorance j)
covered the subject with obloquy, he investigated js
that branch of psychology, discovered it to be true, | (
and with unswerving faithfulness fought for it to the i)
last, both in public and in private/’ The writer of jd
the above cannot be aware that Mr. Cox, in his recent j |
work, What am I? under the heading “Healing j|
Power,” positively denies* the existence of the n
power called animal magnetism. In reference to the
case and cure of Miss Martin eau, he says, p. 207, ||
vol. ii., “Mr. Atkinson, who had practised the cure M
with great success in other cases', undertook the
charge of the doomed authoress;” and concluding ;)
thus, “The obvious remedy is to restore the regular ||
and sufficient supply of vital force to enable the K
nerves properly to perform their office; but how j>
may this be accomplished? Medicine cannot doit, \\
for the general tendency of medicine is to diminish i)
the vital force. Medicine was tried with Miss Mar- K
tineau, and failed. She had heard of the many \)
cures effected by what was then called mesmerism, u
and which was generally believed to operate by the ) >
transmission of a magnetic force from the operator to j /
the patient. After a few months of persistent sub- | ^
mission to the process, her incurable malady was re- fl
ffioved; not by the influence of a force proceeding from | >
the operator, but by the continual direction of the k
attention of her own brain to the seat of the disorder, |)
and the consequent transmission thither of an in- j(
creased stream of her own vital force, which enabled j)
the nerves to perform their proper functions and j<
make sound flesh instead of the imperfect substance j)
that was worthless and, because worthless, noxious.” j(
Now this is mere worthless speculation, ignoring the >
wide range of facts observed and experienced in the \\
practice of animal magnetism, or mesmerism, if that j >
term be preferred. 'Mr. Cox terms it artificial som- k
nambulism, which is absurd; for instance, Miss |:
* Mr. Serjeant Cox believed and promulgated the facts of mesmerism. Mes¬
merists differ among themselves in their hypotheses.—Ed.
Martineau was not a somnambulist, and indeed never
went into the mesmeric sleep at all. I should be
glad to give the proofs of an animal magnetic force,
but, to save space, need but refer to Professor
Gregory’s work, and the excellent little work for
beginners by Captain James.
Surely what Mr. Cox termed psychic force is but
another term for vital or animal magnetism; and if this
can influence insensible objects, you cannot exclude
it from influencing, by sympathy or otherwise, the
nervous condition in mesmerism. The speculations of
Mr. Cox seem so contradictory and inconsistent that I
feel somewhat ashamed to notice them. Serjeant Cox
believed in thought-reading; and what is that but the
force from one brain acting like light through a
medium to another brain in sympathy, or rapport,
causing a similar cerebral state, and having a similar
mental accompaniment ?
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Will you kindly allow me, through your columns, to
inform those who have written to me of my intentions in regard
to the Monthly Letter ? I propose to charge the sum of one
shilling for each copy of it, or six shillings for the first half-year,
beginning in January next; but as this, from a limited number of
subscribers, will not cover the expenses of printing, 1 must
further ask those of my friends, who think that my work will be
of some use, to aid it with whatever extra sum they may choose
to give. As I said before, I do not mean to tax myself in this
matter, and if the material burden is not taken off my shoulders
the scheme will be abandoned, which arrangement of my guardian
angels I should not regret, for I am bothered and ill, and only
consented to speak because the duty seemed laid upon me. lu
order to make all things plain, one way or the other, I shall be
glad if every one who wishes to hear me will send a statement of
the amount of their subscription, and the number of copies they
desire to have (without at present enclosing money), to a kind
friend who has consented to act as treasurer for me—“ Godfrey
Blount, Esq., 6, Benet-street, Cambridge.”
If the number be sufficient the first letter will be issued in
January; if not, no harm will have been done.—Yours faithfully,
  J. A. Campbell.
SPIRITUAL PROPAGANDA IN LIVERPOOL.
Sir,—On December 1st last a meeting was convened in
Camden Hotel, Camden-street, to form a society for the propa¬
gation of the truths of Spiritualism in a district of Liverpool in
which it is difficult for the influence of the excellent meetings held
in Berth-street Hall to be much felt.
The project has been warmly taken up by several friends. Mr.
Harper occupied the chair, and was elected president of the new
society. A masterly discourse was delivered by the guides of
Mr. Wright, who for some time will be the speaker for the
society. Mr. Wright and family contemplate coming to reside
in Liverpool shortly after Christmas, and will devote their energies
to the cause.
The society is called “The Liverpool Society of Spiritualists.”
Member’s subscription, £1 per annum. The next meeting will
be held on Monday, December 8th, at eight p.m., in Camden
Hotel, where all future meetings will take place.
George Wharmby, Hon. See.
45, Kensington, Liverpool.
William Lloyd Garrison.—At the funeral of the late Mr.
Garrison, the Rev. Samuel May, Mrs. Lucy Stone, the Rev.
Samuel Johnpon, and Mr. Wendell Phillips delivered addresses;
these tributes to his memory, together with a poem by James
Russell Lowell, have been published by Messrs. Houghton,
Osgood, and Co. The frontispiece is a portrait of Mr. Garrison
from the bust by Mrs. Anna Whitney.—Trubner’s Literary
Record.
268
THE SPIRHTUAEIST.
Dec. 5, 1879.
THE POWER OF EXORCISM.
Mr. James Heaton, of Plymouth Dock, pub- ||
lished in 1820 full details of the case of a boy named j ;
John Evans, who appeared to be possessed by evil j ;
spirits. The doctors could do nothing in the matter. j>
Mr. Heaton and others cured the boy by the com- j |
bined exercise of prayer and iViH-power. A few ]\
similar cases in the district had been cured by “the k
astrological practice of physic/’ which method of h
relief Mr. Heaton pronounced on scriptural principles | j
to be highly objectionable; Nevertheless, in all the jj
cases the cures were no doubt due to the will-power ||
of the exorcists and to mesmeric influences. Mr. j(
Heaton says:— - * \)
The boy lived next door to me, and; as he and his j(
parents particularly recpiested that I would interest j)
myself for his relief, I had a good opportunity of j|
examining the case to my full satisfaction. Knowing
that cases of this kind were subjects of dispute in the |(
Christian and learned world, I was determined to let j>
no circumstance escape my observation or recol- j(
lection which might be of use to satisfy my own j;
mind. I therefore visited the boy several times in a K
day, and ie'que‘ste'd the family to call for me when- j;
ever they wanted help; knowing that while, as a j(
neighbour, I was rendering assistance to a family in j(
tribulation, I should, as an inquirer after truth, gain ])
information for myself. I spent more time and took j
more pains to examine this case, than any other \\
man did, or conveniently could, and kept memo- j;
randoms of all I thought most useful to remember. i|
Imagination cannot conceive, language cannot j;
describe his very dreadful looks,, and peculiarly i;
horrid distortions of cpuntenance. He began to spit k
on every one who took any active part, or whoever j,
pronounced the name of Jesus. He continued dumb; j{
yet the language of his face was very easily under- i;
stood by all those who looked at him. As fast as saliva (
could be secreted, he bespattered us all very freely; /
and showed by his sounds, grimaces, and sprawling, H
in what absolute contempt he held Christ Jesus our
Lord, and every one of us who mentioned His name, j;
This caused some of the company to observe, “ Well i:
may the Scripture call thee an unclean spirit!” k
“ Thou . unclean devil, we command thee, in , the h
name of the Holy Spirit of God, to come out of him, j(
and depart to thy own hell, and trouble him ho !•
more.”
He would sometimes fix his eyes on some part I;
of the room, and beckon as to some one there to j;
come to his assistance, ahd would then make most
vigorous efforts of resistance. “Surely,” said one, f;
“ many evil spirits must be entered into him.” !;
“Whether there be one devil, or seven, or a legion, p
or seven legions of devils,” said another, “ye shall all P
go out;” “ in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ we H
command you to depart out of him.” Every time !;
the adjuration was pronounced he seemed particularly ||
exasperated ; and he put on the greater appearance /
of confidence, and made the most horrible faces, j|
perhaps to frighten us from our purpose. The dumb \l
devil did manage that human countenance with most
astonishing ability,.to show the utmost scorn, hatred,
vengeance, and contempt. His eyes, vdth a dreadful
furious stare,first in one face then in another, displayed
hellish passions indescribable. He gnashed his teeth
and grinned at us most horribly. Frequently he
snapt at us like a tortured dog ; then wrinkling short
his nose, half-closing his eyes, dropping down his
lower lip, and showing as much as possible of his
teeth, he made a scornful sound, like nang, nang,
nang, &c., at the same time looking dreadfully in our
faces, and significantly giving a nod with his head
every time he pronounced his passionate syllable of
scorn.
Having held him on a bed on the ground till we
were weary, we put the sofa in the middle of the
room, and held him upon that. As we had not to
stoop much in holding him, this plan relieved us con¬
siderably. Frequently he strove to bite us, and
directed his principal effort against me. I held him
by the left wrist, and as he had often fiercely snapped
at me, like an angry cur, one of his friends said,
“Ah ! what wouldst thou do to him if thou couldst!”
He looked me up in the face, opened wide his jaws,
beckoned to me with his forefinger, pointed into his
wide mouth, and began to grin and work his teeth.
Every one will understand these signs to signify he
would eat me up. . I replied, “ Yes, I know it, for the
Scripture says, ‘ the devil goeth about as a roaring
lion, seeking whom He may devour,’ ”
We sang—
All power is to our Jesus given,
O’er earth’s rebellious sons He reigns;
He mildly rules the hosts of heaven,
And holds the power of hell ill chains.
In Yam doth Satan rage his hour,
Beyond his chain he cannot go ;
Oar Jesus shall stir up his power,
And soon avenge us of our foe.
While we were singing he made most horrid noises,
and struggled with a Strength which we who felt it
could not blit deem to lie supernatural. Darting the
most indescribably horrid looks, he spat first in one
face, then in another, as fast as he could procure
saliva ; and when this failed him for a few moments, in
the bitterest rage he would thrust out his tongue to
an astonishing length, as though lie were imitating
a serpent with his sting, and‘make a strange sort of
noise; expressive of the most scornful contempt. His
spitting was almost continual, and, although we took
every precaution we could with our handkerchiefs,
we were perpetually annoyed by his spitting in our
faces. He would cunningly look in the face of one
man, collect his spittle, and, in the twink of an eye,
spit it in the face of another. This made us fre¬
quently observe, “Well may the Scripture say,
possessed of an unclean devil.” “Thou unclean
spirit, in the name of the Holy Ghost we command
thee to come out of him.” One would give out a
verse of a hymn, then another would pray; but who¬
ever was most engaged was sure to be in a filthy
condition if the contents of his mouth could be made
to reach him.
As he seemed most sensibly to feel, and most
furiously to resent the adjurations, we adjured very
frequently, in one form or other. When we charged
the evil spirit to come out of him, he would raise
up himself with astonishing vigour, shake his head,
tM. 5; 187^. THE SPt
gnash his teeth, look with diabolical defiance, and
utter a most horrid yell. Sometimes he would turn
himself about as though he were composing himself,
to signify, by his looks and attitudes, “ Here I will
take my rest in spite of you/’ Again, in the name of
Jesus Christ, we should command him to depart, and
he looked the most perfect derision, and loudly
laughed us to scorn. Like men in battle, we became
familiarised with the horrid scene ; we pushed home
the charge, and declared he should soon be compelled
to dephrt. We sometimes urged him to speak, and
rebuked him for making the child dumb, and told
him he did this on purpose to hide himself, but we
found him out, and, in the name of the Lord, he
should be forced to depart. We continued singing,
praying, and adjuring for about two hours. It was
an awful conflict, and what passed in our minds is
indescribable. There was a poor child, evidently
possessed by an evil spirit, and we were calling on
the nanie of the Lord our God, and, in His name,
conflicting immediately with the powers of darkness.
Should we not prevail, how could we retain our con¬
fidence that Christianity was as triumphant over hell
as we had believed; but, by commanding evidence,
we were all fully assured of the truth, of our holy
religion, and the infinite authority of our Redeemer,
therefore we expected to see hell vanquished by the
name of Jesus.
We began our devotional exercises at eleven
o’clock, and continued them till after three, when
some began to feel exhausted with exertion; we then
thought it was proper to break our fast. Some of
us retired for refreshment into the adjoining room,
while the others continued the conflict. As we
refreshed ourselves we deliberated, and our plan was
to return and spend one hour more in the same
manner ; and should not the wicked one be expelled
in that time, each one, in private, should make it the
subject of his prayers, till we met again on Friday
morning, when we would push the conflict till the
victory was obtained. Three of us present had to
preach in the evening, and to disappoint our congre¬
gations would be unjustifiable. While the first of
this party was returning into the room the evil spirit
departed. The boy lay composed for about one
minute, and then rose up, and, with a look strangely
altered from hellish rage and scorn to pleasant com¬
posure, said, “ I am well now !” He had not spoken,
except occasionally, for about a month, but now the
dumb devil was gone out of him, and he immediately
began to join in singing—
Praise God from whom all blessings flow !
Praise Him all creatures here below !
Praise Him above, ye Heavenly Host!
Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.
All in the house were immediately on the spot to
join the glad triumphant chorus. The boy’s mother
was so overcome to see her son standing at liberty,
in his right mind, with his speech returned, and
singing the praises of God, that she fell on her knees,
clasped her hands, looked up to heaven, fell prostrate,
and fainted for joy. It seemed to all the company
present like the great battle won ; and, as with Satan
bruised under our feet, we were stepping on the
shores of Paradise, shouting “ Victory! victory!
through the blood of the Lamb! ” There was not
RITUALIST. 26ft
111 only a child recovered from the devouring lion’s teeth,
||| and a family relieved from the sorest tribulation, but
||! there was disputed truth made evident, spiritual
[(] agency openly manifested, the powers of hell van-
m quished, and the infinite authority of Jehovah Jesus,
||j our Lord, triumphantly displayed and glorified.
High above every name,
Jesus, the great I AM !
Bow to Jesus every knee,
Things in heaven, in earth,in hell;
Saints adore Him, demons flee,
| (| Fiends, and men, and angels feel.
We who had witnessed the relief of the child were
I Vi as fully convinced of the nature of the case as we
K| were of the reality of our own existence. The
1)1 manner of the cure added its corroborating evidence
j(j to all we had witnessed before. We saw abundant
jli reason to triumph in the victorious power of our
| I Redeemer’s name, and were truly thankful to God
j)j that He favoured us with a participation in that
jyj awful yet glorious conflict. The spiritual profit re-
|j ceived was a good recompense for the reproaches
(j previously endured. We served the cause of truth
P| and charity, and while even good men censured,
|(| their God approved, and we were satisfied with His
I: | approbation.
One of the ministers present gave the boy some
pj very suitable advice, exhorting him to sin no more,
i(j lest a worse thing should come upon him; to avoid
pj the company of wicked boys, and to seek the Lord
| J | with all his heart. He was now perfectly in his right
pi mind, and conversed freely and cheerfully. That
pi antipathy to Jesus Christ, and everything sacred,
pi which he had displayed on every trivial occasion,
j)[ went with the spirit which caused his disease. All
|;| that surprising strength which the demon gave him
m he took away when he was dispossessed, and he left
Pj the boy as feeble as a lamb. He was for some days
pj subject to fainting; but this, it was expected, would
I) | wear away as he gathered strength. As, in the days
K of primitive Christianity, the name and power of
Pj our Lord Jesus Christ restored the afflicted child to
;\j reason and to health, we could appeal to the wonder-
pj ing public and say, “His name, through faith in
PI His name, hath made this child well, whom ye see
Pj and know: yea, the faith which is by Jesus Christ
(j hath released this child from an affliction so horrible
pj that many of you trembled to see him, and hath
jjj restored him to health and his right mind.” Those
pj who had censured were dumb with astonishment,
|S| and those who had hoped for salvation gave glory
)j Mrs. Louie M. Lowe, the medium, left Southampton, with
(| Mr. Lowe, last Monday, for Panama, medical advice having
; | been given to the effect that a long sea voyage would benefit her
) j health.
p Among the private mediums in India is one who obtains
>! automatic writing so small, that a microscope has to be brought
\ i into use to enable the recipients to read the messages.
; i The Glasgow Association of Spiritualists are holding an inte-
) i resting series of Sunday evening meetings ^t the Trades5 Hall,
/1 Glassford-street, with attendances varying from 400 to 500. Mr.
/! J. Coates will give two lectures of the December series; Mr. J. J.
)j Morse, of Derby, and Mr. E. W. Wallis, of Nottingham, the
j | remaining two; and by special request Mr. Goates will give a third
\; course of lectures on Phrenology and Mesmerism, commencing
i'i on Monday, December 2.2. A knowledge of Mesmerism is cssen-
) 1 tihl to the study of Spiritualism^
270 THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 5. 1879.
AN EASTEEN STOEY.
There is a tale in the Nigaristan, of Kemal-
Pascha-Zade, that one of the sultans of Khorassan
saw in a dream Mahmoud, a hundred years after his
death, wandering about his palace, his flesh rotten,
his bones carious, but his eyes fully anxious and rest¬
less. A dervise, who interpreted the dream, said that
the eyes of Mahmoud were thus troubled, because
the kingdom, his beautiful spouse, was now in the
embrace of another.
This was that great Mahmoud the Gaznevide, who
was the first Mahommedan conqueror that entered
India, and the first who dropped the title of Malek,
and assumed that of the Sultan in its stead. He it
was who, after having broken to pieces with his own
hands the gigantic idol of Sounnerat, put to death
fifty thousand of its worshippers, as a further proof
of his holy Mahommedan indignation. In the last
days of his life, when a mortal disease was consuming
him, and he himself knew that no human means
could arrest its course, he ordered all his costliest
apparel, and his vessels of silver > and gold, and his
pearls and precious stones, the inestimable spoils of
the East, to be displayed before him ; the latter being
so numerous that they were arranged in separate
cabinets, according to their colour and size. It was
in the royal residence that he had built for himself
in Gazna, and which he called the Palace of Felicity,
that he took from this display, wherewith he had
formerly gratified the pride of his eye, a mournful
lesson ; and, in the then heartfelt conviction that all
is vanity, he wept like a child. “ What toils,” said
he, what dangers, what fatigues of body and mind,
have I endured for the sake of acquiring these
treasures, and what cares in preserving them, and
now I am about to die, and leave them!” In this
same palace he was interred; and there it was that
his unhappy ghost, a century afterwards, was believed
to wander.—The Doctor.
 +  
MATEEIALISED SPIEIT HANDS.
Mrs. C. Luelling, of Milwaukee, writes to The
Banner of Light (Boston), Nov. 15th, 1879 :—
“ My husband visited Dr. Slade with no one present
save a lady friend. The manifestations began with
the usual slate-writing. Yery soon he asked the
question as to who his guardian-spirit might be.
The name William Duelling was written out—this
being the name cf a favourite brother who passed to
spirit-life nearly thirty years ago. A request was
made that his right hand be shown, which was im¬
mediately done, and recognised from the fact that his
thumb was cut off just below the joint. My husband’s
watch was taken from his vest pocket, unhooked from
the chain, taken underneath the table, and soon re¬
turned and placed in his hand; as this was done he
saw the fingers that held it, and the lady present
plainly saw the whole hand ; first it was transparent,
then it changed and appeared like a natural hand.
His handkerchief was also taken from the table by
unseen hands and dropped on the opposite side of
the room ; he saw it pass from the table without
contact with anything visible, all this being done
({ while the Doctor was too far away to even excite
)| suspicion. It was immediately picked up by the
(j Doctor, and found to be tied in several very hard
>j knots. He witnessed a number of tests aside from
| the ones I have mentioned, and was so overjoyed
)j with what he had seen that he wept many tears, not
\ | of sorrow but of gladness.
i: At another sitting a number of hands were shown,
) | different in size and appearance. I asked to see our
)j son’s hand, and immediately one came, the fingers
(j and nails very much resembling his. The hand soon
> | began patting and rubbing my chest and arms, and
(| was delighted, apparently ; the influence, too, was so
) | like his in earth-life that it left no reason for doubt
>| in my mind. Another very remarkable test was
[| given through the slate, in the usual way, excepting
>j that two spirits wrote instead of one, the first filling
jj one-half the slate, then drawing a straight line
11 beneath it, which could be plainly heard, and the other
|! filled the other portion of the slate and signed it
I Julia Turner, which name was recognised by friends
J| present. The other name was that of a man, who
§• was also recognised by friends present. All present
(j who were acquainted with the handwriting of the
>| two spirits declared the writing on the slate to be a
n fac simile of each while in earth-life.”
A NEW MEDIUM.
Mr. Husk, a new medium, is giving professional
jj seances every Friday evening at Mrs. Woodforde’s,
(j 90, Great Russell-street, London. The manifestations
>| strongly resemble those produced through the
>j mediumship of Mr. Williams. The direct voices of
(j the spirits are startlingly similar to those heard in
( the presence of Mr. Williams—so similar, indeed,
) j that it is difficult for the hearer to assume they do
>| not come from the same individuals. “ John King ”
(J said last Friday that it was most difficult for a spirit
j; to communicate through a medium, and that after
(j speaking through Mr. Husk’s mediumship for the
j first time, he (John King) went through most of the
\j pains and experiences of bodily death to re-enter the
j j spirit world.
(i ■ AimV :,k . -i
>i Alleged Pkemonitions op Eire.—Of course it’s only a
/ i curious coincidence, but still it’s puzzling, what prophecies are
(i fulfilled sometimes in the direction referred to. Many old fire-
(i men say that their horses often know when there is going to be a
' i big fire. They are restless for an hour before, standing close up
) \ to the enclosing chains, with their nostrils dilated and their ears
' i pricked up. At every sound they start nervously, and when she
<*| does “strike” (as the boys call the alarm) they start out like
\ j lightning, with as eager a dash as a tiger at his prey when the
j > | bars restraining the beast are withdrawn. This belief is strongly
III rooted in the minds of some of the old-time firemen. It is
j (i within the personal knowledge of the reporter that just before the
i \ i big fire at Tifth and St. Charles streets (Hamilton and the other
i) j stores), a fireman remarked, ‘ ‘ Boys, we’re going to have it soon;
m look at those horses.” And, for a fact, they did “have it,” two
| (| of the brave fellows to the extent of losing their lives. This
\\\ incident was brought to mind by hearing a fireman of No. 6
jji Engine House last night remark with emphasis, “I bet there is
I) i at this moment a couple or more big fires going on not a thousand
ijj miles from St. Louis.” When the reporter got back to the
| \ j office he learned that at the very time the remark was made
i | i there were large conflagrations at Mount City and Dubuque.—
1) j St. Louis Globe Democrat.
Dec. 5,
1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
271
A HAUNTED HOUSE IN SOMEBSETSHIRE.
The Bristol Mercury and Daily Post of last
Friday contains the following paragraph about the
common phenomenon of the haunting of a house in
which a great crime has been committed :—
An example of the amount of superstition excited
in some persons has been lately shown in Somerset¬
shire, in the neighbourhood of Chard. Since the
horrible murder near this place in March last, the
cottage in which the murdered man Churchill lived
has attracted considerable attention. For some time
after the execution it remained uninhabited. It was
then let to a labourer and his family, but the
incomers soon found they could obtain no rest. They
state that the murderess, “ Kitty,” has been fre¬
quently seen to glide about the premises in ghostly
attire, and that old Churchill has been distinctly
observed to look in at the window, with hideous
countenance. This, added to the appearance of
blood on the floor of the room in which the tragedy
was enacted, supernatural movements amongst the
furniture and other articles, and unearthly noises in
the immediate vicinity of the cottage, so unsettled
the occupants that they at last abandoned the dwel-
ing, which is now regarded as “ haunted.”
O' O
FUNERAL OF MR. SERJEANT COX.
On Saturday the remains of Mr. Edward William
Cox, serjeant-at-law, were conveyed to the Great
Northern Cemetery, Colney-hatch, where the.funeral
ceremony took place. According to the wish of the
deceased the proceedings were of a private character,
but despite this there was a very large assemblage of
observers. The procession left Moat Mount, Highwood-
hill, soon after twelve o’clock, and the body was
carried on an open catafalque, being contained in a
solid oak coffin, with silver mountings. This bore a
simple plate, with the age and date of death of the
deceased, and was covered with wreaths and crosses
of white chrysanthemums and ferns. Only one
private carriage followed, conveying Mr. Irwin Cox,
the eldest son of Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Captain
Edwards, his son-in-law, and this was accompanied
by the servants from Moat Mount. At the cemetery
were drawn up a number of other carriages, contain¬
ing several members of the Bar and other personal
friends of the deceased, with several of the late
Serjeant’s tenantry, by whom he was much respected.
The service was read by the chaplain to the cemetery,
the Rev. J. Knight, in the chapel, after which the
procession re-formed, and proceeded to the catacomb,
beneath which the coffin was deposited by the side
of that containing his daughter, and immediately
beneath that containing his mother. Both of these
died twelve years ago. A great many of the
employes of the newspapers with which the deceased
was connected were also present.
Birmingiiam.—Mrs. Groom writes: '“Nov. 25th. 200, St.
Vincent-street, Ladywood, Birmingham. Sir,—Please allow me
to correct a mistake made by ‘ Excelsior,’ in your paper some
two weeks ago, respecting Spiritualism in Birmingham. I have
never taken money in any case, as I wish others would serve the
cause. I know there is need of more help, for I find the advo¬
cates of Spiritualism here have a difficulty in meeting expenses.
—C. Groom.”
SPIRITUALISM IN SWEDEN.
/
The following is a translation from the Aftonblad
(Evening Post) of the 30th October, which is one of
the best daily papers in Sweden. The Englishman
referred to is Mr. W. Eglinton, and the writers of the
article are two eminent professors, both of whom
were entirely sceptical about spiritual phenomena
prior to Mr. Eglinton’s visit.
A much-honoured gentleman has asked for room
in our paper for the following article, which is sure to
be read with great interest by all parties, what¬
ever their more or less well-founded opinions may be
about the subject in question—Spiritualism.
“Everybody has a right to doubt, but to deny without know¬
ledge is a fault.”—Arago.
There is certainly not one of all the remarkable
)| subjects of our day which has been met with so much
11 distrust, and been so much laughed at, as the most
j | remarkable of them all—Spiritualism. But we must
(I own that nothing has introduced so much humbug
\\ and charlatanry as the so-called “spirit phenomena,
)i and it is easily understood why a subject exciting so
j | much interest has been taken in hand by the Bar-
)j nums of our time. One after another of these public
necromancers has been discovered and convicted of
(| fraud ; each time the tale has circulated through the
i| greater part of the newspaper press, often accom-
(1 panied by comments on Spiritualism anything but
> i flattering. The prevalent idea is, to a certain extent,
> | natural that deceit or, at best, hallucinations of some
>| nervous individuals are at the bottom of all spirit
(i phenomena, especially as they seem to be explained
)j by nothing else. “ But there is never a fire without
l\ some smoke,” says a Swedish proverb. We all know
) | that on several different occasions quite competent
(j persons, such as the committee of the Dialectical
> i Society, Mr. Wallace, the physicists Crookes,
(i Zbllner, and many more, have undertaken to examine
j seriously and without any preconceived opinions the
> i inexplicable facts that again and again were occurring,
)j and the decision was that such things really take
j(| place. The investigators were at last quite con-
m vinced that things could happen impossible to be ex-
| \ I plained by the science of our day and quite incredible,
|}| if there had not been indisputable facts to prove
!)} them. Arago says somewhere “that whosoever
] 11 utters the word ‘ impossible,’ excepting in mathe-
| | matics, gives proof of failing judgment,” and all the
j/j remarkable discoveries of modern times prove how
|<| true were these, the learned Frenchman’s words—
|(| Impossibility is comparative. That which is irnpos-
j; | sible for one person, may be within the bounds of
I) I possibility for another; and that which is considered
h| an impossibility in one century, may become an
j)j everyday occurrence in the next. We are proud of
hi the height to which science has been brought; we
j (j are also proud to know that a great many things that
|) | are very easy for us were impossibilities to our fore-
j< fathers; but concerning things which we do not
j>j understand, we are just as ignorant as they.
The cause of what we have just written is some
II j spirit phenomena which have taken place here in
| < I Stockholm, and have been witnessed by the writers
m as well as by many other persons. It is known that
;;; these phenomena generally take place in the presence
272
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 5, 1870.
of spirit mediums. A young English gentleman has K
this autumn visited Stockholm and given a series of [>
seances, and what took place at one of these the K
writers now proceed to state. Still more startling j /
facts than those we are about to relate were seen at js
other stances, but we leave it to those who were then )
prestent to describe what they Avitnessed.
The seances were given at the house of an honoured | >
family here. The room in which they took place j<
Avas closely inspected before the beginning of the
seance, but nothing unusual was discovered. The |(
circle was composed of ten persons, including the | \
Englishman. Everybody sat down at the table, the \(
conversation going on all the time, without any j)
mystical preparations whatever. On the table were i?
placed a guitar, a musical box, and a small bell, all of |)
Avhich had been procured at a music shop in tOAvn. n
All hands were put upon the table so as to form a \i
chain, nobody being able to move a finger without H
his neighbour noticing it. The persons sitting next |
the Englishman were closely observing his slightest J|
movements. The lights were extinguished, but I)
as the adjoining rooms were lighted up, wdiich ' j(
could be clearly seen through the crevices ; (
of the door, nobody could enter the room that K
Avas being used for the seance without being ob- U
served. After waiting for a few moments, the con- n
A7ersation still going on, the things lying on the table k
were beginning to move about. The guitar was n
touched, and, to judge by the sounds proceeding from K
the playing, was hovering about the room near the j)
ceiling.. In returning to its former place, several u
persons Avere lightly touched by it. Then the ||
musical box began playing, and Avas carried over our ]/
heads to a corner of the room, till it finished playing; n
then it came back to the table and began playing u
again. The key Avas to be heard Avinding up the box I)
by itself. At that moment one of the Swedish K
persons present asked if the musical box Avould stop i)
playing, which was immediately done, then to go on {(
playing again very fast. He avas obliged at once, the i)
box playing even much faster than its usual time. K
After the seance Avas at an end, it Avas observed that n
a large sofa standing near the Avail had been moved l\
nearly one yard from its usual place. During all this j)
time the Englishman’s hands were not let "o for one \(
moment. When the candle Avas lighted many things j>
had been displaced in the room.
The great question is now, how are we to explain h
satisfactorily the strange proceedings here related? 1]
The circumstances under which they took place j>
Avbolly exclude all thoughts of necromancy. No If
conjurer would consent to play his tricks without an j)
assistant, or apparatus of any kind, in a room Avhere \(
he had never been able to make any preparations j|
Avbatever, and with both hands held fast. Some K
other explanation must be given : probably long and |>
difficult researches are necessary. By people in ||
general it is considered a great deal easier to laugh |)
at what one cannot understand than to discover the K
cause of it; therefore the greater part choose the i>
former way, although it explains nothing. When K
something strange and inexplicable occurs, the first j)
thing to do is not to find out if it is possible or not,
but to get proofs that it really has been done. If we i)
have tangible facts to put forward, everybody must u
admit tile possibility of the thing, although they
could not explain it. Those only deny the reality of
spirit phenomena who have never examined them,
but profound study only can explain them. We do
not know where we may be led by the discovery of
the cause of these, as it seems, often very trivial
occurrences, or to what new spheres of Nature’s
kingdoms it may open the way; but that it will
bring forward important results is already made clear
to us by the revelations of natural history in all
ages. SIesseA ToRNEbom and Edland.
EXPERIENCES IN THE INVESTIGATION OF
PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
At the last meeting of the Psychological Society,
Mr. C. C. Massey Avas cross-examined in relation to
the following deposition, which he had furnished for
criticism by the members:—
MOVEMENT OF PHYSICAL OBJECTS BY UNKNOWN AGENCY.
(1.) One afternoon, in the autumn of 1874 (the
date can be supplied by reference to my notes), I
Avas present at a stance held at 15, Southampton-
row, Holborn, Mr. Frank Herne being the medium;
15, Southampton-row is not the residence of Mr.
Herne, but he was permitted to hold stances there
by Mr. Burns, the tenant.
We were about a dozen in number. All light was
excluded from the window, one gas burner being
alight when we took our seats round the table.
There were a tambourine, paper tubes, iron
rings, and other things on the table—I think a
guitar.
We all joined hands by gaslight. I sat exactly
under the gas burner, Mr. Herne three or four otf
me to my left. I Avas desired to put out the light.
I stood up Avith my right hand still in my neigh¬
bour’s left to turn the cock of the burner. I looked
round the table immediately before turning out the
light, and saw every one sitting quite quietly, with
hands locked.
Hardly had I turned otf the gas—not having had
time to remove my finger from the cock of the burner
—when tambourine, guitar (I think), and other in¬
struments of noise were apparently snatched up Avith
a great clatter, played and beaten about the room,
knocked against walls and ceiling, instantaneously
and simultaneously. One person, free, could not
have produced the effects, and even if Herne had
been at once released by his neighbours he would not
have had time even to snatch up one of the instru¬
ments, which were thus carried to a distance quite
beyond his reach where he sat, or supposing him to
stand. Time w7as in this case the test. Allowing
all, except myself, to have been accomplices, there
would not have been time, in the inappreciable
interval between my turning off the gas and the
effects produced, for the sitters to have unlocked
hands and seized the instruments. This Avas the
first satisfactory evidence I ever obtained in my
investigations.
(2.) On a somewhat later date than the foregoing
I Avas at another stance Avith Herne at the same
place. There were violent physical disturbances,
but as I did not know all the sitters, I was
ffifl 5, iffp
t IIE SPIRIT TJ A L I B T.
273
going away, as usual, dissatisfied witli tfi'e evidence, |(|
but said nothing. The stahce had been held in the I);
back parlour, and when it was over we all went \(\
through the front room, and out of that down stairs. j)i
I was the last to leave except Herne. Just as I was j \ |
going out at the door of the room on to the staircase 1}
I turned round to speak to Herne, who was following |||
immediately behind me. Herne had not spoken to
me\or done anything to engage my attention or j>j
make me turn. As I turned, I saw a chair in the I; j
very act of being flung (apparently) after Herne j>j
(whose back was turned to it) from near the window. |H
It was in mid air, and fell with some force on the |) I
ground j ust behind him.
(3.) With the medium Slade, I have witnessed jfj
this apparently spontaneous movement of furniture j;j
in broad light several times, but the following are the | i j
most conclusive cases. At New York, on the 8th
September, 1875, I sat with him at his own rooms; |>|
light from the window was freely admitted. There hi
was no one present but Slade and myself. I sat at hi
one side of a small table, Slade on my left at another.
We had some slate-writing, and then Slade’s chair was 1: j
pulled back from the table—he sitting on it about a j;j
foot. His whole person was then distinctly visible to i;j.
me. He sat inclined towards me—one leg crossed li
over the other. I sat in the same position towards |, j
him, and his feet were then about a foot distant from j:j
mine, and the legs of my chair quite out of his reach/ |:|
I then asked that my chair should be moved back j j j
with me on it, in like manner. It and I were almost j J j
immediately drawn back about three or four inches. j;j
This was by broad daylight. i;!
(4.) I sat again with Slade one evening early | j |
in October, 1875, at the same place. On this i;i
occasion I was accompanied by my friend Colonel H. R|
S. Olcott. Three gas burners at full flare made a PI
brilliant light in the room. Colonel Olcott sat at one |; j
end of the table—I on his right, Slade on his left, Pi
opposite me. Opposite Colonel Olcott, on Slade’s Pi
left and on my right, stood an empty chair, at the |||
further end of the table. Slade sat, as usual, with his |, I
legs stretched out towards the sitter on his right Pi
(Colonel Olcott) throughout the seance, which j)i
was chiefly devoted td> si ate-writing. By-and-by the P!
chair opposite Colonel Olcott was flung down, right j)j
away from the,table, a clear space intervening. The |(i
floor was carpeted. I carried a tape measure for the m
purpose of taking distances, dimensions, &c., in these ij
investigations, and at once got up and measured the |)|
distance between the nearest point of the prostrate j(j
chair, and the point, nearest to that, of the chair on |)j
which Slade sat. It was five feet exactly. I resumed m
my seat, and had then, and throughout, a clear Ip
view of the vacant space between the prostrate chair |(|
and the table. I never took my eyes off this space !>j
and the chair. I then asked that the chair might be Kj
picked up and deposited at my side, particularly |q
requesting Hr. Slade not to move an inch from his Kj
position. He could not do so without immediate j)j
observation both by myself and Colonel Olcott. In K
fact he did not. I watched for two or three minutes, j);
Slade and Olcott meanwhile conversing. I then saw Ki
the prostrate chair move a few inches towards t|i
me, and then it was suddenly raised, and placed, Kj
standing, at my right side. I should add that HI
when I took the measurement I * examined
the chair for wire, attachment, or other pecu-
liarity. There was nohe. It was a common
chair, to all appearance. I gave evidence oh my oath
of this fact at Bow-street Police-court, and was cross-
examined upon it by Mr. George Lewis, solicitor for
the prosecution of Slade. I have not been indicted
for perjury! The evidence was reported in the
newspapers as above.
(5.) In the autumn of 1875 I accompanied Colonel
Olcott to Mrs. Young’s, known as the “piano medium,”
in New York. I will give the particulars of what
occurred from my notes, which I have not at present
at hand.
I should mention that of all the above particulars,
except the second cash, I have notes hiade shortly
after the dances at which they occurred. I shall
not be speaking solely from recollection of what
occurred at distant times, v
C. C. Massey.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE PROVINCES.
Lancashire.—In no district has Spiritualism
gained such a strong hold, or been so ardently em¬
braced or so clearly apprehended, as in the manu¬
facturing district of Lancashire. Here, too, organi¬
sation has been carried out upon a large and
comprehensive scale, and the possibility of unity
among Spiritualists has been successfully demon¬
strated. A few years ago a few societies existed in a
moribund condition in different towns, but single-
handed they could do little. However, a few energetic
individuals combined ; a district committee was
formed, and a £500 guarantee fund started, the pay¬
ment to extend over five years. Shares to about
half the desired amount were taken up, and speakers
were engaged to visit outlying districts, and break
up fresh ground. This was found to be far too
expensive work, and fresh plans were tried. A
mission was started ; speakers were sent throughput
the district visiting the different towns, under the
auspices of the committee, holding public meetings
where possible, and at other times chamber stances
and lectures. Many of the local societies became
affiliated with the committee, and the best speakers
were engaged, contracts being entered into with
Messrs. Morse and Wallis for six months to devote
two Sundays and Mondays, and intervening week
nights, to the committee. The societies were thus
greatly benefited, being able, for a small return to
the committee, to receive the ministrations of the
best speakers. But owing to the bad trade which
has affected the district—especially during the last
two years—the funds of the committee have
decreased, consequently their power for good has
been crippled; but the machinery exists, and is in
good working order, all that is required being the
necessary motive power to keep it working.
Manchester.—Manchester may be said to be the
centre of the movement in Lancashire, and has a
flourishing society, which, judging from its last
balance-sheet, is in a healthy condition. The income
has been during the six months ending September
30th, including balance of £8 5s. 7d. from the pre¬
vious term, £36 13s. 0|d. The expenditure has
274
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 5, 1879.
been £29 10s. 9d., leaving a balance of £7 2s. S^d. h
Regular services are held every Sunday afternoon at j)
the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, where large |f
and intelligent audiences assemble to listen to the ! (
different speakers who are sent by the district com- j>
mittee. The society, in return for a half-yearly u
sum of £13, is provided with speakers every Sunday; D
thus, for the nominal cost weekly of about 10s., K
obtaining a continuous supply of good lectures, j)
Many private circles are held in and around Man- k
Chester. A spirit of harmony and enthusiasm pre- |>
vails throughout the ranks, and fresh efforts are ^
constantly being made to spread the truth. A series IS
of Sunday evening services has been started in \)
Salford with every prospect of success. At Pendleton, n
too, a fresh venture is being made in the same k
direction. Occasional chamber lectures have been |)
held at Sale, Gorton, and other outlying districts, and j (
many private families and mediums labour earnestly j j
and with singleness of heart to benefit their neigh- j(
hours, and also to order their lives in harmony with |>
pure moral teachings.
Rochdale.—Rochdale has a good local society j<
and a fine meeting room. Great efforts have been ] j
made during the. summer, and are still being made, j (
to popularise the services, which attract large and j>
respectable audiences. Private circles are held, and \(
fresh mediums are developing. The society is im- ;)
proving its position financially, and increasing the \\
number of its members. A good sphere of useful- |)
ness is open to the Spiritualists in the town, and j<
they are determined to do their best to make their |)
influence felt. Mr. Charles Parsons, the president, is | \
most earnest, and Messrs. Brearley, Firth, and others j)
ably support him in the work.
Heywood.—A few earnest true-hearted men and ]|
women tried to let the light of the Spirit shine in j)
this bigoted town, and the Lancashire Committee |(
seconded their efforts; but after a series of public j)
meetings, culminating in a debate between Messrs. \\
Mahoney and the Rev. Mr. Baitey, the people mostly j)
returned to their old love, and preferred being saved j |
to saving themselves. The few who were caught are ; /
now quietly investigating and enjoying the blessings K
in a quiet wray among themselves, content to wait a |)
more favourable opportunity of storming the citadel h
of materialism.
Bolton.—Spiritualists in this town have been K
apathetic for a long time past, but a revival seems to I)
have begun, for during the last three months the !
meetings have been better attended and a number of j)
fresh members added to the society’s books. Finan- j /
cially, matters improve, and the platform is well n
supplied. There are two local mediums who are k
able to take the rostrum, and others from neigh- >
bouring towns keep up a constant supply of speakers. ]
Good feeling and harmony prevail, and hopes are |>
entertained as to further developments when the |<
better times come.
Liverpool.—Liverpool seems to be behind the j)
age. Considering the immense population, it is |(
remarkable that after Mr. Morse has been visiting |)
the city monthly for several years only about a couple ; (
of hundred persons can be drawn together to hear ;)
him.' Yet such is the case. Although there are a 1
large number of Spiritualists in Liverpool, and many
of them well to do, very little is effected in the
way of public advocacy, and that little in such a
half-hearted way that it were almost better the
whole thing were allowed to drop through until
some enthusiasm and devotion, some earnest zealots
—fanatics if you like—could be found who would
determinedly and perseveringly labour to awaken
the public to an appreciation of the golden truths
and facts of spirit communion. A revival is neces¬
sary. Something must be done to awaken the
sleepers, for it is a positive disgrace to every local
Spiritualist that such meagre, cold, and unimpressible
gatherings should represent Spiritualism. Where are
the soul, the vitality, the beauty, the fire of inspira¬
tion ? Lost beneath the cold respectability and secu-
laristic atmosphere which hangs around the place
and people. In spite of the efforts of the guides of
Messrs. Morse, Wallis, Wright, and Johnson, and the
earnest labours of Messrs. Lament, Shephard, and
the active secretary, Mr. Wharmby, there is a dead¬
weight somewhere which paralyses all their energies,
counteracts their influence, and little or no progress
has been made. Meetings are held regularly at
Perth-street Hall, but few seem to take any interest
in them or the workings of the society beyond occa¬
sionally attending and hearing what is said, and then
walking out as unconcernedly as possible.
Excelsior.
“FREED FROM THE BODY.”
I CURTAIL an account of “Madame Sadou’s Journey
through Space,” from a letter in the Revue Spirite,
for November, 1879 :—
In the year 1868 I was employed at the Perrache
railroad station, at Lyons, when one of my fellow-
workmen said to me, in answer to some observations
I made about Spiritualism, “ Your queer stories
remind me of the stuff that our old housekeeper
talks, &c.” “ I should like to see her,” I said. “ So
you can,” said he; “ come any day you like in the
evening, and you will find her.”
Madame Sadou, for that was her name, told me
that she was sixty-two years of age. Here is her
story:—
“ About twelve years ago, at the Lyons Hospital, I
was dead for twenty-four hours. At the time I died,
there was a lady present for whom I had worked.
She said to the sister who was going to sew me up
in a sheet: ‘Don’t shroud her yet; I know this
woman, and she may well not be dead.’ The sister
replied : ‘ You must see, Madame, that all is over ! ’
‘ I say,’ replied the lady, ‘ don’t shroud her for
twenty-four hours ; if you do, I shall make com¬
plaint.’ The sister complied.
“ I had no conscience at all of what happened
around me. During this time I kept mounting,
mounting, by a ray of the sun, and quite pleasantl}7.
I kept on mounting till I saw the earth blue, like the
heavens, and then I no longer saw the earth.
“ At length I found myself in front of a chapel,
glistening like gold; I had never seen anything like
it on earth. I tried to go inside, but could only get
my left side in ; my right side remained outside the
door. As I was retiring, I saw, behind the door, a
Dec. 5, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
man beautiful to behold ; never had I seen anyone j\
on earth to compare with him. j)
“ I said to him, ! Sir! what is all this ?’ ‘ My | j
child,’ he replied, ‘thou art no longer on earth.’ |)
‘ Where am I, then f ‘ This, my child, is paradise.’ | j
‘Why, then, cannot I enter?’ ‘My child’ (he ||
always said my child), ‘because thou art not suf-
ficiently pure. There is something still on thy con- ||
science, not much. Thou wilt return to earth, where j)
thou must suffer patiently all the ill which will come j;
upon thee. Then, at thy death, thou wilt return jv
here.’ ” I observed to Madame Sadou that paradise, j;
as he called it, is not localised, that it is everywhere, i;
&c. . . ; that this was but a picture, or one of the |;
innumerable typical images that exist in the universe. !)
“ But I saw it all; it was no picture,” replied she \(
sharply. She did not understand me. I had said |)
too much. I had shocked her feelings. She could |(
understand nothing beyond that which had been
shown her. She continued : “ I left that place ; I \l
went further, without knowing who pressed me on, \)
nor how far I went. I found myself in an immense j(
plain, the end of which I could not see. This plain j>
was naked ; no trees to shade it, nothing but a little k
short grass. I saw in this plain a prodigious number j)
of people, all bent towards the ground, which they j(
were vigorously scraping 'with both hands, as a dog \)
does with his paws. I saw priests there of every K
rank, nuns of every description, well-dressed people, j)
and other unpleasant sights. I was stupefied.
“I looked round and saw a fair lady ; she was j)
beautiful indeed ; there is no one on earth like her. K
She did not speak. So I said to her, ‘Madame, who D
are all these people?’ ‘My child,’ she answered, K
‘ you are no longer upon earth.’ ‘ Where am I, then ? j)
‘ My child, this is purgatory.’ ‘ Where, then, is hell ?’ |
said I. ‘ My child, there is no such place; here it is j >
that persons come for repentance. Look you, my is
child, these people had all they wanted upon earth, !<
but they never thought they had enough; they wanted j j
to gather on, to be always gathering ; and they never h
did good to their fellows. For punishment they are jj
sent to dig the earth with their hands.’ Oh! Ire- l<
member all about it. And the lady, holding up the is
two first fingers of her Ipft hand, and stretching out i
her arms, added, ‘ See, my child, those that are down j'
there, far away, have been digging two thousand j.
years, two thousand years/ ”
I said, in answer to Madame Sadou, that purga- k
tory was not there only; that we suffer the punish- i
ment of retaliation; that is, we suffer in the other |
world the trials that we have made others endure in
this, and that, consequently, we shall not all suffer I
the same punishment as she had been shown.
“Oh, but I saw it!” replied Madame Sadou j
again, with vivacity. She could not comprehend; !)
her convictions were fixed ; beyond what she had |
seen was of no account. j)
Her sharp replies to my observations amply h
proved the sincerity of her tale. She wnnt on—
“ The spirit, in the form of a lady, further said: j<
‘ My child, you will go back to earth and rejoin your ||
body.’ I was all astonishment; I thought that I Ni
was in my body; I did not see that I was separated j)
from it. ‘You will go back to your husband. You j<
will have much misery, many trials. Bear all with
patience, even hunger; and after thy death thou
wilt be happy.’ All that she told me has happened.
“ At length I found myself suddenly in my body.
I woke up, or I rose from the dead. At any rate,
when I opened my eyes I saw the sisters getting all
ready for my burial. It was no fault of theirs ; I
was cold, and had given no sign of life. When I
saw my shroud I screamed aloud. I said to the
sisters : ‘ Oh, my God! what are you doing ?’ The
younger sister was alarmed, but the other behaved
quite coolly, and said : ‘ It is nothing, it is nothing ;
we were only getting you comfortable.’ I pushed
away all these signs of death, crying out, ‘ What, then,
is the meaning of all this ?’ One of the two sisters
even pretended to scold the other for having brought
these preparations.
“ My cries were heard. In no time my bed was
surrounded by all the sick people who could walk;
by the doctors, the monks, and the sisters. There
were as many as thirty of these last. They all came
to see my resurrection, and I began at once to tell
them all about my journey that I remembered, and
well remember now. There was there, also, an old
chaplain, who cried out when I spoke of the beautiful
lady : ‘ That was the Holy Virgin who spoke to you/
‘ I do not know whether it was the Holy Virgin,’ I
replied ; ‘anyhow, she was a beautiful woman.’ ”
It was 'on the 15th of September that Madame
Sadou told this to all who would listen to her.
Madame Sadou continued her religious exercises as
usual, and every time she changed her confessor
she told him of her voyage. They wanted to disil¬
lusionise her; but she got the better of them all by
the energy of her conviction. Of course, she neither
convinced nor converted any of them. One day one
of them threatened that he would not give her abso¬
lution if she persisted. “ What!” said she, “ would
you have me disbelieve what I have seen ? Good
morning!” She rose up quickly and left the confes¬
sional. The priest soon called her back.
If this woman’s brain had not been so weak she
would have comprehended the teachings of Spirit¬
ualism ; but she would not be convinced. She died
two years ago ; her neighbours called her the mad
Bretonne. If I subscribe my signature it is not
from ostentation or pride, but simply to certify the
above facts.
My address and my quality as chief of the circle
is given on behalf of your readers who may be staying
at Lyons, without having any acquaintances among
Spiritualists here. Moreover, it is not I who am
president of our group. Our president is M. Chevalier,
of No. 15, Cours Perrache. Your subscriber, M.
Gerentes, who resides at No. 14 in the Passage de la
Scarron, Lyons, is our vice-president. So in lieu of
one, I give the address of three persons, for friends
who are strangers to us. (Signed) Deprele.
Cours Charlemagne, No. 3, & Lyons.
The translator is careful to transcribe these last
few lines, in order to show the friendly feeling that
exists among the Spiriualists of France, which would,
doubtless, be extended to those of other countries.
Scrutator.
TO CORBESPOffDENTS.
H.—Mr. E. D. Rogers, editor of the Spiritual periodical in question, also Mr.
Morell Theobald, Mr. Bennett, and others of them, are “ Christian ” Spirit¬
ualists,
2*76
THE SEIRITITALIST.
Eec. 5, 1819.
MESMERISM and ITS PHENOMENA, I
OR i (
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late 'Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.E.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh \ \
University. • I \
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll. | (
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size i (
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with i (
Spiritualism.\ (
Just published, price 6s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTBIt I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force1 or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis's Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—jMr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII :j—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—^Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—^Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reicheubach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced^—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution —Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Sugget>tion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis's Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—^Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley's Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British Museum-street, London.
(
)
INFOKMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Gralileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Scien/:devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top -surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
. 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8; Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Dec. 5, 1879.
Cloth, small 8vo, price §s.
OTHEK-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting pujiishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Mtiria-lane, |1.C.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 88, British
MuSeum-street, London, W.C.
RE-ENGAGEMENT DESIRED by a
German Governess (dipldmie). French Music
and all branches of an advanced English education;
£80.—Address Fraulein M'dller, at Dr. Galloway, 17,
Spring-terrace, North Shields.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for 1 Jd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
■RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN-
JL\j GEU AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Aslrological
Almanac how published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Groat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p m to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
_L is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossoniere; Paris.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects';
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance.
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
t&E SPIRITtFALIST.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial Svo Cloth, red edges. - Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much a,bout
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“01 Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of. Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mf.' Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVTIL—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profiindis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVI l.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX-—A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists; By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXVi—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street London, W.O
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown Svo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Coi responding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay bn “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Miiseufii-street, London, W.C. '
iii
Rost Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPE^ 's-ARGENT
' CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R: Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirit?
through Kate Fbx, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy,' Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne-—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes— Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall — W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm ,
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. C. LuxmOre, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes. "
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. 0. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardee — Chaseray —-
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Bucnner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune,
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—ThO Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—1
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman— Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences —! The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts. ■
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs' and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FBOM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems wore given.
CONTENTS,
PART L
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song o
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—Vlf.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song"—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer- XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecv uf
Vala—XXVl. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
T) EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JLli psychologiques, fonde par Allah Kardec, ap¬
peal's on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Socieie Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SP]I RITUA*L 1ST.
Dec. 5, 1879.
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
Christmas ^Pudding,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the “World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Eipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verifled
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world."
Stimulants and insufficient
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
'l he Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c,, use
EIO’S EMIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
TjiAGGED, WEARY, AND WORN
JU OUT! !! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which b e did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try END’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Parrasford.”
V GUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in¬
to vention is brought before Ihe public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked ‘‘ENO’S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6tf.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
LANGHAM HALL,
Great Portland Street, London. .
In consequence of the great success which attended
the first meeting held at Langham Hall, on Monday,
December 1st, it has been decided to continue the
Meetings during the following dates for the present
month, the 13th, 15tb, 18th, and 29th. The prices of
admission are 10s. 6d., 5s., 2s. 6d„ and gallery, Is.
Those holding tickets for Concert and Lecture are
entitled to remain and witness the spirit manifesta¬
tions, which are gratis.
Programmes issued at the Hall. Tickets to be ob¬
tained at 26, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.C., and at
the doors.
Messrs. Chapman and Furman wish it to be dis¬
tinctly understood that the prices charged are for the
Concert and Lecture, and the spirit manifestations are
given gratis. W. CHAPMAN, Manager.
26, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.O.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Smg of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song 'of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bemgung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song,—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.  
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
“ T E JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
J_J published every week under the editorship of
Mens. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
The trapped medium;
OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price Gd.;
post free, 6id. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Suffice, 33, Brit'sh Museum-street, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Bough ton, St.
George’s-road.
December, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS,
Spiritualism in some of its Religious Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Principal
Tulloch on Table-rapping: Dr. Nichols—Voices from
the Ages; the Alchemists and their Teachings: P.
Davidson—Philosophical Spiritualism: G. R. Tapp—
The Pocasset Tragedy: J. W. F.—A Catholic Faith.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
27ie “Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . 7 G
The Teacher. „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ III. „ .. .76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. „ V. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .. .20
Death and the After-Life . . . .36
History and Philosophy Of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager
Southampton- uildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
A “ New Departure ” in Spiritualism   265
The Late Mr. Serjeant Cox and Mesmerism. By
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S., Author of Letters
to Miss Martineau     267
Correipondence:—Letters on Spiritualism—Spirit¬
ual Propaganda in Liverpool   267
The Power of Exorcism   268
An Eastern Story   270
Materialised Spirit Hands   270
A New Medium   270
A Haunted House in Somersetshire   271
Funeral of Mr. Serjeant Cox   271
Spiritualism in Sweden   271
Experiences in the Investigation of Psychological
Phenomena:—Movement of Physical Objects
by Unknown Agency   272
Spiritualism in the Provinces  273
“ Freed from the Body ”   274
To Correspondents   275
Paragraphs:—William Lloyd Garrison, 267 ; Al¬
leged Premonitions of Fire 270
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevehidge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London
E.0
