REGISTBEBD is A Nswspabbb.
SK© 03B< ^^YdSOI<OG{ ld®I< ^dl^^ds^.
tt ©Ikst hB xxx iritam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi,Via Della Maltonaia. ROME;
Signor Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont,
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly and Co. NEW YORK:
51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light ” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. SAN FRAN¬
CISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 353.—(Yoij. XIY.—No. 22.) LONDON J FRIDAY, MAY 30, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Materialisation of Spirits 
The Supernatural. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S 
The Divine Afflatus of the Hindoos  
Ancient and Modern Spiritual Manifestations. By Joseph
Beals     
A Psychological Phenomenon .. .. .. ..  
A Letter to a Visitor ..      
A Good Test Seance. By C. C. Massey 
A Remarkable Dream. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S...
Weighing Machine Experiments ..  
Mental Phenomena and Consciousness. By Henry G.
Atkinson, F.G.S 
Mr. Charles H. Foster’s Mediumship ..   
What is Anthropology ? By W. Hitchman, M.R.C.S.
Correspondence—Spiritualism on the Public Platform,
262 ; Spiritualism in Glasgow    
Biographical Sketch of Mr. W. H. Terry, of Melbourne.
By Hudson Tuttle   
Paragraphs—Mesmerism, 265 ; The last Witch-Burning
in Europe .. ..   ..
253
253
253
256
257
257
258
258
250
259
259
261
262
263
26
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
^4 Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics
of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated
Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries throughout
the Globe ; it also has an influential body of readers on the
Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading
and more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in
the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among
those who have published their names in connection with their
communications in its columns are Mr. C. F.Varley, C.E., F.R.S.;
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal
of Science ” (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but has,
up to the present time, expressed no decided opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, President of the Biological Sec¬
tion of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
(1876); Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the
Right Hon. the Countess of Caithness ; His Imperial Highness
Nicholas of Russia (Duke of Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S. ; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dade Owen
(formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples); Baron
Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald Massey; Le Comte
de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly American
Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Parkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Seijeant Cox, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, Presi¬
dent of the British National Association of Spiritualists; the
Rev. J. Tyerman (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.);
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George
Wyld; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory ; the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
kof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order
of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay
(Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. C.
Carter Blake, Doc. S<a., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C, Luxmoore • Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B,
(India); Mrs. Honeywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr,
Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George Stock, B. A. (Oxon);
Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian
Reimers; Mr. William White (author of the “ Life of Sweden¬
borg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S-A.;
Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. C. Con¬
stant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley:
Miss Kislingbury ; Miss A.:Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers ;
Mr. J. N. T. Mathese; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr.
W. Lindsay Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other
ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom,
10s. lOd.; in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly pn sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyaid, E. C.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence : Signor G. Parisi,
Via Della Maltonia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege : 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne : 96, Russel-street. Shanghai : Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal
Office. Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Gkfden-street.
Washington : No. 1910, Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualis
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Stre et.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours
of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Sat¬
urday, when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and
6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR JUNE, x
Monday, 2nd.—Fobtnightlx Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Mr. G. F. Green, “ Spiritualism
and its Teachings in their Relation to Prob¬
lems of Government.”
Friday, Sth, and each succeeding Friday.—Experimenta
Research Committee at 6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, XOih.—Soirde Committee at 6.30 p.m.
,, ,, Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
,, ,, CouNcrL Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Monday, \Wi.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Last of the Season. Paper, “ Review of the
Session.” By the Rev. W. Stainton Moses
M.A.
Friday, 20th.—Library Committee at 6 p.m.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akebman Road, Bbixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books
on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rales of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF IN¬
QUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM
Quebec Hall, 25, Gbeat Quebec Stbbet,
Marylebone Road, London, close to Baker Street Station.
A FLORAL'DISPLAY AND SALE OF USEFUL AND
FANCY ARTICLES
Will be held, D. V., in the above Hall,
On Wednesday and Thursday, June 18£A and \§th,
Under the kind patronage and assistance of Mrs. Fitz¬
Gerald, Mrs, Schweizer, Mrs. A. Maltby, Miss Dickson, Mrs.
Hallock, Mrs. Carshore, Mrs. Slater, Mrs. Fletcher, and other
ladies.
The object being to clear off a small standing debt, also
to assist the members in improving the 'accommodation of
the Hall, and in spreading a knowledge of Truth.
Gifts of any form, in money or articles, will be gladly re¬
ceived by any of the Ladies, or J. M. Dale, 60, Crawford Street,
Bryanstone Square, W., who will also furnish any further
information desired.
Open each day from 12 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission six¬
pence.
British museum lectures.—dr.
Cabteb Blake will LECTURE in the Galleries of Natural
History and Antiquities, on Tuesday, May 27; Thursday, May
29; Tuesday, June 3; and Thursday, June 5, from 11 to 1 o’clock.
Tickets 2s. 6d. each Lecture, or 7s. 6d. for the Course.
Address Dr. Cabteb Blake, 28, East Street, Queen’s Square,
W.C.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the
city, by an English brother. The apartments can only ac¬
commodate four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3
per week each; or, for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two
occupy one room. Address, S.T., care of M. A. Mallett, 3,
Rue de la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St. James’*street; and Mr. Boughton, St.Gecfrge’s-rd.
A SELECT CIRCLE, holding Stances for
physical manifestations once a week, requires a few
more members—especially ladies. For particulars, apply, to
R. S. T., care of Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, TP.
Pbesident—Mb. Sebjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1876, for the pro*
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent,
that move and direct the material mechanism of man. Com¬
munications as to alleged phenomena are invited by the
Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings with¬
out subscribing to or recognising any particular theory or
belief.
All particulars may he obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the -120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From tho 85th thousand,
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 8d. Tettbneb & Co. London.
Cloth, small 8vo., price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use in the
divine economy for all varieties of men and women; and
that there is not any one, however perverse or insignificant,
who is not created for some function in universal humanity.
As to the question of everlasting punishment, Mr. White
maintains an original position. If asked whether he believes
in the everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers. Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he answers.
No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish which exist
as to the future life arise from the constant assumption that
the everlasting punishment of sin is identical with the ever¬
lasting existence of sinners. Sin or transgression has been,
is, and ever will he eternally punished; torment and misery
are everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing; and pre¬
cisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or
later, cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility of
everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
"P APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
JLAj AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions
of events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a
large hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lanca¬
shire quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the
British armaments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by
which any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth
gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO in
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filatete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PS YCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly
Journal devoted to the investigation of the unexplained
phenomena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandbe Aksakop,
and contributed to by several German and foreign men of
science. Price Is. monthly.—Leipsio: Oswald Mtjtze.
London : The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BIRKBEOK BANK. —EstabHshed 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 till 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with fttll particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 30, 1879.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
PBESmBM'T.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington,
S.W.
Vice-Pbesidents.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-
buildings, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Ohurch-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13,
■ Alexandra-road, .South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park,
W.
Couitoil.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper,
Barkas, T. P.," Central Exchange, Newoastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road,
Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 5, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 69, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs, D. G., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road, New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square,
W..
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lampart-hall, Northampton.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas, 71, Greenwood road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree terrace, Uttoxeter road.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish road, Blundel Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassettroad, Dalston, E.
Pearson, 0., 16, Harpur street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgill, W.C., 3, Blandford square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Mornington road, Regent’spark.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum Villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, K. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolf crescent, Maida vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Ann street, Cavendish
square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1,
Hereford square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme square, Bayswater, W.
Withall,MissH., 1, The Elms, St. John’sroad, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’sroad, Brixton, S.W.
Hoxobabx Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford square, South Kensington,
S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobold, Esq.
Secretary.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburgh, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha' a Bahdj6,
Capoussou, Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at
Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach,
Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gueldenstubb, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde deTorres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Piospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
The Baron von Dirchinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme_. d@ Vleh, 1, Reich Strasso, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mrs. CbraL. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Treeorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-
TStef.
Bpboo PearychandMittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude, Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 46, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg
University, Germany.
W, Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C.Wittig, Esq.,Kornerstrasse, 2b,Leipsic, Germany.
W.H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, South Melbourne,
Victoria, Austra ,ia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Ren Neuve, des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy,
1, Paris,
Epes Sergent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New
YOrk, U.S.A.
M. LeonFavre, Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Phila¬
delphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de
1’Europe, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 286, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck,
Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue de Palais, 137, Schaerbeck, Lex-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cavuga Co., New York,
U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel del’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-
square, London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste,
Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
IsaacB. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Hqnore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah,U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eporjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaje,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr, J. H., Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near
Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Berks T. Huchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavillion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H, J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 46 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. CharlesFitz,
121, Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Prices,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Bnxton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M.
Anton Prochaszka, Josefstaadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse,
23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquiries into Spiritualism. Hon.
Secretary, T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.—Mr. A. J. Smart, 22,
Moira-place—Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola Cerventes, 34, 28, Madrid.
President—El Visconde de Torres-Soianot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Maxicana. Presi¬
dent—Senor Refugio T Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo,
Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Columbia, South America.
President—Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading room and library, with a secre¬
tary in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries.
Seances can be attended by recommendation from a member.
For terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of Truth
—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—V. Love
and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII. The Burial of
Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda—IX. The
Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope for
the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The Eagle of
Freedon—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII.
“ Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX
“ I still Live”—XX. Life—XXI. Love-XXII. “ For a’ that”
—XXIH. Words o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
prophecy of V ala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle
or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The
Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Barth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price
6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C., Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MR. O. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 till 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses in
London or the provinces. Address, 92, Caroline St., Notting¬
ham.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and
Healing Medium. Any form of Mediumship deve¬
loped. Ladies and children healed by Mesmerism. Terms
according to circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from
1 p.m. to 5 p.m. 90, Groat Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O. •
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Frank¬
lin, gives seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Bruuswick-
square, from 2 to 6, every day except Sunday, and every
evening from 8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engage¬
ments can be made by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Handwriting, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients, and may be consulted daily
from 2 till 6 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTS and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and age re
quired. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism, Specialities.
At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients treated at their homes
when desired. 99, Park-street, Grosvenor-square,London, W.
lyTEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
If I VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Groat Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id. j Post free for lid.; or six copies post free for
6d.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
PARED WITH MODERN SPITITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It
shows (we think successfully) that every form of medium-
ship, now so familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical
records of identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, ‘consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, ana their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrow¬
ing parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: the oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Oolby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac
B. Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor ; aided by
a large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical, and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c. &c. Terms of subscription, in ad¬
vance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
IOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodgings on
J?
11 moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone
mo THE BENEVOLENT AND WEALTHY.
1 Years since a lady invested her all in Egyptian Bonds,
then paying 7 per cent., now paying 5. At the age of four¬
score, with a (husband dependent on her, her small income
is reduced to £49 a year. A lady friend will have much plea¬
sure in giving personally, or by letter, full particulars of the
case. Letters in the first instance to Mrs. Vernon, 353, Ful¬
ham Road, West Brompton, London, will treat with immedi¬
ate attention.
II
<5)
<v
Gyp
•l9
J[ ^airb nf i||" ^ijagrijss of fc ^^tojujo aitb ^lf|iijo of J|tttjiimilism.
No. 36s.—Volujvie Fourteen; Number Twenty-two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 30 th, 1879.
THE MATERIALISATION OE SPIRITS.
An interesting article by Mr. 0. 0. Massey, in another
column, describes a good test materialisation seance with Mrs.
Elgie Corner (Florence Cook).
Frpm evidence which has long been accumulating, there is
reason for supposing that what takes place at such stances is
this :—A phantom form, the duplicate of the medium and her
clothes, c6mes off from the medium, and is at first not visible
to normal eyesight. It gradually clothes itself with more
matter from the medium, until a solid head, shoulders, arms,
and hands are formed, and at this stage we have the living
half-length forms which sometimes show themselves at dark
circles, while the hands of the mediums are held. They are
covered with common-place drapery, as at the Amsterdam
seance. By a continuation of the process a duplica¬
tion of the full-length form of the medium is produced;
both forms are solid to the touch, and both, we think,
half the normal weight of the human instrument. The process
may then go on, until most of the weight is in the spirit form,
and the medium gradually becomes more ethereal, then in¬
visible, and finally is altogether amalgamated with the
materialised spirit, which at this stage is but the entranced
medium. This accounts for the occasional freeing of mediums
from bonds, without the cutting of the knots or ligatures. The
whole process sometimes goes on with such rapidity that the
observers consider the manifestation to be merely the freeing
of the medium from bonds in the twinkling of an eye. In
the case of death-bed apparitions, probably the same changes
take place. The spirit, in a distant house, draws enough
materiality from its dying body to make itself visible.
THE SUPERNATURAL.
BY HENKY G. ATKINSON, E.G.S.
I think that the general idea that Spiritism is super¬
natural is a great mistake. If men have souls, and these souls
are the real men, and can exist independently, and prove the
fact that they do exist after the body is dead and is lost in the
elements, feeding the grass or cast about by the winds as the
case may be, surely we have a fact in nature recognized by
the senses and not a supernatural exhibition. It may be
a puzzle beyond our comprehension, but what of that ? Con-
ceivability is not the criterion of truth. I cannot account
for instinct, for the sense of distance, for the light passing
through the window on to this paper, for the feeling of the
pen as in the hand when we know that it is no such thing, but
a sensation of the brain : yet without the illusion I could not
write these lines; it is all illusion and incomprehensible, yet
not supernatural. If I possess or am a living, independent,
and immortal soul, be it so; and if it can appear in our rooms
and materialize itself (or rather, as in life, envelope itself in
matter even to the clothing) the wonder is but in the novelt3r,
for the growth of a blade of grass is just as much a puzzle.
• It is rather that the facts of Spiritualism go to show that that
is perfectly natural which has all along been referred to the
supernatural, and, in fact, that the idea of the supernatural
is but superstitious nonsense.
John was a nice boy. He prac-ticed self-de-ni-al. Do you know what
it is to prac-tice self-de-ni-al? No, you say. Well, I will tell you. John
and his kind aunt went to church one day. Aunt Jane gave John a dime
to put in a box for the hea-then. She also gave John a loz-enge. John
liked loz-enges. Some boys would have ea-ten the loz-enge right up. But
John did not. He prac-ticed self-de-ni-al. He put the loz-enge in the
box. He kept the dime in his pock-et. So you see, by prac-tic-ing self-
de-ni-al and going with-out his loz-enge that day, John could buy all the
loz-enges be wanted the next day. He could buy a top and some mar-bles
also. Now you know what self-de-ni-al is.—Boston Transcript.
II or! THE DIVINE AFFLATUS OF THE HINDOOS.
|;| The following interesting narrative is from the Dublin
j 11 University Magazine of December, 1849 :—
m THE,ORACLE OE RAMESHWU.BU..
! j From the established village oracles we advance, by an
j)j easy gradation, to another development of the same system,
! 11 where, conducted with more order, and clothed with more
|)| dignity, it exerts a proportionate influence on the middle and
| (| higher orders. This development is to be found in temples
j)| of a superior order, which have attained a celebrity for the
I (| oracular or sanatory afflatus supposed to be locally confined to
| j | their precincts. They are visited by many from afar, have,
! (j in consequence, grown rich, and are conducted with a certain
i j | degree of regularity and pomp.
Kj Of these temples, boasting a permanent Waren, there are,
I j | as before hinted, several in the Conkan, where the whole system
I (I of Waren is perhaps more prevalent than in any other part of
m India. The Waren at each of these shrines has generally a
| (I distinct character, in some being purely oracular, in others
! j chiefly sanatory. The shrine of Bameshwuru, at Malwun, in
| (| the Southern Conkan, is the most celebrated as an oracle ;
I) | that of Hur-hureshwuru, which lies nearer to Bombay, is the
j (| most famous for its cures. A short description of these two
I) | will serve to give a general idea of all the rest.
} (i The temple of Bameshwuru is of considerable size. In the
m inner sanctuary is a raised pediment of masonry, in the centre
j ( of which is a rude, uncut stone ; a portion of this is embedded
m in the ground, and a portion emerges above the surrounding
\ masonry. This stone is reported to have been cast up, or
j j arisen spontaneously, from the earth some ages ago, and is the
|(| object of worship. It is, in fact, a Lingum, the phallic
j) emblem of the god Shivu; and to him this temple was
j (I dedicated under the title of Bameshwuru, or Lord of Bamu,
|) | from a tradition that this stone was installed there by Bumu
m during his sojourn in the forests of the south, on his way to
ILunka or Ceylon. Whether any hollow exists under the
stone, the Bramhins of the temple alone can tell—whether
; the tradition of its strange origin may have been derived from
I some real natural fact, such as partial earthquake, or the fall
of an aerolite, must equally remain a matter of mere con-
m jecture. The temple has a regular and rather numerous
|)| establishment of Bramhins, one of whom is the habitual
n! recipient of the afflatus. It has an endowment of land
|) j attached to it, and is under the superintendence of the Patell
m or headman of the township, whose ancestors had some con-
) nection with founding or enlarging it. When any party is
I \ j desirous of having an answer from the oracle, he must first
ljj obtain the sanction of the Patell, who proceeds with him to
i(l the temple, and tells the head priest that the stranger is
(| desirous of consulting the god. The arrangements are then
j)| made, and a day and hour appointed for his attendance; for
\)\ it is only on certain days of the week or month, and at certain
iji times of the day, that he can be consulted. During one
KI month in the year, indeed, that of Poushu(a), corresponding
j)i with our January and February, the oracle is wholly dumb:
I (| —no afflatus can then be obtained, because, as the priests
j)l state, the gods are not at home in that month. There are
| (I certain conditions in the way of preparation which must be
| j | complied with, both by the Bhuktu or priest who is to be the
|ji recipient of the afflatus, and the party consulting: these,
j)j according to the general analogy of the Waren system in
| j | other parts, consist chiefly in ablutions, fasting or abstinence
I) i from certain kinds of food, continence, and, on the part of the
I j i questioner, the offering of a cocoa-nut, besides such additional
I j | free-will offering of money, &c., as he may choose. On the
j(j appointed day, at noon, all the parties, who have to consult
i) | the oracle, repair to the temple. Fresh lustrations take place
j(j there under the direction of the chief Bramhin. The cere-
1 mony then begins. The Bramhins and the Patell stand
254
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 30, 1879.
within the sanctuary"and supplicate the presence of the Deity, j
The concurrence of the Patell would appear to be very neces- |)
sary on these occasions; for, according to some of our |(
informants, the Waren will never come, unless the Patel!, j)
who is the temporal lord or lay patron of the establishment, | (
has first given his sanction, and joined in the general invoca- j |
tion. The consulters, meanwhile, stand outside the sanctuary,
in the vestibule of the temple, whence they can dimly see 11
what passes. The first preliminaries having been gone
through, as above, the Bramhin who is the recipient of the j j
Waren, having bathed his body afresh, sits down before the | (
idol upon a sort of tripod, unties his hair, and fixes his eyes |)
in contemplation upon the image. The other Bramhins com- i (
mence a song of praise or invocation, to the accompaniment of |;
a small mellow-toned drum. Flowers are spread between the | <
idol and the contemplating Bhuktu, and a chafing-dish with I)
some live embers is placed among them. On this the head j (
Bramhin casts from time to time, while he chaunts, frankin- I)
cense and camphor, the fumes of which ascend in thick clouds | (
around the head of the contemplative Bhuktu. In a short j)
time the right arm of the latter is observed to move up and | j
down by a slow, involuntary movement: the Waren is then |/
established in his person, and he gives the responses of. the I)
god to all questioners. According to all our informants, the 11
above is the only convulsive motion which takes place in the | (
Bameshwuru Waren. Its peculiarity in this respect distin- i)
guishes it from most other Warens, and may depend on some j (
vapour, or other natural cause, peculiar to the locality. For j)
ourselves, we would refer it rather to the particular physical | (
constitution of the Bhuktu himself; for although under | /
certain circumstances strangers are permitted by the Patell ! j
and Bramhins to take his place on the tripod, and the same | (
result, a convulsive movement of one arm only, is said j>
invariably to follow, we are inclined to doubt the accuracy of ! (
this report, knowing, as we do, that convulsive movements of j >
one arm or leg are the special symptom of a particular form | (
of disease. i)
In a great majority of cases, the health of the parties is 11
the subject of the consultation. The following is a brief \>
example :— j(
Questioner.—“ Oh god ! I am sore unwell: make thou me |)
well. What have I done ? what must I do P ” K
Oracle.—“ Thou hast done so and so. I will heal thee in |)
eight days : for seven days thou must abstain from such and | (
such food ; twice must thou bathe in the sacred water from | /
my feet; on this day and the third day hence : on the eighth j (
day thou shalt be cured.” |)
Water is poured down the feet of the god (z.e., of the man |{
who has the Waren on him), and this water, esteemed holy |)
as the Ganges, is preserved for the purpose above specified, i (
The directions are all rigidly obeyed, the promise implicitly |)
trusted; and, as we are informed, a cure generally follows, j \
So omnipotent is faith !
The Bramhins are peculiarly jealous of the entrance of any ! (
stranger into this temple. Two or three years ago a Govern- |(
ment officer, travelling with his family through the district, |j
wished to put up during the night in the vestibule, as is very I /
usually done at other places without offence. Both the j)
Bramhins of the temple and the Peons in his own suite be- 11
sought him not to do so, on account of the great sanctity of i)
the shrine. He, perhaps inconsiderately, disregarded their u
entreaties and warnings, and occupied the forbidden precincts. ] \
His lady was then enceinte. On the same night, she was pre- j (
maturely delivered of a still-horn child. This, though a very 11
natural result of the fatigue endured in travelling on the
previous day, was immediately set down as a retribution for |)
having violated the temple, and is now quoted in the country j(
in proof of the divinity of the place : so that an injudicious j)
act, on the part of a Christian traveller, has thus had the | j
unintentional effect of strengthening the popular superstition. |)
Although this is designated the oracle of B-ameshwuru, i.e., | (
of Shivu, yet, according to the theory of some of the learned, j?
noticed in a former note, the afifiatus should, perhaps, pro- i j
perly be regarded not as that of the great Shivu himself, but | /
of one of his attendant demi-gods or spirits, commissioned by is
him to enter the frame of the Bhuktu (a b). jj
Notes by Professor Bal GungadJmr Shastree. i (
(a) [“During the month of Poush, the Waren is dumb.”] ! i
This period of temporary cession of the Waren is common to most of the
oracles. In some places the Devee is said to retire to her Maher, or father’s
house, during the period.
(b) [“ Nature of the afflatus.”]
The Uvusuru is ascribed to Eameshwuru or Shivu, but it should be
regarded as that of some one of the thousands of demons and spirits, of
which he is the lord, according to our mythology.
THE SANATORY WAKEN OE BHTfIROBA AT HUK-HTTRESHWO KTJ.
The temple of Hur-hureshwuru gives its own name to the
town which has sprung up around it, situated on the coast of
the Southern Conkan, close to the sea, and not more than one
or two days’ sail from Bombay. It is a distinguished Siddhu-
sthanu, i.e., a perfect or holy place. There are abundance
of these minor sacred places in India, most of which, in addi¬
tion to their religious character, have the medical reputation
of effecting miraculous cures on those who visit them.
Many of these, no doubt, rose into reputation, from having
been formerly the places of sojourn of persons of great
reputed sanctity; and the cures, which are accomplished at
such, may be imputed, partly to the operation of faith,
partly to the effects which change of air, exercise, novelty,
and freedom from the daily routine of wearisome toil and
depressing cares, in which most men are compelled to pass
their monotonous existence, are known to produce all the
world over; and now and then, perhaps, to the real
salubrity of the situation; for, in the choice of their dwell¬
ings, the solitary and contemplative devotees, as well as
the learned men who gathered disciples around them for in¬
struction in such secluded spots, generally exhibited excellent
taste and judgment. There are, however, many others, the
secret of whose miraculous powers has been penetrated, by
Europeans having discovered, either in the vicinity, or within
the precincts of the temple or shrine which forms the reli¬
gious centre of attraction, hot wells, or springs impregnated
with sulphur and other mineral substances. Of this kind is
a celebrated spot within thirty miles of Bombay, known to
the natives as the holy shrine and miraculous water of “ The
Diamond Goddess ” (i.e., Devee under that title), but more
familiar to Europeans as the Hot Wells of Vujra Baee.*
In this double origin, the one spiritual, the other physical,
these Siddhu-sthanus of India bear a very close resemblance
to the holy wells, which, a few centuries ago, were so cele¬
brated in Roman Catholic Britain, such as St. Winifred’s,
St. Ronan’s Holy Well, &c., and which have now either lost
their reputation altogether, or subsided into mere mineral
waters. The knowledge of the real secret of such places as
Yujra-baee, may lead us to suspect that similiar natural
causes, though of a less obvious character, may be in opera¬
tion at many other of these sanatory shrines.
Hur-hureshwuru, as the name implies, is a temple dedi¬
cated to Hurhuru or Shivu, and the Lingum is the emblem
there worshipped ; but the Sanatory Waren, or afflatus, which
renders the place so famous, is attributed to Bhuiroba, a sort
of minor incarnation of Shivu, who is generally represented
as accompanied with a dog, and to whom there is a separate
shrine adjoining that of the Lingum.
Hard by the temple is a sacred Peepul tree, or Ficus
Religiosa, round which, as well as the Lingum, the patients
must once or twice daily perform the ceremony of Pruduk-
shina, which consists in going round and round it one hundred
and eight times, pausing once during each circumambulation,
to worship it with joined hands.f
There is also a sort of reservoir on the beach, which is
filled with the salt water when the tide is in, and in this all
the patients are obliged to bathe daily, before presenting
themselves at the temple. These facts should not be over¬
looked, in estimating the sanatory influences of the locality.
What with the short sea voyage to the place, the prescribed
fasts there, the change of air, the exercise enforced in cir¬
cumambulating the Sacred Peepul one hundred and eight
* Lit., Adamantaea mater—i.e., the fountain considered as a personification of Devee. The
meaning and probable elemental origin of this title will be understood by remembering the
lines of Horace to the deified fountain of Bandusia—
'* O Fans Bandusia, splendidior vitro,
Dulci digne mero, non stnefloribus,
Cras donaberis heedo."
But, as the word Vujra signifies a thunderbolt as well as a diamond, the title iri&y also be
rendered “Our Lady of the Thunderbolt," being equivalent to lady or mother. In
accordance with this second application, and with the destructive power assigned to this
goddess in the mythology and the popular ideas, her image is represented as bearing this
emblem.
t Vide note on the ceremony of Prudukshina in the article “ Theory and Phenomena of
Possession among the Hindoos,published in the Dublin University Magazine for March,
1848, p. 328.
Ma* 30, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
255
times, morning and evening, and daily bathing in sea water,
a broad foundation for the cure seems to be laid in nature,
before the supernatural is called in to crown the work with
faith and complete the miracle.
It is chiefly in those cases which are classed under the
general head of “ Pishachu-oopudruvu,” or devil-injury, that
a pilgrimage to Hur-hureshwuru is considered efficacious :
under this head are to be classed all those states, which have
been formerly noticed under the section on demoniacal pos¬
session—epilepsy, catalepsy, many cases of mental derange¬
ment, and all shades of hysteria, chorea saltatoria, and similar
nervous affections to which females are so subject.
After a residence on the spot of some days, they are sub¬
jected to the ceremonial routine, which, commencing in
exercise and salt bathing, terminates in an administration of
the usual stimulants to excite the imagination and overcome
the nerves : the dazzling glare of flaming camphor—the scent
of sickly flowers—overpowering clouds of stupefying incense,
and the maddening dissonance of bells and cymbals, gongs,
drums, and conch shells, all jangling, clashing, clattering,
booming, blaring together, with intense rapidity and deafen¬
ing loudness. The epileptic or hysteric patient succumbs
under the influence, and a state of artificial epilepsy or
hysteria is established, which is considered as the presence of
the afflicting demon, summoned by the authority of the priest,
who, invested with the commanding afflatus of Bhuiroba, now
commences the task of the exorcist. He questions the evil
spirit and commands its exit. The latter cowers under his
authoritative voice and glance—answers his questions ac¬
cording to impressions imbibed from infancy—prays perhaps
for some favour—stipulates to be allowed to quit his citadel
with the honours of war—some ritual observance—but
eventually promises to depart; and the patient falls senseless
on the ground, and rises, apparently unconscious of the late
scene, and, in many cases at least, completely cured.
The following narrative will give a general idea of the
scenes which occur at Hur-hureshwuru. It is drawn up by
a young Hindoo friend, who holds a responsible office under
our Government, and whom an English education has raised
far above the popular superstition and demonology of his
fellow-countrymen. As it gives a very curious insight into
facts as well as opinions, we give it in his own words: the
lady who is the subject of the narrative is a near relation of
his own :—
"CASE OF CUBE AT HUR-HTJB.ESHWUKC.
“ A Hindoo girl was married to a widower, who had lost his
first wife in the prime of her youth. When she came to be
about fourteen years old she became subject to fits, which
gradually increased in their severity and duration ; she fell
senseless on the ground, foam issued from her mouth, and
the joints of her limbs became stiff. While suffering from
these fits, whose duration varied from twelve hours to two or
three days, she neither ate nor drank anything. One of the
most remarkable things about her when in this state was that
she then always imagined herself to be the former wife of her
husband, spoke of matters which occurred in her time, and
complained of the present wife (i.e., of her real self) as having
supplanted her. Several Bhuktus (exorcists) were called;
but none succeeded in curing her. She suffered from these
attacks for about six or seven years, during which period she
was in a very sickly state of health, and bore no child to her
husband. At the end of this period she was taken by her
friends to Hur-hureshwuru, a place celebrated for curing
patients of her description. On her arrival at that place a
day was fixed by the priest for consulting the oracle. On
the appointed day she was made to bathe herself in a Koondu,
or small tank, which is so near the sea that at high tide it is
covered with salt water. She was then taken to the temple
and made to stand in front of the image. The knot of her
hair was then untied; some buds of flowers, taken from the
image, were placed on her head ; ungara, or ashes, were
rubbed by the priest, with his thumb, upon her forehead,
between the eyebrows; as also upon her hands and feet, com¬
mencing at the shoulders and ending at the soles of her feet;
while some of the ashes were blown over her. She was then
directed to fix her eyes and attention on the image, ,and stand
still, without allowing her mind to wander from it. All this
time frankincense was burnt before her, emitting volumes of
smoke that perfumed the whole of the temple; a very large
nugara (big drum) was beaten louder and louder at every
call of the priest. This process was repeated day after day:
on the fifth day her whole body became tremulous, and her
breathing hurried. She bent herself backwards and forwards,
and sat down upon the floor, just in the same way as a person
under the influence of a Waren would. The priest then
addressed her, or rather the evil spirit in her, and the following
dialogue took place :—
" Question.—‘ Who are you ? what is your name ? why
do you annoy this lady ? ’
“ Answer.—‘ I am her (meaning the girl’s) Suwutu or co¬
wife (i.e., her husband’s former wife); I was cut off from my
husband in the prime of my youth ; and, not having enjoyed
all the pleasures and comforts of this life, my soul was
entangled in them, and I have consequently remained here,
and entered her (the girl’s) body, whom I envied very much ;
for she enjoyed all the pleasures which had been destined for
me, and from which I was suddenly cut off. I am, however,
quite tired of this life now, and would rather have Gutee (or
departure), if you will please to help me, by performing the
necessary ceremonies.’
“ Q.—‘ Do you require anything ? ’ (Such as a cocoanut,
or other offering or bribe, usual in such cases.)
“A.—‘ No, I require nothing.’
“ Q.— ‘ What should be given to the Bramhins to eat ? ’
“A.—‘Nothing.’ (This answer was very unusual, and
surprised every one.) ‘ I go voluntarily : only perform the
ceremonies of Gutee.’
“ The friends of the girl said, ‘ Well, if you leave this girl
we shall perform all the ceremonies of Gutee.’ She replied,
‘ Very well, I go,’ and instantly fell senseless on the ground.
She recovered after a few seconds, and seemed to be greatly
exhausted, and was quite unconscious of what had passed.
She was taken home, and, after two or three days, brought
back to Bombay. From the day of leaving Hur-hureshwuru
up to this time, now nearly five years, she has had none of
her former attacks, has been quite healthy, and has borne
two or three children to her husband.”*
Notes by Professor Bal Gungadhur Shastree. \
Among the Sanatory Warens may be mentioned Nnrsobachee Wadee, on
the banks of the Krishna, near Kooroondvudu, the fame of which exceeds
that of any place I know of. The chief temple is that of Shreepudu Swamee,
supposed to be an incarnation of Duttatruyu, the son of Uttri, himself a
manifestation of the three principal objects of Hindoo worship. The regimen
prescribed is—bathing in the river, perambulating round the temple, and
thirdly, reading, hearing, and believing the Gooroo-churitru, a book con¬
taining an account of the miracles performed by Shreepudu Swamee. The
spirits manifest themselves in the evening, at the time of the Dhooparutee,
or burning incense and beating drums. The whole I consider as another
clear illustration of the principles attempted to be established.
The possessed female becomes so excited and insensible that she does not
cease blowing and waving her hands until others hold her down by force, in
order to bring her to a state in which she can be consulted. A great deal
no doubt depends upon the peculiarity of her constitution, for only particular
females are possessed, and those who are disposed to the afflatus are said to
have a visitation of some sort on that night, if they have no opportunity of
attending the party.
Mesmerism.—Mr. D. Younger, of 1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich, in the
course of a letter, says:—“ In reply to your quotation from the Medical
Press and Circular, headed ‘ Spiritualistic Quackery,’ I beg you will grant
the privilege of being heard to one who has made mesmerism his study for
thirty years. During that time I have become acquainted with, and through
mesmeric agency performed, many astounding cures of the most obstinate
and complicated diseases, some of them after being pronounced incurable
by what the Medical Press calls ‘the profession.’ Tor these cures I never
received any payment, but the satisfaction of doing good. 1 have cases in
hand at the present time, and have just finished with a case of long-standing
ague, thoroughly cured by four treatments. Such, sir, has been my success,
that it inspires me with confidence sufficient to ask any of ‘ the profession ’
to put their powers to the test in parallel cases with their most celebrated
remedies. I will volunteer to substantiate the superiority of mesmerism.”
* The singular imagination which possesses Hindoo women, under the influence of a
Hedulee or female devil, that they are the deceased wives of their husbands, and the vin¬
dictive and angry feelings which their words manifest towards the living wives (that is,
towanis their own sane, healthy selves), have been already noticed in our introductory paper.
The foregoing narrative offers an instance of this peeuliarity. A much stronger and more
singular example of the same anomaly is exhibited by a Hindoo lady in Bombay at the
present time (1^49). This lady has for some time past been in the last stage of decline,
given over by her physicians and friends, and unable to leave her bed, or speak above a few
words at a time. She is subject, however, to periodical visitations of a Hedulee, and while
this possessing daiinon is upon her she rises and wa ks about, and talks for hours with the
greatest energy, and without exhibiting the slightest sense of weakness or fatigue; mention¬
ing past events and family matters which occurred during the first wife’s lifetime, and
could, it is supposed, only be known to her; and denouncing the present wife (that is, her
own sane self), and the present wife’s (that is, her own) child and her husbandfor ill-treating
and not protecting what, imagining herself to be the spirit of the deceased wife, she calls
her little one—that is, the child left by the former wife ! Is this mere madness, or the
parrot-like repetition of ideas with which, from infancy, she was familiar, or is it an aveng¬
ing Nemesis within the conscience itself?
256
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 30, 1879.
ANCIENT AND MODERN SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS *
BY JOSEPH BEALS.
Who now heal the sick by the laying on of hands, or in
other words, by mesmeric treatment ? Surely there are none
in the churches, where, according to the Bible, we should
expect and ought to find them. But we find many among
the Spiritualists, who not only profess to cure disease in this
manner, but who actually do it. And we have examples of
this power with us to-day—persons who have been raised to
health by the laying on of hands, and by mesmerised paper,
after they have been given up to die by the regular
physicians.
There are many accounts in the Bible of what are called
miraculous healing. In the fourteenth chapter of Acts we
read:—
“ 8. And there sat a certain man of Lystra, impotent in his feet, being a
cripple from his mother’s womb, who never had walked.
‘‘ 9. The same heard Paul speak, who, steadfastly beholding him, and
perceiving that he had faith to be healed,
“ 10. Said with a loud voice, stand upright on thy feet. And he leaped
and walked.”
In the nineteenth chapter we read:—
“11. And God wrought special miracles by the hand of Paul:
“ 12. So that from his body were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs, or
aprons, and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out
of them.”
I am well acquainted with a young lady who, for fourteen
months, was confined to her bed with what doctors called
“spinal disease.’’ During all this time she had not been able
to walk a step, or even bear her weight upon her feet, and the
last five months had not been able to move herself at all. Her
limbs had been gradually drawn up, so that her knees were
as high as her hips, and she could not straighten them. The
mother, who was a widow, had spent all she had in employ¬
ing the best physicians that could be obtained, but without
any good results, and they pronounced the disease incurable.
At this time a mesmeric healer heard of the case, and as he
was passing through Northfield, where she resided at that
time, felt impressed to call and see her, and after conversing
a few moments, placed his hand upon the bottom of her feet,
and in a short time her limbs were partially straightened.
After two or three treatments in this manner, at intervals of
a few days, her limbs became straight. He then advised her
to write to Dr. I. R. Newton, who was at that time in Cali¬
fornia, and state her case to him, and see if he could not help
her, but as, they had no money she delayed writing for a few
weeks,.hoping in some way to obtain some, but did not suc¬
ceed, and finally wrote without a remittance. Dr. Newton,
always ready> Christ-like, to perform a good act, immediately
replied, and told her he could help her, and that upon read¬
ing his letter she would feel an impulse to get up and walk,
and enjoined her to do so. She read the letter aloud to her
mother.
Now she had made great efforts to get up and stand upon
her feet previous to the time when she could not move herself
in bed, and it had always made her worse for several days.
So she.said, “Now, mother, if I do try and it makes me
worse, shall you blame me ? ” “ No.” “ Then I shall try.”
She got off the bed without help, but could not stand erect.
However, she walked a few steps, and returned to the bed.
After lying a few moments she said, “ Mother, I can do
better than that.” She got up, stood erect, and walked across
the room and back to the bed without help. And from that
day to this, now some three years, has been steadily improv¬
ing in health and strength, and is at this time apparently as
well as anyone. I should state that Dr. Newton sent her two
mesmerised letters.
We recollect the account as recorded in Luke, where Jesus
took “ Peter and John and James, and went up in a mountain
to pray. And as he prayed the fashion of his countenance
was altered, and his raiment was white and glistening.”
“And, behold, there talked with him two men, which were
Moses and Elias.” And the three disciples saw them. After
Jesus was put to death He appeared many times to His disci¬
ples and others.
I will mention three instances: the first is found in the
last chapter of Luke, when he appeared to two of his disciples
as they were on their way to Emmaus.
Ii “16. Bat their eyes were holden that they should not kaow him.’- • r r>
And he walked and talked with them.
“80. And it came to pass, as He sat at meat with them. He took bread,
and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them.
“ 81. And their eyes were opened and they knew Him; and He vanished
out of their sight.”
J. Frank Baxter told me that a few years ago Mrs. Nellie
j J. T. Brigham lectured in Chelsea, and he was engaged to
sing. After the lecture had commenced he, feeling somewhat
chilly, as it was a cold night, went into the ante-room, where
there was a register, to warm himself. While sitting there a
door from the vestibule opened, and a man came in, and re¬
quested him to give a test after the lecture. This man told
him he was a spirit, told how long he had been in spirit life,
and wanted the test given for the benefit of a lady in the
audience. He also described a pin, in the form of a lyre, which
she had presented him, he having given her lessons upoijL
;i the guitar, and refused any remuneration; then went out
,;! through the door. Baxter said he saw this spirit as plainly
11 as he ever saw anyone in the mortal, and after he left dt
(j seemed so real he thought it must be some one who desired
); to play a practical joke upon him. As soon as he had come to
(| this conclusion the door opened again, and in came the spirit,
) | and said, “ You think I am trying to deceive you ; will you
[j step to the door and lock it ?” Baxter said he began to be
[I a little frightened ; he went to the door, keeping his eyes con-
ij tinually upon this form, and took hold of the knob ready to
| open the door and pass out if occasion required, and while he
was intently watching it the spirit vanished out of sight; soon
j it gradually re-formed, and then asked, “Are you now satisfied
that I am a spirit ? ’ ’ Baxter said he was; whereupon the
spirit vanished again. After the lecture he went upon the
platform and gave the test, giving name, occupation, date of
death, age, and place of burial, described the pin ; also, giv¬
ing other particulars, and then pointed in the direction of the
I person for whom the test was intended. It was acknowledged
to be correct in every particular.
Again, we read in the Gospel according to John, 20th
| chapter, 19 th verse,
“Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when
> | the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the
f j Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and said unto them, ‘ Peace be
(\ unto yon.’
1“ 20. And when He had so said, He showed unto them His hands and
His side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord.
“ 24. But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them
when Jesus came.
“25. The other disciples therefore said unto him, ‘We have seen the
|| Lord.’ But he said unto them, ‘Except I shall see in His hands the print
of the nails, and put my fingers into the print of the nails, and thrust my
hand into His side, I will not believe;’
“ 26. And after eight days again His disciples were within, and Thomas
| with them: then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst,
and said, ‘ Peace be unto you.’
“ 27. Then saith He to Thomas, ‘ Reach hither thy finger and behold my
hands ; and reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side : and be not
faithless but beheving.’ ”
The old saying that “ seeing is believing ff was exemplified
/j in this case, for Thomas was immediately convinced that he
(j had seen Jesus. Now if there is any reliance to be placed
11 upon this record, and I have great confidence in it, here is
(| proof of materialization. There are several points here to
)j which I wish to call your attention. In the first place Jesus,
j| after walking and talking with the two disciples, sat down to
Ithe table with them, and, to their utter astonishment, van¬
ished out of sight, or, in other words, de-materialized. In the
| second place, it distinctly states that it was in the evening,
| and “ the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled
for fear of the Jews, and Jesus came and stood in their
| midst.”
Now here are the exact conditions that are observed in the
| stances, or circles, that are held to-day. The doors are shut
(\ and fastened upon the inside to prevent intrusion, for others
(j coming in or going out after the circle is formed make a dis-
1| turbance, breaks conditions. But some may say there is
nothing said about the door being fastened. Very true, but
would it not be ridiculous to say the door was simply shut,
without fastening, if they were really afraid of a disturbance
from the Jews or anyone else ? Most assuredly it would.
j(j Here, then, is a clear case of materialization, and we have
j/i abundant evidence of such manifestations taking place all
around us to-day. I have been told by dozens of ,my friends
* From Spirit Manifestations of Ancient and Modem Times Compared (Field and Hall,
Greenfield, Mass. ; 1879).
May 30, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
357
that they have seen the materialized forms of their spirit |
friends, whom they fully recognized and talked with, and
then haye seen them vanish, or de-materialize, before their
eyes, I will mention only one case. A friend of mine, in
whom I have great confidence, told me that in 1874 he had a *
sitting with Dr. Henry Slade. He examined the room care¬
fully, then locked the door and put the key in his pocket, no
one there but. himself and Dr. Slade. They hung a piece of
black cloth across one part of the room, sat down a few feet
in front of it, he taking hold of both of Dr. Slade’s hands.
Soon his attention was called to a spirit light which moved
around the room, and then passed behind this cloth. There
was in this cloth a hole cut on three sides, hanging from the
top. Soon this was rolled up, and the face of his father
appeared. Soon the curtain dropped, and his father stepped
out in front of it, and conversed with him a while, then van¬
ished out of sight; he did not go behind the curtain, but de-
materialized in full view. I am entirely satisfied of the fact
that hands are materialized, for I have seen and felt them
under such test conditions as to entirely preclude the idea of
fraud.
For instance, at a circle I attended in August, 1875, I
strapped the hands of the medium together with two long
strips of sticking plaster. The doors and windows were then
shut and fastened under my supervision. There were none
but adults in the room. We then sat down in a circle, the
chairs touching each other all the way round, the medium in
the centre. The entire circle joined hands. Soon what
appeared to be a child’s hand touched mine two or three
times. I made the request that the hand be placed in mine,
and allowed to remain there a moment, at the same time saying I
would not attempt to grasp it. Soon it was laid in my hand,
and after a moment I closed my hand carefully, just to feel
the size of it, instantly opening it again. This I did two or
three times, until I was thoroughly satisfied it was a child’s
hand. It was then moved along through my hand, I continu¬
ally feeling of it all the way to the elbow. It was a soft,
smooth, plump child’s hand and arm. I should say it would
belong to a child of about eight or ten years of age. Then,
again, I have seen hands under such test conditions in other
circles and with other mediums, that there was no possible
chance of deception.
There are, however, many doubting Thomases in the world.
I am one of them. These things must be witnessed before
one can be satisfied of their reality. Ho one can fully accept
them as facts on the testimony of others.
A PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENON.
The San Francisco Chronicle publishes an interview with
a noted physician of that city, who relates the following
peculiar experience:—
“ It was in the fall of ’51, in the days of primitive morality
and laxer justice in San Francisco. I had been but a few
months in the city, and had become moderately established in
my practice. Early one morning I was called to attend a
man who had attained some prominence as a speculator and
operator in real estate. He had been discovered lying on the
floor of his lodgings in a dying condition from half a dozen
knife wounds, the horrible instrument of his death still
remaining where it had last been thrust into his body to the
hilt, penetrating through the right lung. There were
evidences of a desperate struggle having occurred before the
unfortunate man yielded to his fate. He was entirely un¬
conscious in the spasmodic gasps of death, and he breathed
his last in a very few moments after I reached the spot. As
his last breath went out I became conscious of a new and
mysterious presence, and my mind seemed to pass under the
control of a superior mental power. I yielded a passive
obedience to the influence, and immediately the scene of a
death-struggle passed before my mental view. It seemed for
an instant as if I was myself endeavouring to ward off a
murderous attack. With one hand my assailant held a suffo¬
cating grip upon my throat, while with the other he plunged
the deadly knife again and again into my body. I saw his
clenched teeth, and his fierce, cruel eyes gleaming into mine
with the malignancy of a demon. Such was the force and
horror of the impression that I staggered and fell as if in a
xij faint. The bystanders, who were inured to sanguinary
) j scenes, supposed that I had been overcome by the spectacle of
| the murdered man, and their comments were anything but
p complimentary to my nerve and experience as a physician,
/j But the cool and careful manner in which I subsequently
11 performed the autopsy dissipated what might have been a
( fatal suspicion cast upon my professional capacity. I found
j the marks of clenched fingers upon the throat of the murdered
( man. I knew that I had beheld and experienced the incidents
j of his death-struggle precisely as they were impressed upon
( his own mind. The stout, burly man of my vision, full-
) whiskered, with a red shirt, slouched hat, and a black kerchief
c tied loosely about his neck, and that fierce, fiendish glow of
> countenance, I could never forget. But I did not recognize
( the man, and in those days suspicion'was not safe, based even
> upon better foundation than the pretensions of a soothsayer,
t I did not care to hazard either my life or my professional
) reputation in a manner that could accomplish no good purpose.
“ Years after the occurrence, in the early part of the ’60’s,
11 I was returning from a trip to the’east, when I met a gentle-
!j man on the steamer on the way up from Panama. He came
aboard at one of the Mexican ports, accompanied by one or
! two others. Acquaintances were speedily made, and the
usual sociality on shipboard was cultivated. One evening we
I were seated at a game of whist, and the gentleman I specially
j refer to had taken a hand as my partner. I was leading out
| a suit, and incidentally glanced across the table to catch an
inspiration from the countenance of my partner. Instantly a
strange spell came upon me. The features of the gentleman
)j assumed a malignant expression ; his full grey beard was
(| restored to a sable hue; he had on a slouch hat, a black ker-
) I chief, a red shirt—it was the horrible incarnation of my vision
j| standing beside the murdered man. The shock overcame
) 1 me, and I reeled, limp and helpless, from my chair. A glass
(I of brandy and water revived me, and a disposition to sudden
)[ attacks of vertigo was the explanation I gave to the sympa-
p thizing group.
“ The following morning the gentleman approached me
(j while leaning on the rail, and accosted me with a cordial
) | salutation, ‘ Have we not met before ? ’ he inquired. i Just
(| as you were taken ill last evening I seemed to catch a sudden
) | glimpse of familiarity in your countenance.’ ‘ I do not know,’
u I replied ; ‘were you in San Francisco in ’51 ? ’ ‘Yes—no,
)| as I recollect,’ he again stammered. I was looking in his
(| face again ; his features seemed again to gather that horrible
j | distortion of malignity; it held me as the fascination of a
c | serpent, and with a desperate effort I turned away and hurried
) from his presence. No explanation was made or asked on
11 either side. I have met the gentleman often since — a
j wealthy and respected person—but there seems to be a repul-
(! sive force between us, and of mutual accord we keep aloof.
) | Do we know each other’s minds ? I cannot tell.”
| A LETTER TO A VISITOR.
) I (To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”)
(| Sir,—I should be glad if you would find space in your next number for
{j the enclosed reply to the “ Letter to a Visitor ” which appears in your
present issue. Edward T. Bennett.
/1 The Mansion, Richmond-hill, May 24th, 1879.
28, East-street, Queen’s-sqnare, W.O., April 25th, 1879.
) j My dear Mr. Bennett,—To-night’s post has brought me letters from
( yourself and Mr. Calder, of which I understand the meaning, and of which
( also I recognise the friendly intentions (at least in your case).
> As a matter of fact, I have rarely entered the rooms of the B.N.A.S. since
) Eeb. 22nd, nor do I intend to do so at all in future. I have ceased to feel
( interest in its proceedings since so many of my personal friends have ceased
( to be members.
But I am not the less interested in the cause of Spiritualism; and I think
) that it would be logical if some of the persons who are interested in my past
) and future career were to formally rescind (or at least bring forward a
(| motion for the final rescension of) the vote of thanks passed to me by the
) j Council on the occasion of my retirement from membership.
) | As you personally have been always so friendly, sincere, and respect-
) | inducing, I cannot close this letter without some expression of my desire
(I that no controversy may mar the feelings I entertain. Perhaps we should
(| have understood each other better.—Yours very truly,
(j C. Carter Blake.
) i E. Bennett, Esq.
Mr. W. Eglinton has returned to London from Cape Town.
) | Mr. Desmond Eitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., read a paper last week before
) j the National Association of Spiritualists, in which he went into the details
’ of the Williams-Rita stance at Amsterdam^
258
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 36, 1876.
A GOOD TEST SEANCR
BY C. C. MASSEY.
Allow me to report a very satisfactory stance, under
strict test conditions, with Mrs. Elgie Corner, at the Dalston
Association Rooms, on the afternoon of Friday last, the 23rd.
A friend of my own profession, who is as rationally exacting in
the matter of evidence as any one I know, and who concurs
with me in this account, and in entire satisfaction with the
results, was the only other sitter besides myself. We
arranged for a series of seances, but I confine myself to the
latest as yet held, because the remarkable results were
obtained under conditions which, in our opinion, left nothing
to be desired. Your readers may judge. We placed the
medium in a chair in the back room, at such a distance from
the curtain, dividing it from that in which we sat, that she
could not reach the curtain without moving some distance
towards it. She sat sideways to the curtain, the back of her
chair to the locked door leading into the passage, and about
four and a half feet from it. We passed a strong piece of
tape tightly round her waist, knotting it with the utmost care
and security behind her. As the test entirely depended for
its efficacy on the inability of the medium to slip through
this band, I must ask your readers to understand that we
took care that the tightening should be as much as could be
borne without extreme discomfort; and in fact we afterwards
ascertained by measurement that it was greater by about an
inch and a half than would be the case with ordinary con¬
sideration for comfort. (To exclude obvious suggestions, and
with a view to this report, but certainly not for the
satisfaction of any doubts of our own, I yesterday called
unexpectedly on the medium, and being allowed to take the
measurement as I then found her, I ascertained it to be exactly
the same as when it was taken after the stance.) Having
tested the security of the knot, which we did not seal because
from the tightness of the tape round the waist we could not
do so without burning the dress, or spilling the wax over it,
we passed one of the tapes which came from the knot (it was
all one piece) several times tightly round the side bar of the
chair back, carrying the end to the handle of the locked door
behind the chair. We found this to be quite firm and
irremovable, and wound the tape two or three times tightly
round it, then knotted it, and sealed the knot securely
upon paper, impressing one of our signets upon the
wax, so that it could not possibly be removed without
breaking the seal and untying or cutting the knot.
(All our knots we had afterwards to cut.) The other
end of the tape we carried and made fast in like
manner with knot and seal to the brass bracket which sup¬
ported the window curtain at the opposite angle of the room,
nearly eleven feet distant, having ascertained this also to be
a firm fixture. (I should add that though for the reason above
stated we could not seal the knot at the medium’s waist, we
did in fact impress a seal on the tape about an inch and an
half from the knot, so that no loosening was possible without
mutilating the impression.) The effect of these arrangements
was that the medium could not move at all laterally without
breaking one or other of the lines extending from her, while
in a forward or rather oblique direction towards the curtain
there was, as we found by trial, only slack enough for an
advance of a few inches, leaving her quite unable to reach
the curtain with hand or foot, without getting free from the
tape. The curtain had no opening in the middle, and had to
be drawn away at either of the sides for anything to be
visible. From the side of the curtained doorway nearest
her the medium was more than three feet distant, from the
other side more than five feet, after allowing for the nearest
advance. (I should mention that the exact measurements of
these distances I took myself, not at the time, but subse¬
quently, from accurate recollection of relative positions.)
We then left her in the darkened room and took our seats,
one on each side of the curtain in the front room. On no
other occasion in my experience, except on one, a few days
before, with this medium, has anything like the degree of
light we sat in been permitted for a (so-called) materialisation
stance. It was perfectly sufficient for accurate observation,
being daylight, that we neither could nor were very solicitous
to shut out. We conversed for a short time with the medium
quietly, without singing or music, till her voice was changed
p
! !j
!■ ;l
\l\
!(!
i |
ti
for that of “ Marie.” This was quickly followed by a hand
and forearm extended through the doorway, and plainly
visible, with flexible fingers, which rapped the wood, first on
the side of my companion and then on mine. We asked for
an arm at full length, and one was put out, bare, and nearly
up to where it would join the shoulder if there were one.
Next the curtain was drawn away on one side and the other,
showing at each successively a full-length figure, enveloped
in ample masses of white drapery, and which spoke to us (the
voice being “ Marie’s ”) from the places at which it appeared,
moved, and gave undoubted evidence that it was not a
“ dummy.” But as it was within the shade of the dark room
we could not distinguish features, so we asked it to come out
to us. It promised that the attempt should be made, and
professed to retire to the medium “ to gather power.” We
heard Marie tell the medium she was “ going out.” But the
latter partially awoke, asked for water, and complained of
fatigue; so we agreed to put an end to this stance on this
occasion, being well content with the results we had obtained
for the present, and to defer even greater successes to another
day, when Mrs. Corner (who had passed a sleepless night with
a sick child) might be better able to endure the possible strain
upon her system without injurious effects. On re-entering
the room, where we found her seated on the chair in the same
position as before, we first ascertained that the tape was fast
knotted round the waist, and then cut it, releasing her, while
we, having lit the gas, examined everything at leisure. Knots
and seals were all intact. We went carefully over every inch
of the tape, to be sure that it had not been anywhere cu . and
re-joined. Nothing had been tampered with, all odious pos¬
sibilities were excluded, and we were left, not being quite
orthodox Spiritualists, in doubt between the several hypo¬
theses which seem debateable. Certainly “ Marie ” has never,
in my experience of her, made any claim to represent a
departed spirit, perhaps because she despairs of convincing
me.
One word about these trying tests. I think there are in¬
vestigators who would on no account inflict physical pain on a
medium, who do not consider sufficiently the irritability and
discomfort which may be generated by certain modes of
trying not in reality one whit more secure than that above
described. These feelings, if excited, have usually been found
to hinder manifestations. The very time occupied, and
the fuss of elaborate precautions, are probably prejudicial.
The medium knows that any expressed objection will bo
secretly set down to a dishonest cause, and submits with
annoyance more or less suppressed. Consistently with
security, the utmost liberty of movement should be allowed.
I can myself conceive few positions more irritating than the
consciousness that one cannot move head, hand, or limb with¬
out danger of rupturing some ligature, on the safety of which
one’s character for good faith depends.
In the case of a lady medium, I would commend to investi¬
gators, who will only just consider the human figure, our
simple tie round the waist, with a good knot, the ends out of
reach, and without slack, as combining the advantages of sim¬
plicity, facility, rapidity, comfort to the medium (who usually
hates to be much meddled with), and absolute security.
Temple, May 26th.
A REMARKABLE DREAM.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S.
Mr. John de la Montagnie, late American Consul here at
Boulogne, told me yesterday that on the third and fourth of
this month he had a fearful dream, which was repeated,
that a friend in New York was in great trouble; that he
was pursued by a man (a judge) with the determination to
kill him; and that he received a letter, dated the 22nd
May, from his friend, relating his anxiety and other circum¬
stances precisely as in his dream.
Boulogne, France, May 24th, 1879.
Last Tuesday, at the annual general meeting of the National Association
of Spiritualists, thirty-three persons were present, many of them members
of the Council. Personal attacks were made by several speakers upon tho
editor of The Spiritualist; but nobody dealt with the point at issue, that
the actions of the Council over fourteen official motions entered on its
books, sacrificed the public interests in every one of the fourteen cases.
The resolutions were printed in The Spiritualist of May 9th, for the
examination of disinterested readers.
May 36, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
259
WEIGH2NG MACHINE EXPERIMENTS.
We have received the following letter :■—
** Spiers & Pond’s Holborn Viaduct Hotel, London, May 27th, 1879.
fTo the Editor of ‘ The Spiritualist.’)
“ Deak Sir,—I think that as I have waited six months for my weighing
machine gift to the British National Association of Spiritualists to come
into life by the using of it for testing materialization mediums, and as no
apphcation of it has yet resulted, it is high time I steered my plans of
investigation into another atmosphere. I shall take a room of my own, and
with the kind assistance of a few private friends who are anxious to attain
a deeper knowledge in Spiritualism than we at present possess, will begin
afresh. I will shortly provide a similar weighing machine to test the powers
of Miss K. S. Cook, or others, in proof of what I have lately written, and any
other medium who likes to call can be tested and possibly engaged. I wish
you also to make known it is to be no association; it will have no name,
nor will there be payment for admission, but the stances will be purely con¬
ducted by a dozen gentlemen of high respectability, our purpose being
deeper research. The new experiences will, through you, 1 trust, be
faithfully reported weekly.
“ Chas. Blackburn.
“Parkfield, Didst ury, nr. Manchester.”
Nearly all the physical mediums refuse to sit for the Na¬
tional Association of Spiritualists, which is the reason why
the valuable apparatus there is lying idle. Mr. Blackburn
has already taken a room for experimental purposes, and has
issued his invitations to those friends he wishes to join him in
research. The new apparatus is now in course of construction
by . Messrs. Varley Brothers, and will soon be ready for use.
In various points of detail the new machinery will present
improvements upon that hitherto employed for the purpose
of weighing mediums during the evolution of manifestations.
MENTAL PHENOMENA AND CONSCIOUSNESS.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, P.G.S., AUTHOR OF "LETTERS TO MISS MARTINEATJ.”
I am glad to read some close and very true remarks by Mr.
Francis Galton on the nature of consciousness and inde¬
pendent cerebral action; but the meaning of the heading
“inner consciousness”—a term also used by Mrs. Louisa
Andrews (p. 248)—one does not see. Consciousness means
the mental phenomena, and is simply perceiving, or rather
the perceptions, which with Berkeley were the things them¬
selves. But a perception is neither an entity nor a power in
itself, but the sense accompaniment of a cerebral action, and
ever in relation to a will or effort; but whether the physical
action as well as the sense accompaniment is to be included as
mind is a matter of agreement. The most important and
primary need is to analyse perception, to attain a clear under¬
standing as to the actual nature of our knowledge, its extent,
and the illusions or sources of error, which, strange to say,
has never yet been done. Bacon refers to the necessity as
the primary need, “first and before all;” but wrote his Novum
Organum without attempting what he has justly asserted to
be of the first importance—an omission referred to by Professor
Fowler in his new work on Bacon's Novum Organum—an
idealist could not analyse perception, or must cease to be an
idealist. I have given this analysis as an example of the
inductive method, and will hereafter repeat it in The
Spiritualist.
Perhaps I might remark here how we ought all to be more
careful and exact in the use of metaphorical expressions—
such as inner and outer, higher and lower, deep and shallow
—all well enough in conversation, but in scientific exposition
very misleading. There is a good deal of conventional
physiology which science has not yet rubbed out, as when a
speaker says that he feels the kindness of his reception to the
very bottom of his heart—about as true as that truth lies at the
bottom of the well—and actors still do what is quite un¬
natural, place the two hands over the heart to express the
warmth of their feelings. Even Professor Tyndall uses
misleading metaphorical expressions, calling attraction and
repulsion a push and a pull, and referring to a chasm between
the brain and its perceptions that we cannot bridge over; and
Darwin out-hefods Herod in this respect. Of course without
similitudes we could hardly have a language, and would lose
the very elements of poetry, as Mr. Harrison best knows; but
now that the study of mind is becoming a science we
should be more exact in our illustrations and in the terms
we use.
i MR. CHARLES H. ROSTER’S MEDIUMSHIP.
!(; Mr. C. H. Foster has long been noted as one of the best
test mediums in the United States. All his stances are held
in a strong light, and his powers are great enough to
overcome some of the strongest antagonistic influences. A
few particulars about his stances are appended. The first is
extracted from The New York Era.
MR. CHARLES FOSTER AND THE LATE LORD LYTTON—A DESCRIPTION OF A
SEANCE.
f?! Mr. Foster is the most unspiritual-looking personage
j>j imaginable; there is nothing at all ascetic or.aesthetic about
|) I him. He is of this world, worldly, and is full-formed, full-
m faced, muscular, handsome—a good-looking blonde-brunette
|)| of the order that takes life easily. He loves wine and
I, \ tobacco, horses and social excitements, and vehemently insists
if| that a man’s “ spiritual ” gifts have nothing to do with a
IS | man’s “ spiritual ” character, but are essentially fortuitous and
|) | accidental. Pope “ lisped in numbers, for the numbers came ; ”
j) | and so Foster became a medium simply because, as he phrases
j (! it, “ the spirits came to him; ” he did not go out of his way
I j i or change his habits to seek them.
He is a Yankee by birth, having seen the light first in
j j i Salem, Mass. He is about thirty-five years of age, and has
jj been a clairvoyant and a medium since his tenth year. His
I) | “ spiritual gifts ” attracted some attention in New England,
J(l and subsequently visiting London, he became quite a lion.
i)| During this portion of his career he became quite intimate
(| with the great novelist and romancist, Bulwer, and this
) | episode in his life is worthy of attention.
(j He was introduced to Bulwer, then Sir Edward only, in
London, by Mrs. Frederick Barnes, an intimate friend and
j(j warm admirer of the distinguished author. Bulwer at that
|) | time was undertaking a new novel, and was likewise investi-
j j gating “Spiritualism,” and thus meeting Foster at such a
i jj period, his mind was still more strongly directed to this sub-
|(j ject. He invited Mr. Foster to call and see him at Kneb-
)| worth, an invitation of which Mr. Foster availed himself on
I(| several occasions, and for several days at a time. His
j)i reminiscences of Bulwer at his ancestral home are decidedly
i (I interesting, and throw considerable light upon the character
|) I of that prince of letters.
According to Foster, Bulwer was a man very haughty and
i)j self-assertive in the company of his equals or his rivals in
I (l rank or literature. He was reserved with Lord Palmerston, on
i / \ his guard with Mr. Disraeli, and rather unfriendly with Earl
j (j Russell; but to those who did not come into competition with
i)j him in any sense he was courteous and affable. To Foster he
| S | was the pink of politeness, a perfect host; and he was be-
|)j loved by all the servants of his elegant establishment. He
i(j was given to hospitality, and was in the habit of entertaining
)j the best men in the kingdom. He was a great worker, also
j(j a great dandy, full of affectations—a mixture of Beau Brum-
\)\ mell and N. P. Willis. He was not a man of sincere convic-
(! tions, and devoutly believed in only one thing—himself.
As for Spiritualism, he studied its phenomena, and never
hi suffered himself or others to rail at it. Yet he was not a
m convert to Spiritualism, as then (or now) understood. He
I)! had trained himself always to look at both sides of every
| (| question, so that when others attacked Spiritualism, he would
j ! guardedly defend it; and when others enthusiastically sup-
U ported it, he would attack its abuses; so that neither side
|ji could fairly claim him.
j(i During Foster’s visits to Bulwer the latter was engaged in
i)! constructing that wonderful novel called A Strange Story, in
\h which certain spiritual phenomena are discussed and illus-
jjj trated in a manner as yet unsurpassed for originality and
interest. Certain points in the hero of this novel were takeu
jjl from the personnel and history of Foster, and Bulwer often
j(l alluded to the fact that Foster was the model upon which he
j j j had based his Margrave.
On several occasions Bulwer, who evidently regarded A
j j i Strange Story as his greatest book, would read passages from
i(i it to Foster. The two, author and medium, would sit in the
i j I library at Knebworth, side by side; and there, after the
m reading, the author would become a disciple, and Foster
ijj would hold a stance.
!<! On one occasion Bulwer advised Foster confidential^ not
260
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ma*y 30, 1879.
to call himself a “Spiritualist,” so that the name should not
excite popular prejudice against him, but to give his “ exhi¬
bitions ” merely as “ scientific phenomena ; ” but this advice
was unpalatable to Foster, and Bulwer taking some offence
that it was not adopted, a coolness arose between the two men.
Remaining for some time in London, and then travelling
through Europe* Foster returned to this country, and has now
temporarily located himself at No. 19, West Twenty-second
Street, en route for Australia.
And now the questions naturally arise, What does this
man Foster do ? And how does ho do it ?
With regard to the second question with reference to the
“ how ”—the modus qperandi of the phenomena—nothing can
be definitely known. Mr. Foster says unhesitatingly that they
all take place through spirit agency, of which agency he is a
mere instrument, and that he does not cause the phenomena
any more than he could prevent them. He says candidly that
the spirits come to him, and take possession of him, and com¬
municate with him, and that all he can do is to submit to
their influences, to do as he is told, and to tell others what
they tell him. He certainly seems to be sincere in what he
says, and resorts to no clap-trap whatever. There are no
trances, no darkened rooms, no spirit faces, no music in the
air, no feeling of hands and legs, etc., no charlatanism or
trickery of any visible kind. He sits during a seance in a
well-lighted room, beside a small table with no apparatus
upon it and extremely simple ; he holds nothing in his hands,
smokes a cigar, and converses on the ordinary subjects of the
day at intervals. He claims that the spirits appear to him,
or else whisper in his ear, and that their communications to
him are all “ external ’’—made from without—entirely inde¬
pendent of his own volition or mentality. It may be that
all this is not true; it may be that there is some trickery in
the matter; but, if so, from the very nature of the case, it
is so skilfully done as to amount to a positive miracle of skill;
and certainly no one, as yet, has been able either to expose
the trickery or to explain the phenomena.
What he does is simple, yet wonderful enough, and can
best be illustrated by a literal, plain, unvarnished narrative
of a visit paid by the writer to the rooms of Mr. Foster, 19,
West Twenty-second Street, on the afternoon of May 28th,
in company with an artist and a merchant of this city, each
of whom can substantiate this narrative in every particular.
First, Mr, Foster requested us to write on a slip of paper
the names of some twenty or thirty people, men and women,
having among them a certain name of “a departed spirit”
with whom we specially desired to “ communicate.” This
slip of paper we afterwards cut into separate slips, each con¬
taining a separate name, and of each slip we made a ball, or
pellet, and then shook them together, so mingling them that,
to save our lives, we could not tell which from which. Yet,
by taking these pellets, or balls, or slips in his hand, and ap¬
plying them rapidly to his forehead, he was able to feel at
once which pellet, or slip, or ball contained the particular
name with which we wished to “ communicate.” Grant that
this was a trick ; yet it was so astonishingly, cleverly
managed that it alone would constitute “ a whole evening’s
-entertainment.” And if it was a trick, how was it done ?
Second, in answer to Mr. Foster’s summons there were all
sorts of raps, although Mr. Foster himself was not at the time
near the table. There was also writing done under the table, and
writing, too, of names which, from the very nature of the
case, must have been wholly unknown to Mr. Foster, unless,
indeed, he was in the possession of the secrets of all our life
almost from our cradle, which was impossible, as we had
never laid eyes on him until that day. Grant that all this
was trickery, too; what is the explanation ? How was it done ?
Third, at Mr. Foster’s request we thought of the name of
a deceased lady friend, a girl who had been dead for years;
and lo ! on, or rather under Mr. Foster’s arm, on the surface,
there appeared in pink, or blood, the letters of that dead one’s
name. iYe then thought of a male friend, deceased ; and lo !
his name appeared on the back of Mr. Foster’s hand in blood-
red letters. “Trick,” you say again; but how were the
letters made P and how on earth did the names happen to be
correct each time ? One thing is certain, there was no optical
delusion about the matter; for this writing in blood-red letters
was seen and read by the artist and the merchant accompany¬
ing us, as well as by our eyes.
jfj But thus far, in all this series of phenomena, there has been
HI a material basis ; there have been papers, and writings, and
| jj: rappings, and blood, etc., i.e.y things more or less material,
j ] We now proceed to subject Mr. Foster to the experimentum
ifl cruets, to remove all material base of operations, and to make
||i him deal with mentality alone. Casting our thoughts
! 11 back upon the past—the long forgotten, or, at least, seldom-
/1 thought-of past—we carefully invoked the image of a beauti-
(| ful girl, upon whom we had wasted any amount of sentiment,
;j but who, alas! had been sleeping in the churchyard for
yj fifteen years. We thought upon her, and asked Mr. Foster to
)j communicate with her, though without mentioning any of
] these particulars to him or telling him her name. Handing
I us a card with the letters of the alphabet inscribed upon it,
\ I he requested us to touch the letters in any order we chose,
) I assuring us that whenever we touched any of the various
{I letters which composed this once dear and dead one’s name,
)! there would be a rap heard on the table; so that by putting
Ai down the letters which, when touched with our pencil,
/1 were followed by raps, in their order, the full name of the
All lady would be given. We took the card and touched the let-
tj ters at random, but the moment we touched the first letter
y! of her name, there was a distinct rap. Our friend the artist,
11 who himself had never heard of the young lady, noted down
(! the letter. Then we touched other letters at random; but
j | the moment we touched the second letter of her name, there was
j | another rap, till, finally, the whole name of the dead girl was
h spelled out. Now, Foster had never heard of the girl of
j I course ; the artist who took down the name had never heard
(| of her; we had not ourselves breathed a syllable of her
/1 name ; and yet here was the name spelled out correctly and
/j by raps. But more than this, Mr. Foster also rapped out for
) | us the letters of the name of an old maiden aunt, who had
(| been opposed to our attentions to this young lady, and who
) I had herself been dead for over ten years. More than this
11 even, Foster rapped, or caused to be rapped out for us, the
/ j names of three sisters with whom the writer had been on
(j friendly terms twenty years ago, in Philadelphia; he also
j | told us '(“ through spirit agency,” he said) various particulars
(| about these sisters which were only known to their imme-
) j diate and humble circle, and which we had ourselves almost
yj forgotten. He also rapped out the name of a well-known
U dramatist, recently deceased, a friend of ours; and, putting
\ i himself into communication with the spiritof one of hisdramatic
) | pupils, rapped out the name andgaveus various interesting facts
(j in the history of a popular actress, likewise recently departed.
) | In brief, Mr. Foster gave us the names of the persons we
yj were thinking of—names which we had never uttered; names
/1 utterly unknown to him; names the majority of them utterly
(| unknown to the parties accompanying us ; names shrouded,
l\ so we thought, in the recesses of our memory exclusively;
) I and not only did Mr. Foster give us tho names of these de-
| parted personages, but he evidently obtainedsome source
) | particulars concerning them, which enabled him to talk under-
j l standingly about them. 11 ow he did it God knows, we don’t;
11 but all this he did do. It may be all trickery, all psychology,
J | all what you will, but, at least, it was all done; and he does
ij similar things every day; and, as Bulwer himself said of
:| these phenomena, “ No man knows Aozp they are, nor denies
i j that they are.”
I noiliiil.
' j The last Witch-Burning in Europe—It is generally stated that the
II last witch was burned in Europe in 1793, in Prussian Poland. But this
J i has now become a mistake. She was burned Eeb. 26th, 1879, inYratshevo,
i i in the government of Novgorod, Russia. Her name was Agrafena Ignatieva,
i i She was a soldier’s widow, and seemed early in life to have acquired fame
I for her skill in various secret arts. The name once acquired, sue profited
by it. Without working, she had plenty of good things, for the peasants of
the neighbourhood stood in great awe of her, and sent to her house the
I best of their harvests. But at last Nemesis overtook her. Fits of epilepsy
became uncommonly frequent in that part of the country, and they were
invariably attributed to Agrafena’s evil eye. In the beginning they increased
y i her reputation, but finally the fear of her grew into terror, and the instinct of
11 self-defence awakened. One day a young girl in a fit of epilepsy mentioned
> | Agrafena’s name, and a few hours later the whole population of the country
) i gathered around her hut, and among them the justice of the peace and two
(j members of the Representative Assembly of the Government. There was a
(j short parley between Agrafena and the crowd, then she was [driven into the
) | house; doors and windows were closed, the house was set on fire, while the
unhappy woman cried, screamed, and prayed for her life ; the crowd stood
\ I unmoved, looking on to the last, and sang hymns in praise of the Saviour
who had delivered them from Satan.—New York Times.
May 30, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
261
WHAT IS ANTHROPOLOGY P in w }|
BY W. HITCHMAN, M.R.C.S. " ■ j . ' m
Omitting rare and questionable exceptions, the whole j (i
human race is well-nigh in possession not only of a rational, | |
intellectual, and moral capacity, but something more—that jn
spirituality of soul, which develops a religious sentiment, over |) |
and above any other known thought prompted by feeling, j(j
whether we believe in special creation by Deity, or the i)|
general evolutions of Nature, as seen in the facts of body, | (I
soul, and spirit. From what ancestors in this organic life j) j
did primitive peoples inherit a system of faith and worship ? K j
Is molecule the native source of each mind? Or is spirituality j;j
of being older than the vital powers of bioplasm, or forms of
outward and visible existence ? Do we learn by immediate
perception of some unseen spiritual universe, as did the
intuition of Wordsworth ?—,
“ Our life’s star
Hath had elsewhere its setting,
And coxneth from afar.”
Did a struggle for physical continuity, alone throughout past
and present ages, eventually culminate in a spiritual sense of
duty to Gtod, as well as an acknowledgement of moral re¬
sponsibility to man ? Rather is it not unphilosophical, and
likewise unjust, to clinch every nail of the human coffin, and
declare that mud is first and manure last, since religious
animation is inspired by something which is not religion, or
the quality of being spiritual ? Quite the contrary; the
logical issue of catholic investigation is now demonstrable.
Anthropology must kiss Spiritualism, after the manner of
peace and piety, the scientific truth being that the deathless
star which sung and shone at the birth of religiosity was the
human soul enswathed in a spiritual body, destined for
heavens and for hells on this planet or elsewhere. All true
progress is dependent on freedom of thought, fair discussion,
and righteous action; but the practical fruitfulness of facts is
mainly due to accurate and repeated experiments, or those
scientific illustrations which supersede erroneous theories, and
preconceived ideas of what is or is not a reality. Character
and interest, however valuable, must give place to a just con¬
ception of right and duty on the positive side of human affairs.
Heretical strength must ever subdue orthodox weakness.
“ Until Perfection lives, alone, and reigns—
In cloudless knowledge, purity, and bliss.”
As President of Liverpool Anthropological Society, I have
been frequently asked, “ What is Anthropology ? ” not only
personally, but in numerous communications from different
parts of the country. My invariable answer to the above
question is now as ever, Anthropology, in the vernacular
tongue, is simply a discourse on man. Indeed, it has no
other meaning, etymological, spiritual, physical, theological,
political, social, or intellectual. Pense d Men. Surely one
cannot be held responsible for the perverted applications of
scientific nomenclature (Latin and Greek being yet chief
languages of the learned, or true symbols of intellectual free¬
masonry amongst all peoples of civilization and culture) in an
unscientific or gratuitous manner, whether for the polemical
interests of party warfare, or the distorted misinterpretations
of a conventional and fashionable physical science. “ Under
which king, Bezonian ? Speak or die,” is not freedom for a
philosopher, and pertains only to the language of spiritual
and secular despots, the incurable squinting of whose mental
vision results, alas ! in the never-ending obfuscation of those
abject souls who are doomed to slavery.
“ Society is now one polished horde
Formed of two mighty tribes, the Bores and Bored."
The universal truth of the human faculties throughout the
history of all kinds or varieties of our race (not the special
exceptions of single brains or minds) must, I submit, be
assumed in all logical and philosophic arguments. If this be
admitted, I have then precisely the same irrefragable evidence
for the facts of Psychology and Spiritualism, as one possesses
for the minutest physical demonstrations of histology, or the
most absolute maxims in the science of geometry. If any
controversialist denies the general trustworthiness of the
human faculties in regard to soul and spirit, whilst caring
much, if not entirely, for their fidelity or honesty with respect
to brain and body, there is an end of him so far as I am con¬
cerned, inasmuch as there can be no satisfactory or intelligent
argument with a bigot. It would, indeed, be worse than the
circular method—like two unproved propositions proving
each other. The certain maxims of morals and of mathe¬
matics are downright nonsense to a prejudiced sectarian, who
obstinately refuses to analyse and fairly examine the combined
elements of his whole being, whether manifested spiritually
or materially.
“ Alterius sic
Altera sic poscit opera vis, et conjurat amice.”
How stands, for example, the great vexed question in
Anthropology and natural history, origin of species, according
to the latest observations of Haeckel, Wallace, . Darwin,
Huxley, M. de Quatrefages, Mantegazza, Cart Yogt, Waitz,
Ernest Faivre, and other professors in different faculties of
science (Bibliothkque de Philosophic Contemporaine, 1879). In
short, the chief supporters of the absolute fixity of species
)! admit variability to a certain extent; and conversely the
! 11 warmest upholders of variability are inexorably compelled by
1; recurrent testimony to acknowledge a certain amount of un-
lyj deviating fixity, so that, as usual, the truth in the science of
j/i Anthropology, as in that of Spiritualism or Materialism
I (| generally, seems to lie between two extremes of antagonistic
i) j advocacy, the facts of universal nature never failing. Under
!) | present circumstances I thought one could hardly do better
|) | than give the last address for the session to the Liverpool An-
| (! thropological Society on “ Science revised by Philosophy,” '
j) | or the march of physics—a true march, but a march backwards
; \: when viewed exclusively.. J. Stuart Mill bequeathed a philo-
|) | sopher’s legacy in the words, “ He who knows only his own
i (i side of the case, knows little of that.” O sanctity of reason !
| /1 Several clergymen, moreover, who have lately. honoured me
| (j with their scientific lucubrations, protest,, inter alia, that the
j (| term Anthropological should read “ Anthropoidological,” since
| | the literary, scientific, and philosophical association I founded
|) | more than ten years ago is “ only ” seeking to prove the
i) | Simian origin of man ! Yerily, “ Be thou as chaste as ice, as
j(| pure as snow, thou shaltnot escape calumny.” What! why
I (I the fact is our first president was the Astronomer-Royal for
| \ | Scotland, and our second, Mr. Thomas Inman, M.D., Consulting
!) | Physician to the Liverpool Royal Infirmary, the well-known
| (| author of Ancient Faiths and kindred works. Thus have we con-
i j | tinued from Christian to Atheist, and vice versa with Spiritualists,
•in Secularists, Monarchists, and Republicans, for change. Are
|) I we not English Catholics ?—“ By any other name would smell
N; as sweet! ” I will only remark that the characteristic horror
I i I of free thought evinced by these saintly philosophers of
! (i ecclesiastical mould (more especially their hatred of Darwinian
m conclusions) is about as legitimate or to the point as the
i (! arguments for orthodox angels, with which the public were
|); so memorably, if not imperiously, regaled by our versatile
i <| i Hebrew Premier.
Curiosity, withal, is not restricted to the clergy. Mer-
\l\ chants and tradesmen of every social rank have asked
i) i me “ What is Anthropology ? ” And does the term include
j(j the Biblical, the biological, and the geological history of
I) | mankind, together with such topics as modern Spiritualism,
I (:| with regular stances, the relative superiority of male and
i) I female brains, mesmerism, clairvoyance, the laws of health,
| \ I the prevention of sickness, therapeutics, or dietetics of body,
I) | soul, and spirit, electro-biology, phrenology, the phenomena
j (j of second sight, apparitions, cerebral physiology, man’s place
j) j in nature, relations to animals, &c. Above all, do I believe
that we owe our sole existence to apes or monkeys, by a con-
|) i dieting process of mere physical selection, and that we attained
; j I our psychical construction through gradational evolution of
| /1 molecular atoms ? My reply to these interrogatories is un-
i j mistakable.
hi “ Homo, sum, humani nil q me alienum puto.”
What results Anthropology, or Secularism, can achieve by
|) i fair examination of facts will never destroy worthiness of
i (| character, or the claims of virtue over vice, for to the pure
j<M in heart nothing is clean or unclean, whether created by
i)! Deity or evolved by the forces of nature.
Will any person, even now, with the odium theologicum
hi I strong upon him (in “ holy orders ”), have the gratuitous
i l \ hardihood to declare that it was not within the resources of
|)j the mighty universe, or co-operative powers of atoms and
: *; intelligence, seen and unseen, to have unfolded an intermediate
262
THE SEIRITTTALIST.
May 30, 1879.
form between the lowest man and highest ape, and therefore | (
beyond all possibility of discovery by some future philosopher? j)
Such a declaration is beyond the pale of wisdom. Not many b
years since no intermediate structure was known between j(
Semnopithecus and Macacus ; now there is a whole skeleton. j(
Long within my anatomical experience, fossil monkeys were j(
entirely unknown ; at present there are more than a dozen, j)
and perhaps in the next batch will be found the “ missing j (
link,” in the chain of evolution from Monad to Man. If, as |j
is proved, the macaci in the Senegal, the baboons on the j(
Gambia, and the gibbons in Borneo, could really develop into j j
man-like apes, why may not American monkeys have given |(
rise to American races of men, African apes to negroes, Asiatic j)
apes to negritos, or human types may have issued from various j l
animal stocks, in different regions of the globe, at vast epochs jj
of time and under multifarious conditions ?
To recapitulate : by true Anthropology, I understand not i)
only scientific researches into our physical origin, but our !(
spiritual nature and destiny. Factsindisputable tend to show I;
that the religious sentiment is evolved by the human species, j <
and that man’s highest and best dignity rests not upon !)
the extent or value of earthly possessions present to-day, K
absent to-morrow, never to return, but upon the richness and | j
rareness of that spiritual organism, by virtue of whose like- ! \
ness to God man is an inheritor of the world of angels, in j)
thought, speech, and deed. Psychological investigation jj
teaches that religion began and ended—for the most part— j /
in a crude polytheism, mainly compounded of ignorance, fear, | \
and superstition, or blind faith, expediency, and material |)
worship. Whereas Spiritualism, wisely appreciated and i \
understood, gives us higher and holier conceptions of Deity, j)
whose agents are really his “ministering spirits,” ordained js
and constituted in a natural order, to do service for us in |)
heaven or succour and defend us on earth. (“St. Michael ij
and all Angels.”) Adapted is the new knowledge better j)
than the old faith alike to our social status, and those intel- j j
lectual and moral ideas which govern a righteous, practical, i)
happy life; worthy of the religious brotherhood, or dual | J
souls and kindred spirits—for ever correlated molecularly \)
and ethereally.
CorregpontJence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically I (
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be ])
returned; copies should be kept by the writers. 'Preference is given to letters which are j)
not anonymous.]   j \
SPIRITUALISM ON THE PUBLIC PLATFORM.
Sir,—It must be painfully evident to some of us that our beloved K
science. Spiritualism, is making only very slow headway, and that unless a j \
definite and organised plan is adopted, it will hold pretty much the same {;
position a hundred years hence as it does to-day—namely, accepted by the |)
few, played with by some, and disregarded by most. I have been thinking j (
what a contrast could be drawn between it and another of our sciences, j J
They are both of about the same age, and each, when it first came under j)
public cognizance, was rejected and despised. The unbelief of the orthodox j /
assailed the geologist with a venom only equalled by that which is now i (
ejected from the same source against the advocate of spirit-intercommunion; I (
but to-day geology stands in the proud position of an admitted science, ! j
whilst psychology is scarcely known beyond the precincts of the stance-room j;
of a few hundred private families. i /
The cause of this contrast is self-evident. Geology has won her spurs by ! (
a demonstration of facts—facts which arc visible to all at any time, and arc j)
beyond the region of doubt. So long as the magnificent terrestrial and j)
aquatic monsters of the bygone past were merely described in magazine ; /
articles the public paid little attention to them; but when moulds were j (
made from their petrographic forms, and museums began to exhibit the | (
wonders of the Devonian carboniferous, trias, and oolitic ages, then the . j j
laugh of the scoffer was turned upon himself; and to-day there is no man I)
with the most rudimentary education but is ready to accept the grand |(
narrative which geology can recite to him. Now it is evident that the j (
appeal to the senses has been sufficient in the one case to earn for it ])
respectful attention, and the same appeal must be made if we are to win |}
over the multitude—both lettered and unlearned—to the Spiritualistic j /
ranks. Was it not as difficult to make mankind, who knew nothing of the ] (
earth’s history but what the Bible told them, believe in the existence of j J
reptilia and mammalia on the globe’s surface long anterior to man’s creation, j j
as it is to make them conceive of another world, invisible to the human eye, |)
but from which messengers we know come and go ? If we, as Spiritualists, | (
wish to lift our pet science from its present contemptuous condition, wc i {
shall have boldly to produce our facts, and in spite of all unbelief, both on j >
the public platform and in the lecture-hall, be prepared to prove our position j)
by showing people that of which we are constantly talking, and sometimes i <
egotistically boasting. The artist who claims merit must hang his pictures i \
for criticism; the scientific professor must make his experiments in the | j
presence of his pupils and visitors ; the inventor must display his alleged i /
improvements, or the world will hurry past and ignore them.
This being the case, there are but two issues open—the one to continue
our present method of proselytising, occasionally picking up a scientific
doctor, or winning over an evangelical clergyman, but leaving the great
mass in ignorance; the other to steadily set to work with one object in view,
that object being the giving of practical public proof by ocular demonstra¬
tion of spirit-power over material things. How patent it must have been
to most of us on many occasions that evidence should have been at hand
when wanted. Who has not heard the demand made at the close of an
eloquent oration by- Morse, or some other trance medium— “ Show us these
things P ” and then a long argument has to be entered into, and an ex¬
planation made that “ conditions ” are required. Of course there are
“ conditions ” in everything. If the powder is damp it won’t explode even
when the light is applied to it. If the piano is out of tune, how can it give
forth melody P If tlie horse is untrained, can he be expected to win the
race P What is needed to-day beyond and above everything is a medium
who, in the glare of the sun or the gas, can, in the presence of a hostile
audience, produce “ miracles,” and lift himself at once and the cause he
represents from a position of indifference into that of absolute and acknow-
leaged truth. Were there a good trance-speaker visiting the large towns,
regularly accompanied by a medium, who at the close of the introductory
lecture could “ do something,” it would not be long before Spiritualism
would force itself into prominent notice. Much would not be required.
What Home once did, namely, turning water into wine, or causing a rod
to bud like that of Aaron’s, under the inspection of a bona-fide committee
chosen from the audience, would suffice to make men ponder and inouire.
The mad doctors, with their cry of delusion and cerebral failings, would no
longer be listened to, because their doctrine would be a libel on the whole
community; nor would any other theory than the spiritual one, to the
common comprehension, cover the ground satisfactorily. I know what the
reader will say. “ Ah! it’s all very well, but where is there such a medium
to be found P ” That what is proposed can be effected is proven by the
account given in this paper last week, where a lady-medium produced
certain flowers at the call of a sceptic in the audience. If once an experi¬
ment succeeds it can be repeated, and when the proper “ conditions ” are
understood, it can be repeated with regularity. Is it not worth while,
instead of dawdling on year after year, to make some effort to retain a
public medium for exhibition purposes P I know the difficulties in the way.
The medium would have to devote himself almost exclusively to the one
object of procuring reliable phenomena in the light, in the presence of vast
audiences. Such phenomena need not be numerous, but they should be
certain and startling in their simplicity, so that nothing but the theory of
supernal aid could cover the explanation. It might take a long time
to bring this about, during which period the medium would have to live ;
and as living cannot very well be carried on without means, these would
have to be supplied. There ought not to be the slightest difficulty in
establishing a fund, in trust, for the medium selected during tiie experi¬
mental stances, carried on to bring this matter to perfection. That it could
be done, if properly taken up, I feel assured; and when accomplished it
would be something to be proud of. I, for one, wish to see some practical
result in the movement. People are getting tired of reading platitudes by
the alleged spirits of Lycurgus, Socrates, Plato, Shakespeare, llomilly, and
the rest. If anything could make me believe in “ the fall of man,” I
should be apt to suggest that it has yet to take place, and that it has
already begun in the case of the ghosts of the eminent characters I have
mentioned, and many more who assume great names, but often betray their
individuality sorely. If Spiritualism is to prove to man an after-existence,
it should, in its elementary stage, display its facts. Believing that there
are beings “ behind the veil ” who are anxious to extend a knowledge of
the hereafter, it is quite evident that to gain their object they would bravely
assist in developing a suitable medium for the purpose; and if all would
combine and co-operate, it would not be long before “ Spiritualism could be
demonstrated on the public platform,” where certainly it will have to fight
out the battle at last. T. E. J.
Ulverston, May 19th. -
SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW.
Sir,—The Glasgow Association of Spiritualists is in a better condition as
to speakers and public attendance than it has been for some years. It is well
able to meet its engagements; each member acts on the principle of true or¬
ganization by making the Association's interests his own, and supporting the
general committee through its short term of office of three months; any
officer not doing his or her work is simply thrown out at election. A library
committee and a stance committee are at work. All this proves that organi¬
zation is far superior to disorganization, even if we have a little Pope thrown
into the bargain. Having secured good sneakers, efforts will now be made
to find better halls for the public to near them in. The matter is under con¬
sideration. A Children’s Lyceum has been started by Mr. Robertson and Mrs.
Robertson. Three services arc held every Sunday m the Association Rooms.
At 11.30 a.m. there is a stance, at 2 p.m. the Children’s Lyceum, and at
6.30 p.m. a public meeting. On the last Sunday in April, Mr. Wallis, inspi¬
rational speaker, late of London, now of Nottingham, officiated twice, morn¬
ing and evening; there was an excellent attendance on both occasions. In
the evening the subject, “ The Relation of Sexes Here and Hereafter,” was
the one selected by the audience, and it was dealt with fluently and success¬
fully by the guides of the speaker. The conventional societrary relationship of
the sexes here came in for plain speaking, and some painful but truthful word-
painting. He (the speaker) contended for equality for the sexes, the right of
woman to be the helpmate, companion, and adviser of man; not his chattel,
or servant; not to be sold by mothers and bought by brutes. He also claimed
woman to be in some respects superior to man, namely, intuitively, sympa¬
thetically, and spiritually, and therefore all the more had man need of her
assistance as his “ guide, philosopher, and friend.” Every one was pleased
with the able lecture, delivered impromptu. On Monday Mr. Wallis again
lectured, answered promptly a number of questions, and in nearly all cases
gave satisfaction, although the majority ot querists were uon-Spiritualists.
Mr. Wallis is rapidly improving as a lecturer, and his services nave given
such satisfaction that he is on the list of the Association’s permanent speakers.
May 30, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
263
During his visit Mr. Wallis gave a number of “ Chamber Meetings ” and 1 \ |
stances, and as far as I have been able to ascertain, in every instance both j) j
pleasure and profit have been the result. j (]
Mr. A. Duguid, of Kirkcaldy, lectured here twice last Sunday week, i (j
morning and evening. The lectures were well received and the auditory IJ j
pretty large. i) i
Durmg my visits to Edinburgh, I found that Spiritualism has taken deep | (j
hold there; a large number of the intellectual are busily inquiring whether i (\
“ these things are so,” and many are on the anxious look-out for a return I) i
visit from Mr. Morse, his last lecture there having created a very favourable i) j
impression. So amid the adverse circumstances of financial crises, hard i I i
times, gross materialism, pride, prejudice, and policy, the voice of Spiritualism j I i
is heara above these discordant sounds and contending factions, and vrill be | (]
heard. J. Coates. i)j
65, Jamaica Street, Glasgow. i (j
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF MR. W. H. TERRY, OF
MELBOURNE. |i|
BY HUDSON TUTTLE. j) j
One of the strongest evidences of the truth of Spiritualism is the perfect j (
unity of its manifestations, whether given in the medicine lodge of the Red I) i
Indian on the bleak shores of Lake Superior; to dreamy hermits under the !) I
dark shade of the banyan, or the still darker rock temples of India; to the j (
cobbler’s son on the banks of the Hudson, or the philosopher of Germany; IS I
to the rude backwoodsman of Michigan, or the trader of the Antipodes. |)
Everywhere, amidst the greatest diversity of phenomena, the philosophy re- l)i
mains the same, and the morality taught is identical, while theological dogmas j < j
are everywhere equally condemned. j \ j
The biography of Mr. Terry possesses more than usual interest, so far as ) j
it is related to Spiritualism, because we learn from it that Spiritualism is not i) j
of place or time, out of the race, and a power superior to mortal control. The i (j
manifestations, the phenomena of mediumship, aud the subject matter com- j (I
municated, were almost identical in Australia with those in America. Had j >
that remote colony been isolated, I learn that a system of spiritual philosophy |; I
would have independently sprung up and gone forward to maturity.
Mr. Terry was born in London in 1836, aud in 1857 emigrated to Mel- (j
bourne, Australia. He was early thrown upon the world, and compelled to i (I
labour for a subsistence, and had little opportunity for literary culture. The j) j
boy of seventeen buffetted his way in the rough colonial world almost alone j) i
and single-handed. After the usual vicissitudes incident to the state of (|
society during the early developments of the gold field, he established, in j (i
connection with his brother, a general store at Hemingston, near Melbourne, j) j
on the main road to the principal gold diggings. It was here, in the year j) i
1859, that his attention was first drawn to Spiritualism. It is of deep in- ](•
tcrest to trace his cumulative experience, and the character of the pl'.e- Kl
notnena presented to him, for they arc parallel and identical in character with i) |
those so widely witnessed in this country, showing a common origin. The j) i
reading of the work by Judge Edmonds and Dr. Dexter on “Spiritualism,” it I
which chanced to fall into his hand, interested him so much in the subject, (I
that he began to inquire if there were investigators in the colony. Hearing j i i
that there were, and that they held stances in East Melbourne, he obtained I )l
permission to attend. Arriving rather late, he found twelve persons j?
seated around a large loo-table. He took his seat at a small table at the ex- I (j
tremity of the apartment, and carefully watched the proceedings. He found j \ j
the people more than usually intelligent, and after a time the table moved i) I
and answered questions. Thus he had at ouce given him a fact to begin j)j
with. He says:— (l
“ A supermundane power acted upon the table. The next thing was to I Si
ascertain the origin and nature of that power. With that view I obtained an I) i
introduction to a private circle, the members of which consisted of one family, j) |
I found them firm believers; their conduct was kindly and straightforward, I (j
and whilst offering us every opportunity to investigate, they did not seem I (]
anxious to proselyte. When we sat at a low table, it soon began to move I) ]
and respond to the alphabet, to the questions of our hostess. The spirit I) |
purported to be her mother, and the medium seemed satisfied with her j l \
identity. . . . The table then began to imitate the motions of a ship at j \
sea, and on inquiring, the name of a friend who had been lost at sea was \ j j
given. He was asked to point out any passage in the Bible which would ) |
indicate the circumstances of his death, and the chapter aud verse were indi- i (
catcd. Altogether the manifestations and communications were demonstra- j j I
tive of an unseen intelligence guiding and controlling them. Their respec- IS i
lability and the absence of any motive for deception, forbade the idea of j)
collusion or trickery; moreover our friends were most desirous that we i)
should examine everything for ourselves, and we availed ourselves of the (
permission.”
Mr. Terry thought he was qualified to investigate for himself and admir- I)
ably succeeded. He says:— « . . |<
“ Never shall I forget the eventful night I realized the grand truth of i (
man’s continuous sensuous existence after death. I felt the presence of (
my brother, and it was indeed a happy reunion. Death had lost its sting, | /
the grave its victory. My soul was failed with inexpressible joy, and as I j /
wended my way homeward to tell the glad tidings, I could scarcely feel the i >
ground under my feet. Shortly after this I was informed by my spirit
friends that I should become a writing medium. I accordingly sat alone, I >
and watched events. The first sensation experienced was a numbness of j)
the hand and arm; then a current, as of mild electricity, passed through it, I)
and my hand began to rotate, drawing circles on paper, and after a con- I (
siderable time the letters S. B. were written. These I recognized as the j)
initials of a spirit who had communicated before with us by means of the I)
table. In a few days the influence increased, and several messages were i)
written and signed by my brother and many others whom we had known I (
find loved while in the body. j S
“ About this time one of our circle received a letter from England, )
informing him that a ship named the City of York, on which an intimate I >
friend of his was an officer, was long overuue and supposed to be lost. At
our first meeting afterwards, a communication was written through my
hand, giving an account of the foundering of the steamship City of Boston,
and signed S s S n, the name of the friend alluded to. We said it
was the City of York that was supposed to be lost, but the spirit adhered
to what he had written, and when the next mail arrived from England, the
papers contained an account of the loss of the City of Boston. Many
similar instances have occurred in my experience, proving the identity and
independence of the influence.”
OF course great excitement prevailed in the neighbourhood, and the
conditions for successful secmces were disturbed. The masses wanted
physical manifestations, and were dissatisfied with mere spirit writing. In
1862 he visited a friend for the purpose of establishing a circle. Six or
seven gentlemen met there, and some received manifestations. One who
held himself aloof as a spectator became interested, and received a com¬
munication from his father, of whom he inquired of his sister in England,
and received a very truthful reply, afterwards confirmed by mail. During
this time, Mr. C had been annoyed by the levity of certain members of
the circle, and invited Mr. Terry to his house for special investigation of
the subject. Here the communications became more elevated, but when
questions on theology were asked, the answers were opposed to the
received religious notions of the questioners, and although Mr. C was
convinced of the bona fide character of the communications, he withdrew
from the circle, which from various causes was after a year broken up. Not
having any circle, Mr. Terry concluded to sit alone, and trust to his spirit
friends to prepare him for the work. He soon began to feel the magneti®
influence, and was enabled to carry on a conversation with his guides by
means of magnetic shocks on the forehead, and when thoroughly influenced,
whole sentences were vividly impressed. He speaks of this early stage in
the following words:—
“ My inmost thoughts seemed open to their inspection, and were frequently
commented upon, often unexpectedly. I well remember on one occasion
during business hours my mind reverting to the subject and thinking of the
probable effect of the powers that were given (and promised) to me on my
worldly position and prospects—I felt the magnetic shock, indicating the
desire of the spirits to communicate, when the following was spelled out ;
‘ We see your thoughts. They are not what they should be; you are think,
ing of the loaves and fishes.’ This brief message made a profound impres
sion on me then, and caused me to endeavour to exclude from my mind all
selfish and impure thoughts, and everything which might pain my kind pre¬
ceptors. My great desire was to gain a condition that would enable me to
receive communications by writing. I seemed disqualified for purely
mechanical writing, and my guides told me not to lay myself open to inferior
influences, as my doing so would retard my development to the conditions to
which I aspired. I was promised that on a certain day these uncertain in¬
fluences would leave me, and the good and wise spirits would be enabled to
communicate through my brain. On the evening of the day named, a calm
soothing influence came over me, and feeling as though I were relieved from
a great ourden, I sat down and received a most encouraging communication.
Every day during the following week the same pleasing sensations came over
me, and I was influenced to write instructions and exhortations, of which the
following is a specimen:—‘ Attend to the conditions of your body. It has
a great influence on the spirit, and is the spirit’s abiding place while in
mortal life. Should you not be in health, we will aid you to recover; should
you be in trouble, we will assist you; should you want a friend, we are with
you; all we ask in return is that you aid us to carry on the good work by
assisting your fellow-men, and instructing them in spiritual wisdom. Power
will be given you to heal the sick and suffering. Make a proper use of the
good gifts bestowed on you, and you will bless the day you began your in
vestigations.’ ”
After about a fortnight, I was directed to fix upon an hour which would
be most convenient for me to devote to the reception of a series of instructive
communications, one of which would be daily given. I selected 4 p.m., and
punctually at that time, however occupied, the magnetic shock (which
served as a signal of their presence) called my attention to the time. . . .
It was during the reception of these communications that a new power was
developed in me, which has ever since been of great service to myself and
many others. A young friend was visiting us. She seemed cheerful and
vivacious, and, beyond a more than ordinary paleness, showed no signs of ill
health. She had fallen asleep on the sofa when my attention was attracted
to her by my spirit friends, and I was informed that she was suffering from
an internal complaint, and a prescription was given for her cure. Subsequent
inquiry proved the correctness of the diagnosis. Since that time I have been
enabled, when in the proper condition, to accurately diagnose the most com¬
plicated cases, and as the knowledge of the disease is half its cure, it has
been of great service to many who could derive no benefit from ordinary
treatment.
“ Being unable to procure spiritual literature in Victoria, I sent for a
parcel of works to America, thinking at the time I should derive great
pleasure from their perusal. In this I was disappointed, as my guides
advised me not to read them, as they wished my mind to remain unbiassed
on the subjects treated, so that when they wrote through me, I would be more
independent. But I found my books good to lend. I have from the first
avoided every attempt to proselyte, but whenever persons have applied to
me for information I have presented, plainly and impartially, the results of
my experiences, and advised them to be guided by their reason in this as
well as in other things.”
For several years after the development of the power to diagnose and
prescribe for disease, the gift was used among relatives and personal friends
only, aud no fee taken. In 1868 the calls upon his time increased to such
an extent as not only to occupy all his leisure, but seriously encroach on
his business, and it became evident that he must abandon one or the other.
Advised by his guides, he determined to devote himself to the spiritual
work, charging a fee when the applicants could afford it, and using all his
available means in the diffusion of spiritual literature. About this period
Wm. H. Turner, of the Melbourne Eclectic Association, read a paper on
Spiritualism, in which he severely criticised and disparaged the writings of
A. J. Davis. The paper was so favourably received that it was printed and
^64 THE SPIRITUALIST. May 30, 1879.
circulated, and Mr. Terry felt, as there was no other champion in the field, i)
it was incumbent on him to reply. He. .had no literary experience, but the i/
' consciousness of the truth of Ins position gave him strength, and his reply jK
was widely circulated, eagerly read, and drew the attention of thinking in
persons to the subject. | )
He had an antipathy to advertise himself or his mediumship, and located i)
ina small room over his book-shop in the city, he awaited the coming of the ! (
patients who were to supply him with the means of subsistence, for the sale | j
of books was so small it scarcely paid the rent of the premises. The spirits ])
sent thejn.to him, and little by little his practice became established. A j)
diagnoss of a complicated case had, previous to this time, brought him in j|(
contact with a liberal-minded medical gentleman, who having had consider- i.(
able experience in clairvoyance, was somewhat prepared for the reception |n
of Spiritualism. Some se ances held by Mr. Terry with him and another j)
medical gentleman led to their conversion, and the development of the j /
latter to writing and tra nee mediumship of an excellent quality. The first j j
of these. Dr. Motherwell, ofne of the oldest and most respected practitioners, j j
and member of the Council of the University, has been an open and consis_ i >
tent advocate of Spiritualism ever since, and regards but little the socia ||
and financial losses incident to such a position in comparison to the meutaj | (
and spiritual profit. ^ I (
About 1869 the necessity for a Spiritualistic journal was impressed i)
deeply on the mind of Mr. Terry. He could not cast it off, but certainly j)
pondered over the enterprise. With his deficient literary training and 11
want of means he hesitated, and while he waited, Mr. B. S. Nayler, a recent j (
convert, after giving a series of lectures on “ Spiritualism,” started a I)
paper called the Glowworm, which had a brief career of only five months, j)
At this t ime, an exceedingly sensitive patient described a spirit holding a j)
scroll on which was written, “Harbinger of Light,” and the motto, “Dawn i (
, approaches, error is passing away; men arising shall hail the day.” This j (
influenced him, and in August, 1870, he set to work to prepare the first !)
number, which appeared on the 1st of September of that year, and has j )
continued to be regularly issued to the present. j l
There was no organization in the Australian colony, and Mr. Terry saw j J
the advantage and necessity of associative movement. He consulted a few ; (|
friends, and in November, 1870, he organized the first Victoria Association I) ]
of Spiritualists. A hall was rented, and Sunday services, consisting of jh
essays and readings by members, enlivened by appropriate hymns, were i (j
held. In October, 1872, impressed with the desirability of forming a hi
Lyceum, he called together a few willing workers, and held the first session i) |
October 20th, 1872. It is, and has been from the first, in a flourishing i)i
condition, numbering one hundred and fifty members, with a very handsome j \ |
and complete outfit, and excellent library. He has remained an officer ever j (!
since, and conductor four sessions. He assisted in the establishment of hi
the Spiritualist and Free-thought Association, which succeeded the original I) i
one, and was its first president. He has lectured occasionally to apnre- i (j
ciative audiences, and his lectures have been widely circulated. His j (|
mediumship, which gave such fair promise, both in regard to writing and i);
speaking, became controlled especially for the relief of the sick. Without I) |
the assistance of advertising he has acquired a fine practice. With this he in
combines a trade in Reform and Spiritualistic pubheations, as extensive as j(i
the colony, and the publication of the Harbinger of Light, a spiritual i(i
journal that is an honour to the cause, and well sustains the grand |)i
philosophy of immortality. No man is doing more for the cause, or has i (i
done more efficient work. He has been true to the dictates of his guides; i (j
he has laboured unselfishly for the good of others; he has kept himself (I
pure and unsullied, and they have never failed him. In all these respects m
he is a model for mediums everywhere, and his experience is a lesson for j) j
the guidance of the conduct of their lives.—Religio-Philosophical Journal, j (j
:   : ■ • ' ■      ■ =   - m
Just Published. I) i
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON. ' ! |
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism I) i
is produced by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over ; (i
the river of Death. It contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving j 11
that the said spirits are the persons they say they are. The work, from j (j
beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity. i (j
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific j (j
methods, giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow \ |
from them afterwards. j) |
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of j) j
Spontaneous Apparitions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some j) j
of the phenomena connected with them. The connection between Spontaneous j 1 i
Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism and Spirit Circles is also j (I
made tilear. i (j
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work | \ i
is almost entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the j j
trustworthiness of the anonymous narrator. ) j
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper, and handsomely hound in I) I
half-calf, 8s. 6d., post free. Cloth edition, 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. !)j
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp. I j
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand). |\
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. fid., post free (Illustrated with diagrams) i (
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OFJ MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vox., II. Treating of the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. fid.
Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. fid. ; the work complete, 22s. fid.
CONTENTS:
Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro-
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration ; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion ; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
Bookll.—The Abnormal Action of theMechanism.—Chapterl. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future; 2. How to be Pursued; 3. Objections and
Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea ;
6. How we Know ; 7. Scientific Evidence; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep ; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep ; 4. The Seat of
Sleep; 5. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
BookIV.—The PhenomenaofDeliriumandlnsanity.—Chapterl. Delirium;
2. Insanity.
Book V. The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism ; 3. Natural Somnambulism; 4. Artificial Somnambulism;
5. ThePhencmena of Artificial Somnambulism ; 6. The Physiology of Somnam¬
bulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI.—Supersensuous Perception.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception ; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The Phenomenaof Trance ;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII.—Psychism. — Introduction; Chapter 1. Objections and
Objectors;’ 2. The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force ; 4. The Methods of Inves¬
tigation ; 5. The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic; 7. The Physio¬
logy of Psychic Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence; 9. Phenomena of
Psychism; 10. More Phenomena of Psychism; 11. Other Phenomena of
Psychism; 12. Communicated Phenomena; 13. The Physiology and Psy¬
chology of Psychism.
Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up; 2. Conclusions.
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth, Red edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit¬
ualism, and setting forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious
Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophv of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place
and Function — Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism — The
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Place and Human
Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By Captain John James
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an author who has had thirty years’ experience in
Mesmerism.
The Spiritmlist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Revieto
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
THE S'P I HIT HAL IS T,
May SO) 1879.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHO¬
LOGY, MESMERISM, ANTHROPO¬
LOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O.
[For purposes ofmu'ual convenience the above office has
been rented on the premises of the National Association of
Spiritualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist News¬
paper and publishing business are not in any way connected
with each other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crooks, F.R.S. The best work
ever published to scientifically demonstrate the reality
of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Profess ir of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to
reveal to him by vision events connected with the early
history of geological specimens. Those sensitives thus
saw the Mastodon and other extinct animals as if living
and moving before them; they likewise saw the scenes
by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions
of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation
of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engrav¬
ings, drawn by the sensitives as the visions passed
before their eyes. The substance of a review of this
book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there
is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants
who would not cheat him. The question as to the
reliability of the narratives therefore narrows itself down
to the question of the reliability of clairvoyance, which,
when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate
results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary
communication should bo established, it will bo by
means of clairvoyance or some other of the latent and
little understood spiritual powers in man. Three vols.
i!4s. ; or 8s. per single volume.
WORKS BK ANDREW JACKSON DAY 19,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. cl.
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .76
The Teacher. „ II. ,, ..76
The Seer. ,, III. ,, . ,76
The Reformer. ,, IV. ,, . .70
The Thinker. ,, V. ,, . ,76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or,*Truth v. Theology . .CO
Answers to Ever-recurrring Questions firom the People. 7 6
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . ,36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .36
Harbinger of Health . , . .76
Harmonial Man ; or. Thoughts for the Age . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .70
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .20
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .30
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life: or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .70
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves. .70
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . .50
Tale of a Physician; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
Oriental Religion (Johnson) . . .2-10
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little
book, recommended by Tub Spibitualisx nows-
paper . . . . . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing
interesting particulars and legends relating to
Buddhism . . . . . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . , . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale
Owen . . . . . . .78
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of tho
Zulus, by the Rev Henry Gallaway, M.D. In six
parts . . . . . .16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into
English, with Preliminary Essays and Explana¬
tory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions
interpreted by Comparative Mythology, by John
Flake, M.A. . . . . . .10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an
Indian Officer . . . . ,50
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into
English from the Chinese Classes, by James Legge,
D.D., LL.D   . 12 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P.
Brown, Secretary of the Legation of the United
States of America at Constantinople . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia,
North Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin
Thorpe. In three vols. . . . , 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Moham¬
med. Translated into English immediately from
the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
"D EYUE SPIRITS, Journal id’iStudes psycho-
JlAi logiqnes, fond6 par Allan Kardeo, appears on tho 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sooiete
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
Price Five Shillings. Cr. Syo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.,
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” ow
PSYOHOGRAPHY.
Illustrated with' Diagrams.
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the subject.
Preface.
Introduction.. ,
Psychography in the Past: Guldenskibbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That attested by the senses :—
1. —Of Bight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Barns, Mr. H. D. Jenckon.
2. —Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
George King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls,
Baroness Von Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshoad, E. H.
Valter, J. L. O'Sullivan, Epos Sargent, James O’ Sargent, John
Wetherbee, H. B. Storor, 0. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee
with Watkins. .
II. —From tho Writing of Languages unknown to the
Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr.
Blackburn (Slade) ; Dutch, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese (Slade) j Russian—Evidence of Madame
Blavatsky (Watkins) ; Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timay-
enis (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Prepa¬
ration of the Writing :—
Psychics and Oonjurcrs Contrasted ; Slade before the
Research Committee of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Slade Tested by O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.;
Evidence of—Rev. J. Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J.
Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely screwed
together—Evidence of Mrs. Andrews and J. Mould; Dicta¬
tion of Words at the Time of tho Experiment—Evidence of—
A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.,
Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld, M.D., Miss
Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside a
Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments withF. W. Monck
were conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with
White Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the subject of the
Prosecution of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and
Professor Barnett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist. ■
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
Tho Nature of the Force: its Mode of Opera'ibn—Evidence
of C. Carter Blake, Doc, Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of
Honsleigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Oculist’s Theory; The Spirit¬
ualist’s Theory.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Appa¬
ritions—The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox,
J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and
Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II. — Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—Emerson
—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at|Moravia, N.Y.,
and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Holiis Billings—
Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship
of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Ex¬
periments—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—Tho Dialec¬
tical Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Sub¬
stances? — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits —
Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Descartes—Spinoza
—Herbert Spencer—Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power
ovor.Matter—Testimony of S. O. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit — The Senses—
Testimony ofScora—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine
of Naturo—Ferrior’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Modiumship — Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Win. Crookes,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dumphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmore,
Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—-Conclusive Experi¬
ments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr.
C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seer-
ship—Swedenborg—Kardec—Ohaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge
— Bacon — Lather—Calvin — Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—
Material isation of Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in
God — Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine
Personality.
Chapter XV.—Tho Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—
The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Mora'ity — Sin
Punishes Itself — A Moral Creed — The Teachings of
Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Mode New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections
to Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Galdenstubbe—
James Martiueau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—
Concluding Reflections.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
iii
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post free,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritu¬
alists. A useful book to place in the public libraries, and to
present or send to those who are unacquainted with Spiritu¬
alism. It contains much about the religious aspect of
Spiritualism (given through the writing mediumship of
“M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of the most refined and elegant
works ever printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through
the tranco-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
throngh the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
V. — The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VL—Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens.
How the writings were produced : The Magnificent Egotist,
Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind
Severely Tried: Dwellers in CloiSterham: Mr. Peter Peck-
craft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments.
VIII. —Tho Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon
(Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-medium¬
ship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XL—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth, Given through the mediumship of “ M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXII. L—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem Spiritual¬
ism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism. By
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVI1.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisling¬
bury from the German of Schiller.
XXVII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Chris¬
tianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat,
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“M.A., Oxon.” ■
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Hamson.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wortherington
(Ennesfailen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritu¬
alism.
XXXVIH —Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in
India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzie )
by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and tho Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Colder.
XU.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XL1I.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLI1I.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation
to Spiritualism. By Lisette MakdougaU Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
Formerly issued Quarterly at 2s. 6d., is now published
Monthly at Gd., or 7s. per annum in advance, post free.
CONTENTS FOR HAY.
The Existing Breach between Modem Culture and the
Popular Faith; by John S. Farmer—An English Seeress of
the 17th Century; by J. W. F.—Spiritualism in Chili; by
Perigrinus—Some Spiritual Experiences of the Celebrated^
Italian Physician, Jerome Cardan; by A. M. H. W.—A Priori
Proof oli the Probable Truth of Spiritualism; by Alex. Munro,
M.D.—^"Progression by Antagonism; by M.—The Future of
Spiritualism; by Thomas Shorter.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Glasgow : Hay Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework-lane.
P. O. Orders payable to Hay Nisbet and Co., as above.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Fobces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can
be given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
IV
THJE SPIRITTJ|ALIST,
May 30, 1879.
Just Published.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo,
richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BT WILLIAM H. HAB BISON,
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton
and the Author.
Contents.
Past 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and "Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the News¬
paper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The
Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.
—7. How Hadji A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter
from Hadji A1 Shacabac, a gentleman who visited London
on business connected with a Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at
Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
0. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gardener.—
11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.—13. Material¬
istic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Photographer.—16. How
to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of
the Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-
Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the
Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence*
Past 2.—The Wobbltjaw Ballads, "by Anthony Wobblejaw.
26. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at
Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s Lament.—29.
The July Bug.—30. The Converted Carman.
Opinions oe thb Pkbss.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in
review nearly a column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming
a thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr.
Harrison, exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the
praise of all who are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent
laugh. Not that his muse restricts herself only to such
lighter utterances ; on the contrary, some of his poems
touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his
adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years.
. . . The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome
from which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The
Morning Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“Noone can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes are
pitched in “ something like the same key as The Bon
Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably
successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally we find verse
of great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure
poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Thosewho can appreciate genuine, unforced humour
should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings.
Written, printed, published and reviewed by William H.
Harrison (38, Great Russell-street). Both the verses and the
short essays are really funny, and in some of the latter there
is a vein of genial satire which adds piquancy to the ftm.
The Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather severe,
and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers ; but one of the most
laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be
photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
" A volume of remarkably good verse. . . . Some of the
metrical legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be
sung at the meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or
fifteen years ago. Mr. Harrison, however, knows where to
plant ms fun, and an accurate scientific mind like his can
make jokes with success. ... To all who wish to read a
pleasant volume magnificently got up as a gift-book, we
commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Boohseller.
" An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original,
and not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases
alluded to, and the imprint bears that the work is published
‘ a.d. 1877 (popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada);
a.m, 60,800,077 (Huxley).’ We believe that our readers
may derive a little amusement from a perusal of the
volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of
which are in verse and others in prose, some scientific,
others social, but all of them excellent. . . . The Easy Lays
will make excellent and amusing reading for an occasional
spare half-hour. . . . They contain nothing unrefined or in
bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
" How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photo¬
graphed, is well done. . . . Bound in a cover of somewhat
powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar
in connection with photographic and other scientific
literature, has considerable facility of versification, and
deals, in pleasant and humorous mood, with many scientific
follies which are better laughed down than gravely dis¬
puted.”
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with
a due foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has
produced a most welcome book. . . . ‘ How Hadji A1
Shacabac was Photographed ’ will be sure to make every
reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser,
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be
expected that his subjects should bear some trace of this
peculiar idiosyncrasy, and indeed they are as free and easy
as himself. . . . The poems are all characterised by smooth¬
ness and rhythmical swing. . . . The work is very elaborately
bound in cloth and gilt. ... A gorgeous design upon the
cover. . . . If our readers wish to encourage laziness they
have a most deserving object in a very clever and versatile
member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays,
Mr. William H. Hamson provides a gift-book elegant in its
appearance and entertaining in its contents. . . . The author
is imbued with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all
while offending none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
" A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison,
a well-known contributor to the London and provincial
press, and editor of The Spiritualist. . . . Many of the
humorous poems reminds us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The
Lay of the Photographer, The Lay of the Mace-bearers, and some
of The Wobblejaw Ballads would not have been unworthy of
Barham himself. Some of the shorter poems are exquisite,
and there pervade through the whole a religious sentiment
and poetie feeling which will make them acceptable to most
readers.”
From the Daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is * How Hadji A1 Shacabac
was Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not
too extensive comic literature. The story is one of which
extracts would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely
humorous. . . . Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-
book of an amusing nature, will find what they want in The
Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . . . The serious and sentimental verses belong to
the type of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
“ It is after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain,
or any of those meny souls who do quite as much good in
their day and generation as the authors of the most serious
works. The Lays are always original, sometimes serious,
generally comic, but never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty ;
full of lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts,
abounding in tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit
and humour; and one that may be read many times over. .
. . The get-up of the book is very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled ‘The Wobblejaw Ballads,’
which appeared in the columns of this paper a short time
ago, and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.
An irate member of the Town Council officially called the
attention of the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the
burlesques in the * Wobblejaw Ballads,’ but the members
assembled laughed at the matter, and proceeded to the next
business. The Mayor said that he did not mind them.] . . .
“ It contains some very choice poems and prose essays, is
bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original design of no
ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Fbize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF spirit¬
ualism UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green,
These Essays won the Fibst and Second Gold Medals oe
the Bbitish National Association oe Spibittjalists.
The iSptniMa&i Newspaper Branch Office, London.
The trapped medium ; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Proto¬
plaster, in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It
is an excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men and disbelievers in Spiritualism generally. A review
of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet
displays real genius. Price 6d.; post free, 6$d. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
AT MRS. PARKER’S, 3, BLOOMSBURY
PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.,
a Philosophical and Developing Circle is being formed.
Those wishing to join will please send in their names. Terms
on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when con¬
ditions favour. Office hours from 12 to 6 o’clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, an# a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena
for a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner
with the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size
of those of The Engineer newspaper), strongly and hand¬
somely bound in one, in half calf, red edges. They contain
records relating to Spiritualism in Great Britain from the end
of the year 1869 to the end of 1872, and articles and letters
by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F. Varley, The
Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of how
the Royal Society and British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr.
Crookes’s papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
as the Royal Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery
of lightning conductors. Very scarce. These two volumes
cannot be had separately. Price, carriage paid to any rail¬
way station in the United Kingdom, £1 10s.
London : W. H. Habbison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., l!’.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh "University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its
quality and size, the cheapest large work ever published in
this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism-
Sensations—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep
or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-
Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over
the Subject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feel¬
ings in the Look and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthful¬
ness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep
Caused by Silent Will ; and at a Distance—Attraction
Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Com¬
mands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations;
of Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhi¬
bitions of Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the By¬
standers—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medica
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Anti¬
pathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision,
without the Eyes—Vision of Near Object: through Opaque
Bodies ; at a Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in
Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc..
Predicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of
the Seer—Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting
Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—
Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of
Speech and of Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—
Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI :—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-
Psychology and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Pheno¬
mena of Suggestions in the Conscious or Waking State—
Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Besults—The Impressible State—Control Exercised
by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The
Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The
Subj ect must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII .—Trance, Natural and Accidental;
Mesmeric—Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col.
Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not all Impostors—
Luminous Emanations — Extasis often Predicted—M.
Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phre¬
nology—Effects of Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety
in the Phenomena—Suggestions—Symiathy—There are
Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do not
Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible
of Mesmerism—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—
Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the
Human Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is
Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the
Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—
Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—
Physiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insanity,
Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight
is Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena
Attempted or Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally
Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the Mediutn of
Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of
the Subject—Effects of Odyle— Somnambulisn—Suggestion—
Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Eman¬
ations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid
Perception of the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of
Science—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints
—Conditions of Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure
—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious
or Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an
Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and With¬
out Suggestion— Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—
Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or
by Concentration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The
Magic Crystal Induces Waking Lucidity, when Gazed at—
Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep-
Cases—Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the
Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced with¬
out the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—
Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathic Clairvoyance in
the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Frank¬
lin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV :—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travel¬
ling Clairvoyance—Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—
Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—Clairvoyance of
Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous
Mesmeric Phenomena.—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con¬
cluding Remarks, and Summary.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar §nd St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Alien, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
