Registered as a Newspaper.
Ifrfo'sppr Spriittalism in ffixzzt Sritaiu.
No. 404.—(Yol. XYI.—No. 21.) LONDON: EEIDAY, MAY 21, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HAFTOYEE PLACE, EEGMT’S PAEK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EAELE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING- LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Will be Published in a few days, containing striking selections from the writings of Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., Mr. A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., The Committee op the Dialectical Society, Professor Hare, of Philadelphia,
Professor Zollner, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Captain R. F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the'phenomena of Spiritualism.
The werk will also contain some useful information for inquirers.
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-booh by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with liaving written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant \\&y.”—'lhe PulUshcr’s Circular.
33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 21, 1880.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbttbner and Co., London.
Jttst Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
MB. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On. Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES M A L T B Y,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W-
MISS ANNIE WAITE,
(Of the Principal Theatres of the United States), will give a
DRAMATIC RECITAL
AT 94, CORNWALL GARDENS. S.W., (By kind permission of Mrs. Coffin),
ON WEDNESDAY, MAY 26th, 1880.
To commence at 8.30.
Musical assistance has been kindly offered by MISS BERNANI, MISS VAN SENDEN,
MR. QUATREMATNE, MR. COWARD, and MR. CHAS. DAVIE80N.
Tickets 5s. each, may he obtained of Mrs. Makdougal Gregory, 21, Green Street, Grosvenor
Sq.; Mrs. Duncan, 85, Fellows Road, N. W; Mrs. Van Der Weyde, 182, Regent Street, W;
Metzler & Co., 35, Great Marlborough Street; Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell Street, W;
and Mrs. Coffin.
ORPHIC CONCERTS.
THE FIRST GRAND CONCERT OF
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC
WILL TAKE PLACE AT
WESTBOURNE HALL, (WESTBOURNE GROVE)
ON FRIDAY, MAY 28th, 1880.
To commence at 8 p.m. Tickets may be had of Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell Street,
London. Admission : Stalls 3s, Body of Hall 2s, Balcony Is.
Under the direction of Mb. CHARLES LONG and Mb. JAMES POCOCK.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGHAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, Loudon, W.O.
MESMERIC HEALING-.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simplyby
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
I a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (comer of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
lyrDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
ILL Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 178,
Rue St. Honoid, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE Any form
Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone- road, Earls-court, S.W.
A STROLOGY :—An Astrological
_ZlA_Map of the Heavens, shewing the true positions
of the Signs and Planets at time of of asking questions
(upon any subject.) Price 2s. 6d. Post Free. Three
questions answered free of charge with each map,
(N.B. Sixpenny or shilling stamps prefered.) Address,
Mr. H. DEE, Care of- Mr. Wilson, 1, Osborne Place,
Henry Street, Ladypool Lane, Sparkbrook, Birming.
ham.
rpO LET FURNISHED, Respect-
JL able and Healthy Apartments, overlooking the
Park. Suitable for two Gentlemen, (Friends or
Brothers), partial Board if required. Terms Moderate.
No Children. Five Minutes from Bus, Tram, or
Rail, 275, Grove Villas, Victoria Park. Road, N.E.
References Required.
A RLIS.S ANDREWS, Letterpress,
-E-%- Copperplate and Lithographic Printer, 31,
Museum Street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Three doors
from Great Russell Street.
ALLEGORICAL sketches,
xjl founded on spiritual truths.
1. The Inward Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. 3. The
Two Voices. 4. The Invisible Teacher. Price Is. 6d.
Vicioria Steam Press, 117, PraedStreet, London, W.
PI HINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\J WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford -street, Bryanston-square, London.
No. 404.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER TWENTY-ONE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 2 1st, 18 8 0.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Eree within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baeoness Yon Yay, Coun¬
tess Wiirmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Caldeb, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Gebald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne)
Captain John James
5. C, Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speeb, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
C Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Markley, Esq.
PRiNpE Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J, W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
I C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Friesk, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
1 Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Lunmooee, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Maeryat
Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G- Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; lleligio-Philosophieal Journal Office, Chicago ; 819, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 326, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
1
s
>
AN ORAOULAK STANDARD.
The Evening Standard constantly gives
valuable psychological information in an in¬
direct way, nor did it depart from its custom
last Tuesday night, when in a leaderette it
declared:—
A gentleman named Purdon—Mr. John E. Purdon, M. B.—
has lately been investigating a couple of spiritualistic mediums,
and has obtained results which he and the conductors of journals
devoted to the Cause consider exceedingly important. One of the
two subjects had a “ slight febrile cold, which prevented the
usual display of his mediumistic abilities,” but Mr. Purdon was
not going to let his studies be disturbed by an occasional sneeze.
Health however, is, Mr. Purdon thinks, very important, though
we should hardly have expected to find spirits refusing to come
at the medium’s call simply because he had a cold in his head.
A great deal depends upon the presence in the medium—we are
always quoting Mr. Purdon—of “ a nitrogenised principle derived
from the incomplete combustion of albumenoid matter. Its
origin in the body can hardly be attributed to other than retro¬
grade metamorphosis of built up tissues, notwithstanding its direct
production by oxidation from nitrogenised food in the blood, is
well within the limits of possibility.” Mr. Purdon’s investigation
tended to show that the nitrogenised principle decreased while
the medium was engaged in his performances, and this the extra¬
ordinarily scientific personage quoted says, is “primarily due to
Some interference with the nervous supply of the voluntary
muscles, having its origin in the central ganglia of the brain,
whereby the muscular system was thrown out of gear, leaving
the will free to externalise potential energy through some other
agency.” Mr. Purdon has an enormous advantage in making
assertions as to what he discovered from the two mediums. As
no one on earth can possibly have the faintest idea what he
means, it is impossible to contradict him and show that he i j
wrong.
The “no one on earth” in the preceding
sentence, means “ the Editor of The Standard,"
the language being that which is commonly
applied to elementary scientific principles of
wide application, and such as the President of
the Royal Society might any day, for the sake
of simplicity, apply to common popular sub¬
jects. There is nothing pedantic or unavoid¬
ably abstruse in the phraseology ; it is only
sufficiently technical to save time, on the
assumption that the readers of the remarks
do not wish the mental energy of intelligent
writers taken up by beating out every point
to the elementary School Board level. Surely
a clever and well-known army surgeon like
Dr. Purdon has a right to assume a minimum
of receptive capacity in his listeners. He
might, had he chosen, have led his readers
into the highest regions of German metaphy¬
sics, but he wisely preferred to make his
utterances studiously simple—“ milk for
babes,” in fact.
The Standard, further says :—
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 21, 1880.
For instance, Mr. Purdon says:—“ It appears necessary to the j \
adoption of my theory of mediumship to allow that particular i S
cortical areas and those parts of the brain where sign co-ordination j)
is localised, must be very materially influenced; ” and if any one i)
refused to allow this, and Mr. Purdon asked him why, the defeat i)
of the challenger would be assured. It is very pleasant to follow !)
Mr. Purdon for a moment now and then without being landed in j ?
a scientific quagmire. He ends the following little argument K
with a gleam of common sense, for example. “ Let the objector
ask himself what it is that prevents him from moving a chair at K
the other side of the room. The answer, that the nature of his iS
constitution is such that he cannot do work beyond the reach of i)
his arm becomes a fallacy—i.e, the tacit assumption (an induction I)
from previous experience) that it cannot be made long enough or j ?
otherwise modified, or that a something quite independent of the i (
muscular system cannot be employed. The true answer to the K
question is that he does not know how to do'it.” That certainly K
is the point: he does not. When Mr. Purdon and his audiences !)
have found out how to do it, and can lift a chair from the other i)
side of the room in broad daylight and in the presence of honest I)
men, we will cordially believe in any nitrogenised principle he i)
likes to name.
Does the daily press gain anything by in- !>
bulging in mental gymnastics over everything K
it does not understand ? Would a clown in j<
a pantomime add to his popularity by the |?
same line of action ? Mr. Yokes, who has |>
made such a name for himself, has succeeded Is
in that direction by showing to the more appre- I (
ciative observers a delicate sense of refine- I?
ment, while indulging in the eccentricities of ]>
his profession; and the clown at Covent G-ar- K
den in the last pantomime, achieved respect k
in his vocation from the same cause. Simi- |>
larly, although a daily newspaper editor dare |s
not write far above the dead level of the K
average public—that weary dead level which j ;
it takes centuries to raise a few inches—still |;
he might covertly show intelligent readers |>
that he has a soul above his vocation, and $
knows what ought to be, even while the j>
means do not exist to achieve his desired re- j>
suits. The Standard has greatly improved |>
within the past year or two, and as it pro- R
fesses to represent cultured readers, it might Q
do well to act up to its professions by ceasing |S
to pour newspaper abuse over truths about K
which the general public are ignorant.
 4 
INTELLIGENT MAHOGANY IN PARIS.
You have already given us, from the Daily jS
News, specimens of the clever sayings ex- ](
tracted by M. Nus and his fellow searchers j?
from the table in the Rue Beaune, at Paris, j;
The Revue Spirite of May 1880, thus expresses R
itself on the same subject.
“ The table in the Rue Beaune, this talking >
table which, between ourselves, I strongly R
suspect of having served as interpreter to R
some ardent disciple of Pourier, furnishes us K
with some singular documents indeed.
“ That which is more strange, more personal |>
than even the groundwork of its teaching, is R
the form in which it puts it. It presents K
each thought in an arrangement and choice of
expression of extraordinary boldness, ease and
concentration. From its dicta spontaneously
given, and its positively overwhelming im¬
provisations, a double interest arises, whether
we study them in their philosophical de¬
ductions, or regard them in a purely literary
point of view. Let us only judge them by
the following definitions, each strictly con¬
fined to twelve words—Twelve, the perfect
number, the most complete and the most
harmonious, according to Toussenel.
il Zoology.—Range of beings highly organised
through their faculty of locomotion: voluntarily
instinctive.
“ Harmony.—Perfect equilibrium of all with
its parts, and the parts among themselves.
uIntelligence.— Characteristic of man: the
point of departure of reason: to comprehend God.
“ Conscience.—Point of view where the being
contemplates his creations or his chaos.
u The table especially insisted on the revela¬
tion of a new religion, founded, according to
its opinion, on the phenomenon itself univer¬
sally expanded.
u ‘Very well,’ said the sitters, ‘what have
you got to tell us about it ? ’ Here is the
answer:—
u Progressive ideal for dogma^ the arts for
adoration, nature fora church.
“ When we consider that each of these
phrases was given instantaneously, we stand
confounded in face of an intellectual power
equal to the task.”
We need not agree with the definition of
religion as given us by the table, but it would
be difficult to find fault with the rest, or with
the cleverness and conciseness of any. And
we may well ask, if there be any sage in the
flesh in any of the four quarters of the
world, who could give such concise and
measured as well as spontaneous answering
as the above ? Scrutator.
As an example of theological terrors Melancthon, in
his memoirs of Martin. Luther, says that “while he
was deeply reflecting on the astonishing instances of
the divine vengeance, so great alarm would suddenly
affect his whole frame as almost to frighten him to
death.”
Strange Hallucination.—A butcher named Ray¬
mond, residing at Swansea, has attempted suicide for
the second time. Two years ago his next door neigh¬
bour and companion, Creese, a pawnbroker, hanged
himself in his own house, and Raymond cut him. down
after death. He has said that the sight has haunted
him at intervals ever since, and that the dead man’s
ghost has beckoned him to adopt the same method of
quitting life. This time he was discovered only just in
time to be saved. He is recovering slowly.—The Echo.
243
May 21, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
\_Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; copies
should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous. 
THE PHYSIOLOGY AND MOKAXITY OF PHYSICAL MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—All mediums, whether public or private—and
their name is legion—will, I doubt not, be quite satisfied
to take their stand “somewhere between” the Angel
and the Devil, so charitably assigned to them by Dr.
Purdon in last week’s Spiritualist. There is no other
place on earth, spiritually considered, for any man, be
he a medium or an M.B.
To the dismay of learned doctors be it said, medium-
ship, or the cultivation of man’s spiritual powers, is
becoming “ more general; ” and if it be “ a means of
escape from disease,”—“ a misfortune,”—and only “ a
functional nervous disorder,”—to exercise those gifts
which, better than all things, prove man to be “ only a
little lower than the angels,” then it should be incum¬
bent upon our learned M.B.’s to point out to us such
means of discovering and employing these hidden riches
of the spiritual man, as may be, according to their
ideas, more legitimate and healthy. But until they do
so instruct us in other ways of obtaining that which so
many thousands of us have already developed to the
uplifting of our souls, they must not be surprised if we,
one and all, continue to follow that path which has pro¬
duced for us so much spiritual and salutary happiness.
Physical mediums, who though man-despised, are
not God-forgotten, will fail to recognize themselves in
the appalling picture of moral obliquity so carefully
painted by Dr. Purdon; they will fail to perceive that
they have had an “ inferior development,” or that any
“destructive change has been induced in” them of
“ that highest part of human nature, the moral and
social instinctive impulse towards right doing for its
own sake.” What say you, ladies and gentlemen, in
private life, who possess physical powers of mediumship,
and do not consider your “physical peculiarity” an
“imperfection,” but rather one means, added to many
others bestowed by the Father, of further advancement.
Some of you are esteemed for your honorable virtues,
and your aim is ever higher and higher; for you, as
well as your despised professional brethren, know full
well the road which leads to angel life, and that the
crown is to the victor (over the lower nature). Such
mediumship opens truly a “ means of escape from
disease ”—the disease of sin.
Catherine Woodforde.
May 16th, 1880.
Sir,—Those persons who, like myself, have con¬
sistently opposed the “ ghost theory ” of the true
manifestations which have been so often produced in
our midst, may derive much cause for thankfulness
from the results of the experiments which Dr. Purdon
has given to us.
I take it that we may condense his paper into one
mathematical formula.
One human body minus 100 per cent, urea = normal
action, and
One human body minus 70 per cent. urea=“ dream-
self.”
Or in other words, when 30 per cent, urea is kept in,
the “ materialised spirit ” does not go out. The im¬
portance of this view, as considered side by side with
the experiments of Dr. Haughton, must be tested by
accurate physiological experiment on recognised psy¬
chics ; and it must not be forgotten that if it should
be proven to be true, the “charnel-house odour” so
j?] familiar to the witnesses to some materialisations is at
jsi once accounted for on grounds which do not require
> the introduction of the supernatural element, and are
!?! reconcilable with a theory of the good faith and
s! honesty of the psychics. Further, it is of use to know
|>j that a clean glass test-tube and a few inches of test-
| (| paper are more than sufficient to lay a few ghosts, and
SI that a strong tincture of Leontodon taraxacum will
j)j eliminate them altogether.
Is| But my especial object is to ask Dr. Purdon to
j>! kindly give us his facts and figures in detail, in order
k j that they may be carefully examined. The care and
jsi patience with which on all occasions he has examined
)j the phenomena of materialisation, will induce him, no
<| doubt, to supply detailed information on a subject
) | which is well worthy the attention of Physiologists and
?j Spiritualists. O. Carter Blake.
;| Sir,—I notice that Dr. Purdon leaves it, from his
) i point of view, an open question what the intelligence
s i at the root of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism
)| may be, but he thinks that a “ dreamself ” of the
< j medium is the channel through which the intelligence
>1 acts. Will he continue the subject, and state his
) j opinion as to the nature of the intelligence which has
S i been at the root of the best cases of spirit identity on
?]' record?
In dealing with the question of the amount of de-
)| velopment of the moral sense in mediums, it would be
> convenient to classify those mediums who present
<| mental phenomena only, apart from those who present
Si physical phenomena in addition.
Is a vegetarian diet somewhat antagonistic to strong
\ \ physical manifestations ? Two of the most powerful
> | physical mediums I have ever seen, ate meat in great
c | quantities ; one would eat it in slabs and almost with-
1| out bread or vegetables. Several purely trance-
mediums are vegetarians, or nearly so; they all
appear to incline in that direction. R.
A CLAIRVOYANT SEANCE.
Sir,—Madam Pruniere, clairvoyant and healing
,j medium, who has given some remarkable evidences of
) I her power here, will give a seance next Sunday evening,
<\ the 23rd, at 7 o’clock. C. R. Williams.
6, Field View, London Fields, E.
SYNCHRONOUS VISIONS.
On Wednesday night, last week, two ladies
j in private life who have the power of seeing
I visions in crystals, were among the guests at
?| a seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 21,
Green Street, Grosvenor Square, London.
Sj The seeresses did not sit next each other
<| throughout the seance^ hut sometimes at op-
?j posite sides of the table, and at times the
)| curious phenomenon was presented of their
si seeing the same object in the crystals, whilst
(j at other moments their visions were altogether
>| different. They both of them, for instance,
I saw a large figure of an angel; this gradually
s| changed into clouds, full of little faces. But
II at another time, whilst the one observer saw
I two women, one of them with curls, the other
I seeress saw a boat on a chopping sea ; she also
| had a view of Gibraltar, and a young widow
| small and dark, and two middies. At another
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
moment, both observers, at the same time, saw
two human figures in the crystal.
Perhaps the crystal merely served to divert
the minds of the seeresses from surrounding
objects, thus giving mesmeric influences op¬
portunity to act upon them. No clue to the
meaning of these visions was afforded ; they
may have been but waking dreams. "When
the observers changed their position in relation
to the crystal, they still saw the figures from
the previous point of view, which indicates
the subjective nature of the apparitions.
The crystal was a large one presented to
Mrs. Gregory by the late Earl Stanhope.
 ♦ 
THE APPARITIONS AND CURES AT KNOCK.
The apparitions and cures at Knock, County
Mayo, have not ceased, and day by day the
locality is more and more thronged by visitors
of all classes. The Munster News says :—
These wonderful and glorious miracles are
at length beginning to be accepted by those
who do not believe in the manifestation of
heavenly beings in this world, or only when
the fact can no longer be doubted. • The cures
miraculously witnessed, and the parties who
are the happy recipients of these blessings are
swelling to thousands. Visitors from other
lands have witnessed the heavenly favours,
and the opulent as well as numbers in the
humbler walks of life, all bear testimony to
the one fact—they have been cured, they
have seen the heavenly visions. A religious
young resident, whose sight was almost gone,
and who had expended a large sum of money
in London and elsewhere in the vain effort to
effect a cure, at last repaired to Knock, and,
after having been there for some time, per¬
forming the required devotions with implicit
faith that if it were the will of heaven he
would be cured, what were his joy and grati¬
tude to find his sight gradually restored, and,
after a short time longer, fully recovered.
But in connection with him, more wonderful
mercies were still further exemplified. When
he had been some time in Limerick after his
return, his mother was laid on a dying bed,
with no hope of restoration. He immediately
returned to Knock, to supplicate merciful
intercession for his dying parent, and deep
and heartfelt were his prayers, which were
not in vain, for his parent was restored again
to health. It was while thus engaged in
supplication for his mother that the Blessed
Virgin appeared to numbers in the chapel,
clad in robes of white with gold stars studding
May 21, 1880.
her mantle. Amongst those in the thronged
edifice was a young clerical student, about to
be ordained for the priesthood, and who
chanced to kneel next the young inan, and
also an American suffering from paralysis of
the right side. The student asked him “ if
he saw anything he replied “ No,” and then
the young student told him to pray. After
a short time elapsed he again addressed him
in the same words, but received the same
answer, and again the same command was
given “ to pray.” The young student asked
him again the third time and received the
sorrowful answer, “ I do not,” and then grief
overwhelming him, he burst out with the
exclamation, “ Oh, my God, am I then so
great a sinner ? ” but the young student
told him with a loud voice “ to pray,” and the
whole congregation taking it up as if ad¬
dressed to them, prayer resounded in a most
audible and fervid manner throughout the
church. Then amidst a sudden silence, a
beautiful star was seen to cross by the stained
glass window and gradually float till it rested
near the banner lately presented by the Con¬
fraternity of Limerick, and almost immedi¬
ately the vision of the Blessed Virgin was seen.
This was the cause of a startling effect on the
rapt congregation, for the American was sud¬
denly seen to rise and attempt to rush through
the congregation to where the Blessed Virgin
rested near the banner, perfectly restored to
the use of his side. Numerous other instances
could be enumerated of the Divine favour
and mercy bestowed on those who visit Knock.
A respectable native of Limerick who,
having had relations with a religious com¬
munity in another country, was obliged to
return for the restoration of health to his
own, visited Knock during the past week, and
beheld a blind man, a native of Tipperary,
recover his sight whilst making the rounds
of the Stations of the Cross within the church.
The afflicted man was led about by an as¬
sistant, from station to station, and at the
eighth, whilst offering up the appropriate
prayers, he appeared to be struck with sudden
emotion, and he suddenly uttered an excla¬
mation indicating that his vision was restored.
He threw out his arms as if to reach objects
before him, and seemed fascinated, remaining
rooted to the spot, entranced, as he after¬
wards stated, by the vision of the Blessed
Virgin, whom he beheld encompassed with a
halo. The man manifested the perfect re¬
storation of his sight, dispensing with his
guide and walking about like other persons
Mat 21, 1880.
t H E SPIEITTJALIST.
245
as if he had never been suffering from blind¬
ness. A woman who had lost the use of one
of her lower limbs, whilst beseeching relief
through the intercession of the Blessed Lady,
and making the devotions of the Stations of
the Cross, felt life returning to the palsied
limb, the artificial support to which it was
connected falling away and enabling her to
plant her foot on the ground, and walk with
a little difficulty. This she was convinced
would cease after a few other visits to the
sanctified scene of mercy and relief. The
Limerick man himself went with crutches to
Knock, disabled by rheumatism, and entered
his house on his return carrying only a hand
stick, and evidently renovated in bodily con¬
stitution ; his face hearing a complexion, and
his manner manifesting the freshness of
health. The commercial representative of an
enterprising and successful Limerick trader,
some time after the Divine apparition first
became manifest, saw a disabled man recover
the power of one of his limbs within the
church, and was a witness to his restoration,
from the moment when he felt a creeping
sensation proceeding through the withered
member, (a portion of which had lost flesh and
shrunk to the bone), until it acquired the
healthy proportions of its fellow member,
and the man could walk “pedibus suis.”
Numbers of English and other Protestants of
both sexes are amongst the pilgrims, and
they perform the same acts and breathe the
same prayers, if they do not entertain
the same implicit faith, as the- Catholic
thousands whose discarded crutches and other
contrivances of aid to decrepitude are in¬
creasing enormously.
A SPIKITUALISTIO MEETING.
Last Tuesday, at 6.30 p.ru., the Annual General
Meeting of the members of the National Association of
Spiritualists was held at 38, Great Russell-street, Lon¬
don. About two dozen persons were present, most of
them members of the Council; the thin attendance
was perhaps due to the meeting having been called in
the holiday time of Whitsuntide.
The Annual Report and the Balance Sheet for the
year were read and adopted. The latter set forth that
the expenses during the year 1879 were £362 13s. Id ;
a balance in hand to December last of £18 10s. 3d.,
was carried forward.
Some routine business having been transacted,
Mr. Dawson Rogers moved, and Mr. Stainton Moses
seconded:
That the Council as now existing he dissolved; and that a
Council be elected to consist of thirty-six members, of
whom one-third shall retire at the expiration of the first
year, another third at the expiration of the second, and the
remaining third at the expiration of the third year, and so
on successively; but that in every case they shall bo
eligible for re-election ' .
iVi Mr. E. T, Bennett moved as an amendment :
That the Council shall consist of sixty members, twenty to
retire every year.
jf .Five members voted for this amendment, and about
Ki a dozen against it, consequently it was lost.
Mr. Harrison moved the following amendment:
That the question of the size of the Council be referred alto¬
gether to the members, and that no member shall have
any difficulty, if he desires, in voting on paper for the
reduction to twenty-one.
i(! Six members voted for this amendment and nine or
lj>! ten against it; consequently it was lost.
Id Papers which had been sent by post to the members,
j)i permitting them to say whether they would like the
j)j Council reduced to thirty-six, or kept at its present
id still larger size, were produced and examined, on the
IV; understanding that they were not to be taken as votes,
j/l or to govern the decision of the meeting. It was
Id found that forty voted for the reduction of the Council
1)1 to thirty-six, and three voted against the reduction.
Mr. Bennett than moved another amendment:
That at least one third of the members of. the Council shall
reside outside the Metropolitan District.
Mr. Fitzgerald seconded this, and it was lost.
I/I The original motion was then carried.
Mr. Bennett moved and Mr. Fitzgerald seconded.
That a poll of the members be taken on this question.
Four voted for this motion and a large majority
|>| against it.
j(| It was then resolved
That the election of the new council shall take place on the
15th June.
Is; A vote of thanks to the president having been passed,
kI Mr. Alexander Calder acknowledged the compliment,
iSi and added : You honour me too much. I have really
I/I done very little. The work done here is that of Mr.
I; | Dawson Rogers, Mr. Stainton Moses, Mr. Bennett, and
1)1 others. You honour me too much. 5
The proceedings then closed.
I)| Joan of Arc.—“Who’s he?” adds Southey, “may
pi now be asked of men greater as soldiers in their day
1)1 than Frederick and Wellington, greater as discoverers
pi than Sir Isaac or Sir Humphrey.” And then he
|>l ^venders who ate the first oyster, and cries, Vanitas
I); vanitatum. William Tell, we are told, never shot the
Pj historic apple off the head of Tell, jun. The reason is
K] plain—the splendid story is a fabrication. It has been
1)1 strongly doubted whether Joan of Are ever suffered
p; the punishment that has made her a martyr, though
1(1 details of her execution and last moments grace the
I); civic records of Rouen. Several books have been
Pi published discussing the question. A Belgian lawyer
Ivl is the author of ouo of these. Ho contends that the
p| historians—who have done nothing but copy each
ly other in their narratives of her death—err exceed-
|); ingly in saying that it took place on the last day of
Pi May, 1473, the fact being that she was alive and well
|(j many years after that date. There are good grounds,
pi too, for believing that the pretty tale of Abelard
Pi andHeloise is a pure fiction. To think that the touch-
ing story of their amour is a purely imaginary one
1)1 seems next to irreverent, but the arrows out of the
p| quiver of truth pierce many a cherished love. Even
KI the existence of Cleopatra,
P; “ Star-eyed Egyptian,
Glorious sorceress of the Nile,”
j)l is denied by commentators of no mean repute. That
Kl there once was a person of that name they will admit,
pj but not the Cleopatra of tradition,—The, Globe.
246
CLAIRVOYANCE.*
BY THE HON. PERCY 'WYNDHAM, M.P.
The mesmeric state can be induced in
various ways by passes of the band over the
eyes of the patient, by bis fixing his eyes
upon a leaden disc with a piece of copper in
the middle, or even in rare cases by the
patient taking the hand of another person
and inducing the state by an act of volition
on bis own part. This is the case with Mr.
J. W. Fletcher, the somnambule, to whom I
paid a visit last summer. I went there with¬
out notice or previous appointment, and on
bis passing into a state of trance questioned
him on various matters relating to myself. I
give one instance only : I asked him to go to
where my hoys were at school. I was of course
careful not to mention the name of the place,
Eton. The general description he gave of
them, the house and room they were in, was
accurate, but of course it nearly always occurs
that one general description is much like
another ; and for this reason, as a test, it is
better to choose some locality that possesses
some definite feature of a peculiar character.
The upper school at Eton fulfils this condi¬
tion. It is entirely without furniture beyond
some fixed desks and benches, and has only
one feature to distinguish it from any other
large well-proportioned room. Accordingly
when he was describing the external appear¬
ance of the buildings there, and among others
one that resembled the upper school, I, care¬
fully abstaining from using the word upper
school, which might suggest the locality to
one who had heard of the name, asked him to
go into the building and tell me what he saw
there. He described it as a very long room,
wainscoted with oak ; I then said, “ Do you
see anything else in it ?” He replied, “ I see
a row of busts round the room, and the tops of
the heads are covered with dust.” This was
the feature which I wished to see whether he
would notice or not, the peculiarity of the
upper school at Eton being the row of busts
of distinguished men who have been educated
there placed round the room.
Of course, I am well aware that many
people deny the phenomena of what is some¬
times called clairvoyance, but it is not my
purpose to deal with any doubts of the kind;
if I had the time I had not the inclination,
as personal experience can alone convince
persons whether the wonders of artificial
* A portion of a presidential address, delivered a few days ago,
to the Cumberland Association for the Advancement of Litera¬
ture and Science.
May 21, 1880.
J] somnambulism are true or not. I must ask
(\ those who disbelieve in the whole matter to
>| bear with me while I attempt what must
)j appear to them the unprofitable inquiry as to
>! how the mind of Mr. Fletcher received the
u impression of the appearance of the interior
| of the upper school at Eton. I had hold of
! Mr. Fletcher’s hand. Could that be the
| medium of contact between my brain and his ?
i| This solution must be dismissed at once; it
)| might explain this individual case, but in the
jj great majority of cases there is no contact be-
>| tween the clairvoyant and his questioner. So
)i far as I know, only three theories are put
[| forward in explanation of similar cases by
> | those who would believe the external circum-
>| stances to be as I state them. The first is
>| the belief that man possesses a soul, and that
>j this soul in certain abnormal conditions of
[I the body is freed from the limitations which
>i that body ordinarily imposes on it. With
)| people holding this belief the solution is easy.
|| According to them, the soul of the clair-
>| voyant, which is himself, while his body is in
11 a state of insensibility, is able to have
:| cognisance of the place in obedience to the
;j will of the operator. I shall not dwell upon
i this, whatever my own opinion may be, as it
| begs the question, and if admitted proves
| more than I require for my argument. The
I second is difficult of explanation, if, indeed,
! capable of it. It is as follows: that there is
j no question of soul or other consciousness
| than that which is a secretion of the body,—
j that in .certain abnormal conditions the
i powers of the body become marvellously ex-
| tended—how they are extended is not known,
| —and the man sees without the use of his
| eyes. What is worth remarking here is that
| there is admitted independence of the organs
I of sight. Another solution would be that
I Mr. Fletcher was able to describe the appear-
| ance of the upper school by what is called
| thought-reading, that he read the thoughts
I that were passing through my brain at the
I time. That the phenomenon of thought-
I reading exists I have little doubt, but it is
! quite distinct from clairvoyance. If the
| phenomenon of thought-reading, or sympathy,
I has any existence, what does it mean ? It
I means that under certain conditions the mo-
| tive power of the brain may be something
I distinct from and outside itself, that it obeys
| a will other than its own. If so, it is easier
I to conceive that it is not its own governor,
| that the power it ordinarily obeys is not it-
| self, but something other than itself, whose
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 21, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
247
behest it obeys. To resume, then. In the
second of the three possible explanations I
have given of the power possessed by Mr.
Fletcher we have the effect of sight without
the use of the organs of sight; in the third
the effect of hearing without the use of the
organs of sound. The independence of two
such important material organs makes the
conception of a total independence of the
material body less difficult.
TEMPORARILY- MATERIALISED SPIRIT
HANDS.
Dr. Slade is now in Topeka, Kansas, en p
route for his home in New York, after four K
years’ exciting experiences in various parts of j<
the World. The Kansas Daily Times and |?
other journals give glowing accounts of his j)
stances. At present it is common, while Dr. js
Slade’s hands are in sight, for spirit hands k
under the table to try to pull the slates from j?
the hands of the sitters. The evanescent |)
hands exhibit much muscular power, but the js
fulcrum from which the power acts has not j<
yet been satisfactorily determined. The j>
Kansas Daily Times says :—
“Then followed a startling test, and one jS
that baffled all attempts at solution. ‘ I want |s
you to take this slate from my hand, and pass |c
it to the gentleman opposite to me,’ demanded j)
the medium of the spirit; and he held the j)
slate under the table, whilst his other hand Is
rested on the table. There was evidently a K
pulling at the slate, and then Slade placed j?
his other hand on the table, and the slate j>
seemed to have disappeared. ‘ Have you got js
it V asked Slade. j<
“ ‘ No,’ replied the gentleman; ‘ yes, I j>
have, too!’
“ ‘ Put it on the table, then,’ said Slade.
“ ‘ I can’t get it away from him !’ said the j<
gentleman; but by dint of pulling he brought |?
it safe above board amid much laughter. !>
This wonderful manifestation was repeated js
till all in the circle had tested it.”
Mk. and Mrs. William Tebb and Miss Christine i>
Tebb are at Ober Ammergau, and intend to travel for jc
a few weeks in Switzerland.
On Friday evening, May 28th, at eight o’clock, Mr j)
Frank and Miss Ella Dietz will give recitations, pro- K
bably the last this season, at the Langham Hall, 43, js
Great Portland Street, London.
The setting of a great hope is like the setting of the js
sun. The brightness of our life is gone. Shadows of j)
evening fall around us, and the world seems like a dim j(
reflection—itself a broader shadow. We look forward \)
into the coming lonely night. The soul withdraws into j)
itself. Then stars arise and the night is holy.—Longfellow, j s
RELIGIOUS HOSTILITY TO SPIRITUALISM.
By 0. 0. Massey.
Some time ago I called attention in your
paper to the very interesting meetings then
being held at the studio of Mr. Edward Clif¬
ford, in Wigmore Street, to consider the
relative efficacy of certain agencies—“ Art,
Philanthropy, Spiritualism, Conversion, Ro¬
man Catholicism, Temperance,” in regard to
their “ power over evil.” I was able to avail
myself only once of Mr. Clifford’s kind
invitation to these meetings; but I gather
from a report of them which he has just sent
me that of the six subjects mentioned, five
were unrepresented by any important testi¬
monies. Nor is this surprising, seeing that
the restriction of speakers to facts excluded
discussion of those elevating influences
which may purify a whole life-time and
protect it from evil, but are not rich in the
incidents and crises which illustrate religious
experience. The attempt to secure a repre¬
sentation of Spiritualism had the result
which appears in the following passages of
the printed report. Mr. Clifford’s com¬
ments, embodying the sentiment of the
so-called religious world upon this subject,
afford an opportunity for explanations which
may perhaps lead to a better understanding
of the relation of Spiritualism to religion.
Mr. Clifford took considerable pains to invite leading
Spiritualists to relate any experience as to the power of
Spiritualism in overcoming evil; but the reply was the
same from all of them—that Spiritualism had as yet no
moral results. We give the following extracts from
letters from well-known gentlemen who are leading
Spiritualists, and whose opinions are much looked up
to by Spiritualists :—
“I have never regarded the sort of Spiritualism which can
alone be presented to the public, or of which any one can have
personal experience as directly conducive to moral results. I look
upon the recognition of the facts of Spiritualism (often I think
misconstrued by Spiritualists themselves), as of supreme import¬
ance to science and in relation to transcendental speculations, and
so no doubt to the moral interests which depend on these. But I
should find it difficult to explain wherein a belief in Spiritualism
may have, and doubtless often has, a direct ‘ power over evil ’
without going into consideration which would be called ‘ theoret¬
ical/ and so excluded from your programme.”
“ Such facts as you refer to are not easily to begot at, as Spirit¬
ualism is in its modern phase so recent a movement, and has at
present no general organization. I am quite satisfied, however,
that the principles and teachings of Spiritualism are such as must
produce the best effects on human nature when better known and
more appreciated, while I am inclined to believe that whatever
good effects are produced by ‘ conversion/ are really due to spirit¬
ual influence.”
“I shall be very much surprised if you get any evidence of
consequence of the moral effects of Spiritualism. As far as my
experience goes it shows conclusively the existence of disembodied
spirits, and nothing more. They seem to be without the range of
moral feeling, although they can muster a few common-places.”
In commenting on these and other letters, Mr. Clifford
expressed his belief that Spiritualism was neither more
nor less than the sin of sorcery, and was as distinctly
forbidden in the Bible as the sin of theft. It can lead
unbelievers as far as the belief in an after-existence,
May 21, 1880
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
but (as far as be knew) it never led any one further.
It was a complete “ cul de sac,’> and was no more a step
towards Christ than a train to York is a means of getting
to Bristol. It takes a man slightly in that direction,
but never gets him there. Meanwhile, the risk of
possession by evil spirits, if communication with them
is once invited, is real and terrible.
We think it is almost certain that the coming fashion¬
able religion will be a combination of Spiritualism with
materialism, and that one of its chief characteristics
will be a bitter hatred and opposition to Christ. This
“religion” is foretold clearly in the Bible (especially
in the books of Thessalonians and Revelation), and it
is already begun. “ Seducing spirits ” and “ doctrines
of devils ” are terribly rife now in London and America,
and materialists will Soon be obliged to recognize
Spiritualism as a distinct force, and then it will carry
them headlong. We would entreat persons to abstain
from the slightest approach to it. Doors that have once
been rashly opened are not easily closed. If God sends
us messages from the other world by angels, as he did
to Mary and to Peter and to others, let us reverently
and gratefully receive them, but let .us not disobey Him
by striving to lift the veil ourselves. We could tell
terrible stories of the awful states that persons have
reached through Spiritualism. Insanity is one of the
commonest, but one of the least dreadful results. The
discussion then produced only negative information as
to the power of Spiritualism; and strange to say, it was
almost equally difficult to get facts told of evil having
been overcome by pure philanthropy. This was a real
surprise to us, but for some reason or other it was the
case. “We do not work for those kinds of results, and
we have no such facts to relate, but it stands to reason
that the means we use must be right, and we are satis¬
fied with them.” This was the kind of reply received
again and again.
The writer of the letter first quoted above,
certainly did not, and cannot, claim to he a
representative Spiritualist, though he seems
to he in substantial agreement with others
who may perhaps have a better title to be so
regarded. It is, however, doubtful whether
Spiritualism adpiits of a truly and sufficiently
representative statement. This is not a mere
question of definition, (though that is difficult
enough), it concerns the essential significance
and tendency of the movement. If it is
really doing, however gradually and slowly,
the work which we believe it is fitted, if not
indeed ordained, to accomplish, then, surely,
a mightier “power over evil” has seldom
arisen in the world, though its effects may
not be instantly apparent in individual life.
That mere Spiritualism—or, as for this pur¬
pose it had better be designated, Spiritism—
stops, its mission ended, where true religion
begins, may be admitted. But on the other
hand, religion without the sensible evidences
to which we appeal, has proved generally
helpless against the intellectual error which
blocks the way to all recognition of religious
truth, and would in time paralyse all religious
influences. It is this fact of which the re¬
ligious world, in its deep antagonism to
| Spiritualism, takes no account. Mr. Clifford
| does not see that this demonstration of an
| after existence, of which he, secure in his own
| faith, speaks so slightingly, is just the first
I thing needful in the present state of the
| world. This fact, that we are not ephemeral,
is the foundation of religion, yet religion is
powerless to prove it. And the world has
nearly ceased to accept it without proof.
Nothing is more strange than the inability of
the religious mind to see in the coincident
demonstration of disembodied life and intelli¬
gence with the spread of materialistic opinions,
an appropriate^ if not providential, corrective.
But “it is forbidden.” Herein, and as far
as I can see, herein only, do Spiritualists
necessarily break loose from orthodox re¬
ligion, and repudiate its bonds. They do not
believe, however strong their faith in Chris¬
tianity, that the Levitical law of the Jews
and the prohibitions in the New Testament,
which were addressed to the Christian con¬
verts of that day, and had for an object their
withdrawal from Pagan rites and mysteries,
are binding for all time and under all cir¬
cumstances. As to the dangers of which Mr.
Clifford speaks* to some extent they are ad¬
mitted. Every “ control ” is a possession for
the time being, and sometimes the control is
bad and nearly permanent, thrusting out the
individuality, or deeply infecting it. But
Spiritualists very generally believe in the
spiritual guardianship of mediums, which,
if true, goes a long way to prove that this
phenomenal movement is not a disorderly
and aberrational inroad, but has been in¬
stituted and is protected by superior powers.
That “the coming fashionable religion will be a
combination of Spiritualism with materialism,
and that one of its chief characteristics will be
a bitter hatred and opposition to Christ,” is a
denunciation for which Mr. Clifford will not
easily find either evidence or probable rea¬
sons. As for materialism, it is more in
danger from a single powerful physical
medium than from a host of preachers,
theologians, and missionaries. The former
hands over the converted materialist to the
latter, when the work of religion begins, or is
then first possible. Spiritualism is neither
dogmatic nor anti-dogmatic. Whatever was
the case in the first surprise and inexperience
of the movement, we are all pretty well
agreed now that spirit teachings have in
themselves no authority, and in their theo¬
logical complexion they are as various as the
opinions of men on earth. That there is a
24
May 21, 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST.
great deal of anti-Christian sentiment among
Spiritualists is not the result of Spiritualistic
teachings, but arises simply from the fact
that Spiritualism is chiefly concerned in re¬
storing the belief in soul to people who had
lost that belief along with a prior rejection of
Christianity. It cannot do more for them,
and the emancipated intellect does not always
return to the totality of a discarded faith
on discovering that its negations have gone
too far. Free thought is not the offspring of
Spiritualism, though free-thinkers, being
more deeply obliged to Spiritualism for its
proofs, are likely always to figure more con¬
spicuously in its ranks. Thus their opinions
seem to give a tone to the movement which
is not its essential significance. If orthodox
Christianity is on the decline, as I believe it
is, that is due to intellectual causes with
which Spiritualism has no connexion. Our
battle is against materialism, and materialism
only. Other associations in sympathy with
Spiritualism on this essential point, have
other and further reaching aims, but these
are not now in question. If the orthodox
choose, as it seems they do, to join their
forces with materialists in reviling the only
agency that can deal effectually with the
latter, that is their affair. But it is desirable
that they should not do so under any excus¬
able misapprehension of our pretensions or
character.
Temple, 10th May.
AN UNCOMFORTABLE STORY.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal of May
8th, to hand by last mail, contains the fol¬
lowing narrative written by Mrs. E. C. Hyde,
of Smithfield, Virginia :—
As I see an occasional request in your
paper for incidents of a spiritual nature, I
have decided to send you a somewhat singular
one which occurred some years ago at Peters¬
burg, Va. A learned and very worthy
gentleman, whom we will call Mr. A., had
been educated for the ministry in a certain
faith. Some years after entering upon his
calling, he formed the acquaintance of a
clergyman of another denomination. As
their friendship ripened, Mr. A. became con¬
vinced that his was a wrong faith, and
adopted that of the other. This led to a
schism in the family—the wife and children
adhering to the original faith, while the
husband and father became an object of scorn,
though never swerving from his new faith.
Matters were in this disagreeable, unsettled
|?| state for several years, when a prominent
pi wealthy lady of the neighbourhood died.
! I Quite a strong friendship had existed between
|$j this lady and Mrs. A.. Mr. A. and family
|?| attended the funeral, which occurred late in
pj the afternoon. After returning home and
j>j taking the evening meal he retired, as was
K| his custom, to his study for the purpose of
PI reading. The book which he selected for the
1)1 evening was Jung Stilling, in which he read
Rj until about eleven o’clock, when, lowering
PI the hook a moment to reflect upon a passage
|>j which he had just read, a loud knock re-
I ] sounded upon the outer door. He proceeded
!<! slowly to the door, intending to administer a
PI severe rebuke to the person who had thus
|)| rudely disturbed him at so late an hour, but
i> I before he reached it a voice screamed, “ Open
Kj the door this minute, or I’ll tear the house
I?| down!” Hastily throwing open the door he
bl found “ darkness there and nothing more.”
K] Not a soul was visible, and utter silence
|?I reigned without. He closed the door and
!>! went back to his hook, but had not read long
| | when a cry of pain was heard in the nursery,
Kl and his little daughter, a child of seven or
Kj eight years, cried out, “ Papa, some one is
j>| choking me.” He hastened to the bed and
bj found the child nervous and excited as
\h though she had been struggling with some
i| one. Supposing her to have been the subject
| of nightmare, he placed her feet in a warm
| water hath, rubbed them dry, then returned
| her to bed and endeavoured to soothe her to
| sleep. As she still • remained restless, he
| sent for a physician who pronounced her per-
j fectly well, only nervous from a bad dream;
| gave her a mild sedative and said she would
I be all right in the morning. However,
j medical skill in this case as in so many others
| of a similar nature, proved of no avail. The
I child grew speedily worse and died in a day
I or two with no marked disease save nervous-
j ness, as the physician termed it.
Not long after this, Mr. A. was again read-
| ing Jung Stilling at the same hour as before,
| when having reached the identical passage of
I the previous occasion, the same knock was
I heard and the same threat repeated. Again
| he opened the door and found nothing there.
I He returned to his book when a cry of pain
I was again heard in the nursery, and a second
| daughter complained that the little sister who
! had just died was choking her. The father
applied the warm bath more thoroughly than
before and sent for the physician, who again
250
«
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 21, 1880.
pronounced it a “bad dream,” etc. The b
child continued to droop. Everything was K
done that thought could suggest, but to no k
purpose, for she too died in a short time. I)
This case has puzzled me exceedingly. It K
was evidently the work of spirits seemingly K
actuated by a desire for revenge, though I ])
cannot understand why, as Mr. A. is extremely |>
worthy, liberal minded, benevolent and greatly |s
admired by his intimate friends though un- jc
derstood by but few of them.
Among your many readers there are doubt- b
less those who will understand this case. Is
Should anyone deem it worth the while, I K
would be glad to see the explanation.
A CALCULATING BOY’S SECRET.
The Revue Spirite of May gives an account |)
of an extraordinary calculating boy, named |(
Jacques Inodi, ten years of age, and entirely K
uneducated ; his mother died, bis father for- I?
sook him, and for some time he gained a pre- j;
carious livelihood by visiting cafds in different js
towns in the South of France, and showing K
the visitors his calculating powers.
At length the master of acaf£, at Marseilles,
took the boy into his service, to their mutual K
advantage; now he is at Paris, and it is said j<
that the Anthropological Society is likely to j<
have him educated.
Jacques Inodi was born in Piedmont, in the K
Province of Coni. He is said to have “an |(
enormous skull, more developed on the right b
side that on the left.” An assertion fully >
borne out by his portrait, which is given from |s
a photograph, in the Revue of April.
A gentleman, named M. George, writing ;<*
from Marseilles, says :
“Persons who desire to know the number K
of minutes and seconds that they have lived k
do not puzzle him in the least; almost in- j>
stantaneously he gives the answer. That |S
which appeared most to fatigue him was simple Is
multiplication, rather a long sum, it is true. j<
He was asked to multiply 78,965,428 by \?
56,789.
“Hot having these numbers before his eyes, |s
and moreover, not being able to read, it was k
necessary to repeat them two or three times, b
until having remembered them, he could jS
repeat them alone himself. A moment after, K
he dictated this exact and long product, <
4,484,307,690,692,nothowever,without having |5
thought (cherche) a little, with an evidently K
laborious effort, which proves that he is not K
aided by mediumship.”
“ Medium or not,” however, M. George
continues “Jacques Inodi is not the less one
of the most convincing proofs of anterior
acquirements.” “ The phrenologists,” he adds,
“ will say that with so prominent a forehead,
and with the bump of calculation so developed,
all is explained.” But he thinks, also, that
“ they should not put forward as a cause that
which is but an effect.”
Medium or no medium, Jacques Inodi could
never demonstrate these problems, however
acquired, unless he had a brain proportioned
to his work, or what spirits call “ a good tool
to work with.” And probably no spirit could
put this marvellous faculty into a brain in
which the organ of calculation was deficient.
There is, however, a very interesting letter
in the Revue Spirite, of May, which reveals a
view of the question of mediumship or other¬
wise, doubly important because a solution of
it proceeds from the boy himself.
A M. Bouillac writes from Beze, near to
Cette, and says that a young woman came
into his house while Jacques was there, and
the boy said to her, “ Would you like me to
tell you how many minutes have passed since
you were born ? Tell me your age; come
now, let me know.” The young woman thus
interrogated answered, “twenty two years.”
“How many months and days?” the boy
added, “ Ah ! you don’t know. Well now,
in what year, what month and what day of
the month were you born ? ” The young
woman having answered, Jacques said, “ That
makes twenty two years, three months and
seventeen days.” He then held down his
head, and in twenty seconds he gave the num¬
ber of minutes. I took a note and made the
calculation ; it was exact. I remarked that
the child did not think or seek it, (he cherchait
pasj he was simplyattentive, he listened. I
said to him, “ my little friend it is not you
who make these calculations.” He looked me
full in the face without answering. I repeated
“ I know it is not you,” and leaning towards
him, and lowering my voice, I added, “ I talk
with the dead.” He looked at me, and
answered with a satisfied air : “ Do you talk
with the dead ? You ! Very well; yes, sir, it
is not I, it is my mother, who is dead that does
all this for me, that I may get my bread,” &c.
I asked him if he had told this to other people.
He answered, “ no,” and said that no one had
asked him; and turning round he cried:
(“ Tenez.”) “There is my mother, there she is.”
“ Ask her,” I said, “ if it pleases her to see you
with us?” But the spirit was gone. This
THE SPIRITUALIST.
251
May 21, 1880.
poor child told me about his family, and much
about his mother whom his father beat, &c., k
&c.
It would seem contrary to natural law that |>
this poor mother, when dead, should have js
this marvellous faculty of calculation, unless ]<
she had had it when living. May we suppose I)
then, that spirits with calculating power k
accompany the mother’s soul, or may even K
assume the presentment of the mother for the k
child’s satisfaction ?
By no means the least interesting details, |)
in reference to this interesting subject, are Is
contained in a note appended to M. Bouillac’s k
letter, given us by the editor of the Revue, j>
which is here subscribed:—
a On April 8th, we saw Jacques Inodi, at Is
the house of the astronomer, M. Camille I?
Flammarion, who, surrounded as he was by
men of science, put questions to this wondrous Is
calculator. The child is like his photograph Is
given in the Revue of April 1880; his eyes are k
sharp and sparkling with intelligence; he has l>
a quick, clever answer, and full of joy and j)
alacrity, he was able to imitate instantly, after js
having seen them once, the remarkable con- k
juring feats of Professor Jacobs, who is more |>
afraid of the eyes of this marvellous child jS
than he is of those of a company of savans.
u The boy since he has learned to read the l?l
figures, appears to calculate less easily. I
asked him if he remembered M. Bouillac, the Is
gentleman who talked with the dead ; he beg- js
ged me to tell him that he often thought of k
him, and made me also a secret confidant re- j>
specting his mother.
“ M. Flammarion put a long difficult problem j £
tohim that would have puzzled a mathematician; I ?
and in two minutes, the time that Jacques j>
asked, a precise soulution was given by this js
human calculating machine. He resolved all k
the problems while playing and laughing, and j?
while addressing Ions mots to those present, js
who, generally thought that this prodigious Is
faculty proceeded from other existences and js
anterior acquisitions.
“We had Jacques Inodi at one of the |)
Tuesday Meetings of our Scientific Society for js
Psychological Studies, namely the 20th of js
April last; he filled the two hundred and fifty I?
persons present with wonder. May this child, j;
so greatly endowed, be wisely protected by |s
those who have the right to direct him; his k
faculties might be diminished, and even, j?
perhaps, quite etiolated, if they should not D
understand how to manage him prudently.”
X. i
A SPIRITUALISTIC FUNERAL IN NEW
ZEALAND.
A novel and yet impressive burial service
was performed on Thursday afternoon last, in
the Southern Cemetery, JDunedin, over the
remains of the infant daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Braithwaite. When the coffin had
been lowered into the grave, Mr. Braithwaite
delivered the following address :—
“We have assembled on this spot, friends,
to inter the body of our infant daughter in its
natural home, to ultimately become component
parts of mother earth. However much we
wished to keep her here, we recognise only the
loving-kindness of God in thus freeing, by the
1 change called death,’ the infantile spirit of
our dear child from the sufferings it underwent,
and that by His wise, beneficent, and unerring
laws, the freed spirit has entered upon a state
of progressive existence suitable to its new
condition of life, to be tended and cared for by
earnest and willing friends gone before. We
are at this time impressed with the sublime and
deeply suggestive words attributed to Jesus
Christ—‘Suffer little children to come unto
Me, and forbid them not, for of such is the
kingdom of heaven.’ ”
Mr. Braithwaite then read with much feeling
and expression the following beautiful Hues by
John Pierpoint:—
I knew her fair face is hid,
Under the coffin lid ;
Closed are her eyes, cold is her forehead fair ;
My hand that marble felt,
O’er it in prayer I knelt;
Yet my heart whispers that she is not therei
Not there! where then is she ?
The form I used to see
Was but the raiment that she used to wear;
The grave that now doth press
Upon the cast-off dress,
Is but her wardrobe lock’d—she is not there.
She lives I in all the past
She lives! nor to the last,
Of seeing her again, will I despair;
In dreams I see her now,
And on her angel brow
I see it written—“ Thou shalt see me there.”
Yes, we all live to Gk>d;
Father, thy chastening rod,
So help us, thine afflicted ones, to bear,
That in the Spirit Land,
Meeting at Thy right hand,
’Twill be our heaven to find that she is there
The speaker then concluded as follows :—
“We now visibly consign her body to the
earth, ‘ dust to dust,’ and resign her spirit
with confidence to the mercy, justice, and im¬
mutable laws of the Great Father of us all.
Farewell! Invisibly her spirit will be ever
present.”—Saturday Advertiser, Dunedin.
252
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 21, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
&3 the late Wm.'Grbgorv, M.D., F.K..8.E., Pj-o/e»8or qf Chemistry at 'Edinburgh
TJniveraity.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
epiritualism.
Jast published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I: —First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II s—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Peelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful. Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympatheuc Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV :—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes —
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Ciairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V s—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Ac., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retfovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI.:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental $ Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—ffakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VHI:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Gauges—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—^Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientiflc Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Oases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—MagicMirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XHI:—Production of the Mesmeric^ Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—^Perception of Time—Cases j Six J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER xy:—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomenal-Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
SfwituaUtt Newspaper Branch Office, S3, Museum-street, London*
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
i) | In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
|); civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
i) i sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
!/; lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
:(; ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
j(l The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
K j Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
K j investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
; S: professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
iSi true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
i/i were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
l)| presence of mediums without being touched.
i?i Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Ii ’ j Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the hew metal
Hi thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
Hi professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
i)i Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
i)i forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist pr
;< I stranger to the family present.
Kj The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
Kj science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
Ki untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
pi private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
pi by any member of the family. At the present time there are
j)i only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
pi phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
pi tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
Ki be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
i(| the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
jS; protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
pi the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
p| which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
pi duped who trust in worthless authorities.
pi One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
pi ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
|ci new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
Kj tions, obtains the phenomena:—
K; 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
Ki tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle,
pi 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
pi the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufiicient
pi to allow everything to he seen clearly, round an uncovered
pi wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
Kj top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
I (i little importance. Any table will do.
iSj 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
pi but an acrid feeling against them is weakening,
pi 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
pi general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
i (i should be of a frivolous nature.
pi 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
•Ki feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
i (i indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
Ki 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
Ito avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean *• Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
i J three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
•pi from this time an intelligent system of communication is
i) i established.
p i 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
pi trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class ot
pi messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
||j usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
Ki objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
j (i the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
Ki to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
pi or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
i) i undeniable proof.
i)i 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seancesbecau£«
pi no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters,
{(i A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
i( i mesmeric influences.
s| Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
Ki not lovjrer their strength by sitting more than about twice a
Kj week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervoua
i 1 stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Mat 21, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting pnnishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the ' wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In¬
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
U1ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
I. in Spiritualism, by Christian Eeimers. One
Shilling.
is. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lanc, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
EESEARCHES IN THE PHENO¬
MENA OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price id.; Post free
for 1 Jd; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENOER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and j udge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: 8. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa-
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great RusseU-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, dally. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
HTHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colhy, editor; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.O
Price 3s. G<1. Imperial 8vo. Clotli, red edges, Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. Itcontainsmuch
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Kichinond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel -Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treheme) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVin.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe. „
XXV. —De Profupdis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated- by Emilj
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship ol
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies. D.D. .
XXX. —“My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epe;
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By tin
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice W orthingl oi
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation I
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII Spiritual Manifestations am one il
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Pr dc s.
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psych
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Hur.
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. 3
Alex. Calder.
XU.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy '
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makclouj.
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Waliar
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Bianch Office, I
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown Si
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Acad cm:,
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin a.
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerti
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the M ilan Society h
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, C.
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision —
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gnrda.
Part H.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XTV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXTII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
EEYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve d
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable t
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A .NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. 'tirade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instmetions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post-free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to “ drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con ¬
sequently irreligious age.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
May 21, 1880,
•iv
Accidental Indigestion
. BEFOBE AND AFTER THE
GHRISTMAS PUDDING,
■' | USE ’
ENO S FRUIT SALT
Eyery Travelling Trunk and Household in the "World
ought to contain a bottle of
EN O’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared 'from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-
giving, Copling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
■for any (Season. • _
It is the best’Pfeventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
1 i Sick ’Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers;-Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish-
• ness,'Mental depression, "Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &e.,
•i and to . remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
T^NO’S FRUIT SALT.—From fclie
J 1 Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used; yo.ur Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
yoiif statements. . The thanks of the public are due to
yon'for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long" may you live to be a blessing to the
World.”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SAET is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional ■weakness of
the liver. A .WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our .customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
■ How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
Ac., &c., use
END’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENb’S FRUIT SALT, wheu taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities} thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value; in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injudous effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by. natural means).- Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. { You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENG’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de i'*- (f’aix,, Paris.—A. Gentleman called in
yesterday. ** "is a-constant sufferer from "chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral, waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received fgreat .benefit. He. says, he .never
knew what’it" was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for-the future’-shall never be without it
in the house.”—M- Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— ‘‘After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and .after, try¬
ing almost" everything and spending much money
without finding any.benefit, I was recommended by.a
friend to'try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it "doing me'a great "deal of
gpod, and now I am,restored to my usual health; and .
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such "
good health for, years,—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys; Post Office, Barrasford.” .
“ OUCGESS IN LIFE.’.’—A new in-
vention is brought before'the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous," who, in
copying the - original: closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly'as to infringe upon
legal, rights, exercise an ingenuity- that, employed in
an (original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit;—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine, each bottle and tee the capsule,it
tnarktd■“ENQ’S FMUIT SALT.’\'Withqut,yoii have
■ been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. &d. .
Prepared only by J. 0. END’S
. PATENT, at END’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS) Hatch&m, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and;
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Q-raphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device ,on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song oi
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—i. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.--?. How Hadji al Shaca-i
bac was Ihotographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business'
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Dcr:
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Yision.
—23. .“Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence!
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Eallads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30, The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the:
book in a review nearly a column long, says.—‘ ‘Cornier
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse-j
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a!
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
arc pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced,
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-,
street. Both the verses and ihe short essays aie;
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds oiquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and sols The Lay of the Mace-bearcrt; but one;
of the most laughable kits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.*-
Price 6d.; post free 7^d. ; cloth.
• Prize Essays.
nPHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OFi
JL SPIRITUALISM • UPON THE SOCIAL/
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OB
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
■ These Essays won the FiSst and Secon)) Gbito
MedAi.s'.of the British National AssocfATioN otj
Sr i RITUALISTS.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, • 33,i
Museum-street, London, W.C;
IND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in PhiladelphiarPenns.
U.S.A. A Special,'Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-’street: J.
M. Roberts, Buplisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any’part’ofj Great (Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings." (Send Internatioparptpstai
Order.) -Sample copies free. .,
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A.HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
DW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBEOK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager. ’
Southampton-buildings, Chaiicery-larie.  
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
'Ihe Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares..
, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
T UNACY LAW REFORM
JLi ASSOCIATION, 64, Berners-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W O. Attendance at the
last address daily from2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe, Hon. Sec. , .
MPHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
J- OR. THE .TWO , CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains-a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men." A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6^d. The Spi/ritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, Xondon, W.C. "j
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33; Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of-his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of ihe absolute reality of
the phenomena, hut also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of fact's are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the hook (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
An Oracular Standard 24l
intelligent Mahoganyin Paris....1...242
/Paragraphs:—Strange Hallucination.......242
1 Joan Of Arc..I.'.'.;...246
Correspondence s—The Physiology/and ’Morality ...f,
' ’ of Physical Medihinship243
.. A Clairvoyant..Seance;:.243
Synchronous Visions  ....'.:248
The. Apparitions and Cures at Knock,.;..'..'.....’.....: 244
Clairvoyance. , By The Hon. Percy, Wyndham, ji
/. M.P.     246
Temporarily Materialised Spirit Hands..;;.......;... 247
Religious: Hostility- to Spiritualism. By C. C. j
;Massey ;.$j.'.."..:......V.'.,.r. 247
An Uncomfortahlq. Story.....'..'............;..;..'...'!...'..... 249
A Calculating Boy’s Secret.....    *t25B
A Spiritualistic Funeral in New Zealand;?..' 251
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews,-at
the, ^Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-.streeir,
!r Bloomsbury:, London, W.C., and.publishedFy E. WT.
‘ AEiENj Avy'Maria.-iane, pdndon,'.E;C.~_,i tCS , A..U
