BEOJBriKED as a Newspaper.
SK© joUS^fS^ otf ©^YCiSoi<o^idSi<
&§£ (SHittsf ixritlj Spintwalism m <$xmt §nfaiit4
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xx, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuvedes Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia
ROME : Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light" Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal’’
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 3ig, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 336. (Vol. XIY.—No.fi.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Social Spiritualism 
A Remarkable Case of Double Consciousness    
The Hauntings at Woodstock '.   
Spring. By Dollie Maitland. (Poetry.) 
The Psychological Ideas in the Sacred Poetry of Ancient
Oriental Races. By 0. J. Plumptre, Lecturer on
Public Speaking at King's College    ...
A Private Seance    ...
To Another the Gift of Healing. By J. A. Campbell ... ...
Healing Mediumship. By W. H. Harrison  
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Possessed ...
Private Theatricals  ’  ...  
Imitations of Spiritual Phenomena by Jugglery 
Spiritual Manifestations Inside a Sealed Box 
Correspondence :—Captain Burton’s “ Ifs ”—Madame Bla-
vatsky—Testing Physical Mediums—Spirit Identity—
The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism—Spiritualism in
Glasgow   ...    ... 55
Newcastle-on-Tyne Spiritual Evidence Society  59
The Constitution of the Psychological Society  59
Spiritual Phenomena in Australia  60
Answers to Correspondents ..;  60
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record oj the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
•THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess oi
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Oourt of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksauof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Slake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ol
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling"
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson.'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United ^Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
In the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOffice, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. L, by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
The Offices of the Association will be open between the
hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except
Saturday, when they will be open between the hours of 10 a.m.
and 1 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR FEBRUARY, 1879.
Monday, Snf.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
A paper will be read by Miss Kislingbury
on “ Apparitions of the Living."
Friday, 7th.—Experimental Research Committee at
6.80 p.m.
Tuesday, Wth,—House and Offices Committee at 5 p.m.
„ „ Soirde Committee at 5.30 p.m.
,, „ Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 14fA, and every succeeding Friday.—Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.30.
Monday, \7th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kisling-
bury's paper—“Apparitions of the
Living."
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes era route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 3s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
Thb Religion of Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, JV.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. 4. January. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion ? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. C. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V. —Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Moutanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
A YOUNG GENTLEMAN will be glad of any
office, manuscript, or literary employment. Highest
references. Address A. B. C,, Sherborne Lodge, Tracey-street,
Kennington-road, London.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berner s-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
ftad Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief,
AH particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W,
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858), From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co. London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living."
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislingbury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism."
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2."
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
Circle, No. 3."
April 21.—Mr. C. C. Massey. “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.. “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can lie
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms :—& Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ac., Ac.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCKSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
Stove and Range Maker,
1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings.
BIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851.—-
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application,
j FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
49
49
50
51
52
54
54
54
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, diaries Parkfleld, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas,Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Oerald, Mrs., 19. Cambrldpe-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G-> M.s.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall.21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood Mrs.. 32, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeneken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, 0. G , Barrister-at-taw, HaBCOurt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D.,Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
' mad. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newoastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F,, The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,1
Blnney, F. A.. 24, St Anns-square, Manchester,
Bonwick, J„ F.R.G.S.
Chapman, John, 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 3, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lvnwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oherstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 39, Tufhell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Knn, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton. R., 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., fi. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate,N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shoote.r’s-hlll, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 88. Great. Russell-street.
Havle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton. Miss, 20. Delamere-creseent. Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Istiam, Sir Charles. Bar' f.amnort-hall, Northampton.
.Toad. G. C.. Oakfleld, Wimbledon. S.W.
Lsmont, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lowe, Mrs., 84. Bemers-street, W.
Maltbv, Mrs.. 81, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71. Richmond-rond. Dalston.
Morse, J J,, Elm Tree-terrace. TTttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W, Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, ‘Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool
Newton. W., n, -Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C„ IS. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill. W. C., 3. Blandford-square, N.W.
Refiners. Christian, 47, Mornington-mad Regent’s-park.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Morell. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granvllle-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen. R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, SW.
Turner,.!. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. T , 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W,
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedfl.
Wilson, D. H., lit.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West. Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme.square, Bayswater, W.
Withal!, Miss TT., i. The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. JohnVroad, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treatwrer.
Alex. Caldor, Esq., I, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W". Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Klsllnghury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, KhandeRassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobltz, tei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstuhhe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veb, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastian© Eenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic, Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Brltten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Rlko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague. Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Llndesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,983, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,M.D.,196,Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn,New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa,
j. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A,
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq.,.11, Rue Andrleux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris. ,
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.,9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelies.
Lieut-Col. P. Jacoby, 11 - Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 31, 1879.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee. Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Glouoester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.'VV'.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul. Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hiU,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epcjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54. Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Unlon Splrite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Slgdon-road, Dalston-Iane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.. Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Government prosecutions for
MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P.", and others.
Forty pp., Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It Is most blest, most holy, most divme.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state oj trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., Ac. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN, '
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o'clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
1%/rDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
-LtJL At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Applioation
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing .and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
MRS. M. G. PARKER, MESMERIC
HEALER and DEVELOPING MEDIUM, 22, Hart-
street, Bloomsbury-square, London. Hours 12 to 6.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can he made
by letter sent to the above address.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Niohols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Oampden-kill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the soienoe
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-plaoe, Blooms¬
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
JLX. ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Boglno, No. 28.
R
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSVCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of seienoe.
price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mctze. London: The
spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE, a narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. — Terms on
application.
EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £Z per week
each; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de ia Cos-
sonnerie, Paris.
Ino 336.—Volume Fourteen; Dumber Five.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 31st, 1879.
SOCIAL SPIRITUALISM. |
All human experience proves that social custom is a j<
stronger force than political power, and that when the two !1
are brought into violent conflict, the political power is h
sooner or later overthrown. There is therefore reason why |!
every effort should be made to foster the growth of the social |;
aspects of Spiritualism; it should be a movement connected
with family life, and made to spread from home to home,
rather than from public meeting to public meeting. The
professional mediums, whose manifestations and personal I
character deserve it, should have as many regular engage- |
ments as possible in the homes of Spiritualists, so that I
inquirers who wish to see them can be present only by pri¬
vate invitation, and not at their own will and pleasure, j
Perhaps it is not possible to stop public stances entirely, but |
the best mediums should be so well supported in other ways
that they will receive strangers only by written introduction,
and be thus protected from the remnant of the spirit of per¬
secution yet abroad in the world. If these principles be j
generally adopted, political and other external powers will |
have no means of persecution except by trying to intrude j
into private homes ; any attempt of that kind will rouse the j
indignation of every grade of society, and will assuredly fail.
Drawing-room meetings next season in connection with |
Spiritualism would confer considerable strength.
A REMARKABLE CASE OF DOUBLE CONSCIOUSNESS. j
To the Editor of “ The Religio-Philosophical Journal," January 11, 1879. ( j
Lottsville, Penn. ) j
I send you a copy of a letter, it being a- compilation of j
facts addressed by the Rev. Timothy Alden to Dr. Samuel L. j
Mitchell, of New York. I would state that Mr. Alden was a j
prominent Presbyterian clergyman, an early settler at Mead- j
ville, Crawford county, Pa., and founder of Alleghany I
College, now under the control and patronage of M. E. j
Church. I have a personal recollection of the reverend j
gentleman, he having several times visited at my father’s, j
when I was a boy of some twelve years of age. |
If you consider the letter of sufficient importance, you are | j
at liberty to publish it, as it is a matter of public notoriety, j j j
having been published in the Pennsylvania Historical j I
Collections of 1843, page 254, now before me, and from | i
which I copy. Daniel Lott. j I
Meadville, Penn., June 21st, 1816. I
Dear Sir,—I now do myself the pleasure to give you an
account of a very singular case. Possibly you may have
met with something analogous to it in your researches, but
so far as my inquiries have extended it is without a parallel.
Mr. William Reynolds, his wife and children, composing a j
respectable family, originally citizens of Birmingham, Great j j
Britain, settled in the vicinity of Oil Creek, twenty-seven i j
miles from this village, in the year 1798. Miss Mary i j
Reynolds, one of his daughters, a worthy young lady, an j j
inmate of the family of her brother John Reynolds, Esq., j |
one of my nearest neighbours, is the subject of this com- ! !
munication, upon which I shall be happy to see your i j
animadversions. For five years she has exhibited the j \ j
phenomena of a person vested with a twofold consciousness, | j
or more definitely with two distinct consciousnesses. 111
I became acquainted with- Miss Reynolds soon after my j |
removal to this place, in 1815, when she was in the exercise ||
of her original consciousness, the last evening of which she j j
spent at my house. The following evening I was at her i I
brother’s, where there was a considerable Company, of which she !) |
was one. To my surprise, when I spoke to her, she had no j
knowledge of me ; I was, therefore, introduced to her anew. | j
My curiosity was excited, and it was gratified by a history of I
her singular case, of which you will please accept the subse¬
quent concise narrative:—
After arriving at adult age she was occasionally afflicted
with fits, but of what particular name I have not been able
satisfactorily to ascertain. In the spring of 1811, she had a
very severe visitation of this kind—her frame was greatly
convulsed, and she was extremely ill for several days, when
her sight and hearing left her, she becoming totally blind
and deaf. During twelve weeks, from the time of the fit
mentioned, she continued in a very feeble state ; but at the
end of five weeks the use of her visual and auditory faculties
were perfectly restored. A more remarkable dispensation of
Providence, however, awaited her. A little before the
expiration of the twelve weeks, one morning, when she
awoke, she appeared to have lost all recollection of every¬
thing that she ever knew. Her understanding, with an
imperfect knowledge of speech, remained; but her father,
mother, brothers, sisters, and neighbours were altogether
strangers to her. She had forgotten the use of written lan¬
guage, and did not know a single letter of the alphabet, nor
how to discharge the duties of any domestic employment
more than a new-born babe. She, however, presently began
to regain various kinds of knowledge. She continued five
weeks in this way, when suddenly she passed from the
second state—for distinction it may be so-called—into her
first. All consciousness of the five weeks just elapsed was
totally gone, and her original consciousness was fully
restored.
Now the cloud which had overspread her mental hemi¬
sphere was dissipated. Her kindred and friends were at
once recognised; every kind of knowledge which she had
ever acquired was as much at her command as at any former
period of her life; but of the time and all the events which
had transpired during her second state she had not the most
distant idea. For three weeks, to the comfort of herself and
the family, she continued in her first state, but in her sleep
the transition was renewed, and she awoke in her second
state. As before, so now, all knowledge acquired in her
first state was forgotten, and of the circumstances of her
three weeks’ lucid interval she had no conception, but of the
small fund of knowledge she had gained in the former second
state, she was able to avail herself, and she continued from
day to day to add to this little treasure. From the spring
of 1811 the subject of this address has been in this wonderful
condition, frequently changing from her first to her second,
and from her second to her first state; more than three-
quarters of her time she has been in her second state. There
is no periodical regularity as to the transition. Sometimes
she continues several months and sometimes a few weeks, a
few days, or only a few hours, in her second state ; but in
the lapse of five years she has been at no one instance more
than twenty days in her first state.
Whatever knowledge she has acquired at any time in her
second state is familiar to her whenever in that state, and
now she has made such proficiency, she is as well acquainted
with things, and is in general as intelligent, in her second
as in her first state. It is about three years since an attempt
was first made to reteach her chirography. Her brother
gave her a name, which he had written for her to copy. She
readily took a pen, agreeably to his request, and it is a fact
that she actually began to write it, though in a very awkward
manner from the right hand to the left, in the Hebrew mode.
It was not long before she obtained a tolerable skill in pen¬
manship, and in her second state often amuses herself in
writing poetry, yet in her first state this is an exercise which
she seldom, if ever, attempts. It may be remarked that she
acquires all kinds of knowledge in her second state' with
much greater facility than would a person never before in¬
structed. In her second state she has now been introduced
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 31, 1879.
to many persons whom she always recognises when in that |
state, and no one appears to enjoy the society of friends j
better than this young lady; but if ever so well known to
herin her first state she has no knowledge of them in her !
second till an acquaintance, de now, is formed; and in like S
manner all acquaintances formed in her second state must
be formed in her first also in order to be known in that.
This astonishing transition, scores of times repeated,
always takes place in her sleep. In passing from her second j
to her first state, nothing is particularly noticeable in her I
sleep, but in passing from her first to her second state, her
sleep is so profound that no one can wake her, and it not
unfrequently continues eighteen or twenty hours. She has
generally some presentiment of the change, and frequently
for several days before the event. Her sufferings, formerly I
in the near prospect of the transition from either the one or J
the other states, were extreme. When in one state she had 1
no consciousness of ever having been in the other; but of the
wonderful fact she was persuaded on the representation of !
her friends. Hence, when about to undergo the transition, j
fearing she should never revert so as to know again in I
this world those who were dear to her, her feelings in this j
respect wefe not unlike the feelings of one entering the Yalley j
of the Shadow of Death ; but she has now passed so often j
from one state to the other, that she does not anticipate the ] j
change with that horror or distressing apprehension with ' j
which for a considerable time she used to do. J j
As an evidence of her ignorance in her second state at an }
early period, she was once walking at a little distance from j
her father’s house, and discovered a rattlesnake. She was [!
delighted at the beautiful appearance of this, to her, unknown j
dangerous reptile, and sprang forward to catch it. For- j
tunately the serpent lay near a hole under a log, and as she !
seized it by the rattle it thrust its head in, and she was not |
able to draw it out. At another time she was riding in a i
narrow path alone, in the woods, and met a bear which did j
not seem disposed to give her the path. She boldly rode up |
to the huge animal, and in a very imperious style ordered j
him out of the way, and she was upon the point of dis- J |
mounting to belabour him with her whip, when he peaceably 1 j
te cleared off.” j
This young lady is naturally of a cheerful disposition, but I
thoughtful. In her second state her imagination glows, her j j
wit is keen, her remarks are often shrewd and rational, and
her prejudices, conceived without cause against her best j1 |
friends, are sometimes very strong. 111
(Signed) Timothy Alden. ! j I
Says the author: “ The young lady is still living (1843), I !
is of sane mind and in good health, and is teacher in a school. 11 j
She has had no return of her peculiar insanity for many j J j
years.” j j
The above is a true copy. Daniel Lott.
THE HAUNTINGS AT WOODSTOCK.
A recent number of the Foresters' Miscellany contains a j
clever article by Mrs. C. A. White on “A Few Trees that i ]
have their Stories.” Among several curious incidents the ! j
authoress gives an account of occurrences in connection j j
with the famous Woodstock oak that are not without interest | j
to Spiritualists, who probably will consider that it requires j J j
more credulity to believe in the legerdemain of the secretary ]
than to accept the phenomena described as veritable spiritual j
manifestations. The following narrative is from Plott’s
Bistory of Oxfordshire, and the details are given at greater j
length in the preface to one of Sir Walter Scott’s novels:— I
“ Soon after the murder of King Charles I. a commission !
was appointed to survey the King’s house at Woodstock, j
with the manor, park, woods, and other demesnes to that j
manor belonging, and one Collins, under a feigned name, j
hired himself as secretary to the Commissioners, who, upon
the 13th of October, 1649, met, and took up their residence !
in the King’s own rooms ; his majesty’s bed-chamber they j
made their kitchen, the council hall their pantry, and the j
presence chamber was the place where they sat for the j
dispatch of business. His majesty’s dining-room they made j
their wood-yard, and stored it with the wood of the famous
royal oak from the High Park, which, that nothing might |
be left with the name of king about it, they had dug up by '
the roots, and split and bundled up into faggots for their
firing. Things being thus prepared, they sat on the 16th of
the same month for the dispatch of business, and in the
midst of their first debate there entered a large black dog
(as they thought), which made a dreadful howling, over¬
turned two or three of their chairs, and then crept Under a
bed and vanished. This gave them the greater surprise, as
the doors were kept constantly locked, so that no real dog
could get in or out. The next day their surprise was in¬
creased, when sitting at dinner in a lower room, they heard
plainly the noise of persons walking over their heads, though
they well knew the doors were all locked, and there could
be nobody there; presently after they heard also all the
wood of the King’s park brought by parcels from the
dining-room, and thrown with great violence into the
presence chamber; as also all the chairs, stools, tables,
and other furniture forcibly hurled about the room;
their own papers of the minutes of their transactions
torn and the ink-glass broken. When all this noise
had some time ceased Giles Sharp, their secretary,
proposed to enter first into these rooms, and in presence of
the commissioners, of whom he received the keys, he opened
the doors, and found the wood spread about the room, the
chairs tossed about and broken, the papers torn, the ink-
glass broken (as has been said), but not the least trace of any
human creature, nor the least reason to suspect one, as the
doors were all fast, and the keys in the custody of the com¬
missioners. It was therefore unanimously agreed that the
power who did this mischief must have entered the room at
the keyhole. The night following, Sharp, the secretary, with
two of the Commissioners’ servants, as .they were in bed in
the same room, which room was contiguous to that where the
Commissioners lay, had their beds feet lifted up so much
higher than their heads, that they expected to have their necks
broke; and then they were let fall at once with so much
violence as shook the whole house, and more than ever
terrified the Commissioners. On the night of the 19th, as all
were in bed in the same room for greater safety, and lights
burning by them, the candles in an instant went out with a
sulphureous smell, and that moment many trenchers of wood
were hurried about the room, which next morning were found
to be the same their honours had eaten on the day before,
which were all removed from the pantry, though not a lock
was found open in the whole house. The next night they
fared still worse; the candles went out as before, the curtains
of their honours’ beds were rattled to and fro with great
violence, their honours received many cruel blows and
bruises by eight great pewter dishes and a number of wooden
trenchers being thrown on their beds, which being heaved
off, were heard rolling about the room, though in the
morning none of these were to be seen. This night, like¬
wise, they were—alarmed with the tumbling down of
oaken billets about their beds, and other frightful noises, but
all was clear in the morning as if no such thing had happened.
The next night the keeper of the King’s house and his dog
lay in the Commissioners’ room, and then they had no dis¬
turbance. But on the night of the 22nd, though the dog
lay in the room as before, yet the candles went out, a
number of brickbats fell from the chimney into the room,
the dog howled piteously, their bedclothes were all stripped
off, and their terror increased. On the 24th they thought all
the wood of the King’s oak was violently thrown down by
their bedsides; they counted 64 billets that fell, and some
hit and shook the beds in which they lay; but in the morn¬
ing none were found there, nor had the door been opened
where the billet wood was kept. The next night the candles
were put out, the curtains rattled, and a dreadful crack like
thunder was heard, and one of the servants running to see
if his master were not killed, found three dozen trenchers
laid smoothly under the quilt by him, but all was nothing
to what succeeded afterwards. The 29th, about midnight,
the candles went out, something walked majestically through
the room and opened and shut the windows; great stones
were thrown violently into the room, some of which fell on
the beds, others on the floor; and at about a quarter after one
a noise was heard as of forty cannon discharged together,
and again repeated at about eight minute’s distance. This
alarmed and raised all the neighbourhood, who coming into
their honours’ room gathered up the great stones, four score
THE SPIRITUALIST.
51
Jan. 31,1879.
in number, and laid them by in the corner of a field, where, ! j |
in Dr. Plott’s time, who reports this story, they were to be | j j
seen. This noise, like the discharge of cannon, was heard j j |
through all the country for 16 miles round. During these j j I
noises which were heard in both rooms together, the Com- j |!
missioners and their servants gave one another over for lost, j j j
and cried out for help, and Giles, snatching up a sword, had | < 1
well-nigh killed one of their honours, mistaking him for the | ? I
spirit as he came in his shirt from his own room to theirs, j i
While they were together the noise was continued, and part j I
of the tiling of the house was stripped off, and all the HI
windows of an upper room were taken away with it. On )11
the 30th, at midnight, something walked into the chamber j i j
treading like a bear; it walked many times about, then threw | j;
the warming-pan violently on the floor; at the same time a | ]
large quantity of broken glass, accompanied with great stones | i
and horses’ bones came pouring into the room with un- j r
common force; these were all found in the morning to the j;
astonishment and terror of the Commissioners, who were yet 1
determined to go on with their business. But on the 1st of j > I
November the most dreadful scene of all ensued; candles in | j
every part of the room were lighted up and a great fire j i
made; at midnight, the candles all yet burning, a noise !
like the burst of a cannon was heard in the room, and j |
the burning billets were tossed about by it even into 11 j
their honours’ beds, who called Giles and his companions I !
to their relief, or otherwise the house had been burnt to j
the ground. About an hour after, the candles went out j j
as usual, the crack as of many cannon was heard, and j j j
many pailfuls of green stinking water were thrown upon j (j
their honours’ bed; great stones were also thrown in as | j
before, the bed-curtains and bedstead torn and broken, j i
the windows shattered, and the whole neighbourhood alarmed ] j
with the most dreadful noises; nay, the very rabbit-stealers I j |
that were abroad that night in the warren were so terrified j j I
that they fled for fear, and left their ferrets behind them, jh
One of their honours this night spoke, and in the name of j j
God asked what it was, and why it disturbed them so ? No j
answer was given to this, but the noise ceased for awhile, 111
when the spirit came again, and, as they all .agreed, brought j 11
with it seven devils worse than itself. One of the servants I (j
now lighted a large candle and set it in the doorway between j j |
the two chambers to see what passed, and as he watched it j j j
he plainly saw a hoof striking the candle and candlestick i j j
into the middle of the room, and afterwards making three j j!
scrapes over the snuff, scraped it out. Upon this the same j j
person was so bold as to draw a sword, but he had scarcely j j
got it out when he felt another invisible hand had hold of it I j j
too, and pulled with him for it, and at length prevailing, j j
struck him so violently on the head with the pummel, that I !
he fell down for dead with the blow. At this instant there | j
w7as heard another burst like the discharge of the broadside ! | j
of a ship of war, and about a minute or two’s distance each, ! j!
no less than nineteen more such ; these shook the house so 11|
violently that they expected every moment it would fall upon j \ j
their heads. The neighbours on this, as has been said, being I} j
all alarmed, flocked to the house in great numbers, and all j j j
joined in praying and psalm-singing, during which the noise ! j j
still continued in the other rooms, though no visible agent was I j |
seen to discharge them. But what was the most alarming of j
all, and put an end to their proceedings effectually, happened j \ j
next day as they were all at dinner, when a paper in which j | j
they had signed a mutual agreement to reserve a part of the | i|
premises out of the general survey, and afterwards to share I (I
it equally among them (which paper they had hid for the I) j
present under the earth in a pot in one corner of the room, j | j
and in which an orange tree grew), was consumed in a j (j
wonderful manner by the earth taking fire, with which the I > ]
pot was filled, and burning violently with a blue fume, and | j j
an intolerable stench, so that they were all driven out of IH
the house, to which they could never be again prevailed upon j) j
to return.” I<j
This wonderful contrivance was all the invention of the |j |;
memorable Joseph Collins, of Oxford, otherwise called funny »m
Joe, who, having hired himself for secretary, under the 111
name of Giles Sharp, by knowing the private traps belong- j j I
ing to the house, and the help of pulois Julminansj and other ; Ilf
chemical preparations, and letting his fellow-servants into j j I
the scheme, carried on the deceit, without discovery, to the I) I
very last, insomuch that the late Dr. Plott, in his Natural
History j relates the whole for facts.
SPRING.
BT DOLLIE MAITLAND.
Our fairest things must fade and die—
So bards and poets say—
And hands that nursed the sweetest flowers
Must bury them away;
And ears that loved the softest strain
Must hear the song grow strange,
And hearts once full of golden light
Be shadowed by the change;
And youthful brows must furrowed be,
And eyes no more be bright,
For rosy morning quickly dies,
And passes into night.
But thou, thou happy, joyous Spring,
Thou wilt not wholly die,
Till the sea forgets to murmur,
The troubled winds to sigh.
Though we lose thee for a little,
Thou comest back again,
With sylvan beauties in thy path,
And wood-nymphs in thy train.
We mark no change upon thy face,
No wrinkle on thy brow;
Thy beauty, as it ever was,
Dawns gently on us now.
We know not where thy feet have been,
Since we beheld thee last;
We know not where thy fragrant wings
Have fluttered in the past;
But thou hast come, and as of old,
With tender blossoms drest,
With harebells twining round thy brow,
And snowdrops on thy breast:
With golden wreaths of petals bright,
With breezes fresh and sweet,
And violets hanging modestly
About thy dewy feet.
Now brooklets ripple through the glen,
Rejoicing in their birth,
And sunbeams whisper to the air
Sweet thoughts that touch the earth;
The earth awakes with soft delight,
She knows the sunbeams bring
A faint and holy memory
Of songs the angels sing:
Of songs our spirits may not hear,
Until our chains are riven,
Until our souls soar far away,
And reach the gates of Heaven.
The old man now forgets his age,
His worn face smiles with joy,
As he recalls his happy dreams,
His “ spring-time,” when a boy;
And they whose sunny days are o’er,
Whose race is well nigh-run,
Still smile to see their children smile,
As they themselves have done.
For every heart holds some soft voice,
That wakens in the spring,
And sighs its own sweet melody
When birds begin to sing.
Mr. C. E. Williams has returned to town, and holds seances on
Thursdays and Saturdays as usual.
Miss Ross, who gives such remarkable psychometric delineations of
character, has recently been in London, on a visit to Dr. and Mrs.
Nichols at West Brompton.
Mr. J. W. Fletcher’s Sunday evening services at the Cavendish
Rooms, London, are well attended. Last Sunday every seat was
occupied. He informs us that next Sunday, at 11.30 a.m., he will hold
a class meeting for children and adults. He wishes all who are interested
in Children’s Lyceums to communicate with him at 4, Bloomsbury-
place, London, W C.
52
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 31, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL IDEAS IN THE SACRED POETRY !
OF ANCIENT ORIENTAL RACES.*
BY C. J. PLUMPTKE, LECTURER ON PUBLIC SPEAKING AT KING’S COLLEGE.
Who can rightly define what true poetry is ? Who shall
limit its influence or deny its right to take the first and
highest rank among those powers by which the soul of man
is exalted and refined ? Is there one passion of the heart-
beyond its control—one emotion of human nature beyond
its reach of grasp? As the sea is gently stirred by the
summer gale, or lashed by the winter’s storm, and leaps
into life, activity, and motion, so from the soul of man, when
agitated by deep feeling or passionate emotion, break forth j
the strong waves of poetical metaphor and expression.
Lord Kaimes well remarks that when a man is perfectly
cool and sedate, he is not much disposed to poetical flights,
nor to sacrifice truth and reality to imaginary beauties ; far ;
less is he so disposed when oppressed with care or interested !
in some important transaction that engrosses him wholly. On I
the other hand a man when elevated or animated by passion j
is disposed to elevate or animate all his objects; he avoids j
familiar names, exalts objects by circumlocution or metaphor, j
and gives even life and voluntary action to inanimate beings, j
In this heat of mind the highest poetical flights are indulged j
in, and the boldest similes and metaphor relished. I
Now, what is here said of man generally holds good of all j
nations and in all times, and of none more truly than the j
great Semitic race in which the Hebrew tribes are embraced, j
They were a people of strong passions and emotions, of deep 1
religious feelings, and acute sensibilities and perceptions j|
also in regard to the external world. Look into their j
historical records, among the oldest authentic writings in j
the world, and you can scarcely open a single page, no matter I
in what book, without finding ample evidence of their j i
profound sentiment of love for nature, as well as adoration t I
of nature’s God. View these books either individually I
or collectively, and they are, as a rule, the most j
ancient, the most venerable monuments of poetic j
feeling and creative fancy with which we are acquainted, j
If you ask where this sentiment is most nobly and visibly |
manifested, I answer—in their pastoral effusions, in their |
hymns of praise, in their choral songs, in all the splendour of j
lyric poetry in the Psalms of David, and in the schools of |
seers and prophets, whose exalted inspiration, as the great j
Humboldt remarks, almost wholly removed from the past, !
turns its prophetic aspirations to the future. j
But I have specially selected the poetry of the Hebrews as j
a fitting subject for a lecture, because, independently of its j
intrinsic beauty, its innate sublimity, it offers to us especially i
the attraction of being linked by the closest ties with all |
those reminiscences which are associated with the local seat |
of the religion professed by the believers in the four most I
widely diffused religions in the world—the Jewish, the i
Indian, the Christian, and the Mahommedan. There is !
this striking peculiarity in the Hebrew poetry, that as j
clearly as the broad calm lake reflects the bright image j<
of the noon-day sun, so does it reflect the Unity. And |
further, as a reflex of this monotheistic idea, it embraces i >
also the whole universe in its entirety and unity, from the !
glittering stars and planets in the illimitable fields of space, |
to this earth which we inhabit, and the myriad forms of life j
which it sustains. Test this assertion: look into the mind i
and writings of the Hebrew poet, and you will find that in j j
general his tone is lofty, solemn, and full of a wondrous ! ;
power and pathos. He dwells but rarely on the single | |
isolated acts of nature, the individuality of phenomena; he In
prefers rather the contemplation of great masses in the j
aggregate. He does not, like some of the classic poets, j j
present nature as a self-evolving, self-dependent object, j j
glorious in its individual sublimity and beauty, but still | j
self-sustaining. No, his aim is something higher than this; j j!
he calls on you to look at nature as the work of Divine j j i
creation and superintendence, the living expression of the | I
omnipresence of the Deity in the visible universe, j j
Thus, then, from a necessary law, I may say from the very j |
nature of the subject, the poetry of the Hebrews is grand | j
and sad and solemn; and nowhere more so than when it j (j
treats of man and his condition on the globe—ever aspiring j j
to something higher, something nobler than he feels he can j j
j ever be on earth. It is truly remarked, indeed, that the
Hebrew poetry, notwithstanding its grandeur, and the lofty
tone of exultation to which it is often elevated by the charm
of music, scarcely ever loses the restraint of measure, as
does the poetry of the Hindoos. Devoted to the pure con¬
templation of the Divinity, it remains clear and simple in
the midst of the most figurative expression, delighting in
comparisons which recur with almost rhythmical regularity.
Where, let me ask, will you find more true, more pic¬
turesque, more faithful representations of the scenery and
general character of the country in which they were com¬
posed? They reflect all this as truly as the placid lake
reflects the lofty mountains by which it is surrounded. As
you read these wondrous records of the past, you seem to
see the alternations of barrenness and fertility—the sunny
plains and the Alpine forests by which the land of Palestine
is characterised. In their pages you have in regular suc¬
cession all the changes of climate by which the country is
affected. You see the primitive rites, manners, and customs
of this shepherd race, with all their pastoral affections and
all their hereditary aversion to settled agricultural pursuits.
Take up any of their epic or historical narratives, and with
what a beautiful simplicity they are graced, and with what
true colours they paint nature.
But now if you turn to the lyrical poetry of the Hebrews
—such as the Psalms of David—you will find there more
glowing imagery, more picturesque description, a richer
conception, a more animated embodiment of the life of
nature. There is one psalm, indeed (104th), in which the
great traveller Humboldt used to say he found the whole
image of the Cosmos. Well may we be astonished in a
lyrical poem of such great antiquity to find in so small a
compass the earth, the heavens, the whole universe sketched
by a few bold touches. This is, indeed, word-painting of
the simplest but highest order.
You see here in striking contrast the life and action of
the various elements of nature, and the monotonous life and
labour of man from dawn to sunset. You will find the
Psalms abounding in passages such as these, and amongst
the most striking are the 65th and 74th.
But of all wonderful records of remote antiquity for its
beauty of generalisation, its minuteness of detail, its pic¬
turesqueness of description, and its exalted strain of piety
and religious fervour, is the Book of Job. If not the most
ancient (and by the best Biblical scholars it is considered to
have been written before the time of Moses), it is certainly
the most perfect specimen that we have of Hebrew poetry.
In it, not only do we see many questions propounded evincing
the most ardent search after physical and psychological
knowledge, but we actually find the various processes which
take place in the atmosphere mentioned—nay, we have
described with minuteness and accuracy the formation and
solution of vapour, according to the changing direction of the
wind, its change of colour, and we are told of the generation
of the snow and hail, the vivid lightning, and the rolling
thunder. No matter into what language the Book of Job has
been translated, its metaphors and expressions drawn from
the natural scenery of the East leave universally the same
deep and abiding impression. I scarcely know what chapter
in this marvellous book to select as an illustration.
The celebrated traveller whose name I have already men¬
tioned—Humboldt—says that he has always remarked in
his travels that where nature has sparingly bestowed her
gifts the senses of man are sharpened, and he marks every
change in the moving clouds of the atmosphere around him,
tracing in the solitude of the dreary desert, as on the face of
the deep and moving sea, every phenomenon through its
varied changes back to the signs by which its coming was
proclaimed. The climate of Palestine, especially in the arid
and rocky portions of the country, is peculiarly adapted to
give rise to such observations. Again, this poetry of the
Hebrews, as displayed in the various books of the Old
Testament, takes a wide range of expression and a great
variety of form. For instance, we hear, as it were, a trumpet
blast of warlike enthusiasm from the Book of Joshua to that
of Samuel; while, on the other hand, soft as the pastoral airs
played upon the shepherd’s pipe, the exquisite book of the
gleaner Ruth breathes to us a strain of music that charms
us by its beautiful but natural simplicity. Goethe, the great
* A paper read, at the last meeting of the Psychological Society.
Jan. 31, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
53
German poet, calls it the loveliest specimen of epic and
idyle poetry which we possess.
From the Hebrew tribes, the great Semitic race, let us
now turn to the poetry of the Indians, Arabians, Persians,
and Egyptians. What do we find here ? A literature de¬
veloped under the genial glow of southern climes, presenting
the most charming descriptions, not only of organic life, but
of inanimate nature.
Let us take, however, the Arabs first, and for this reason,
because their poetry is a reflection even now of that sublime
contemplative consideration of nature which was the original
characteristic of the Oriental races. The poet of the Arabs
par eminence is Asrudi, and his grand work is named after
its hero, the Autar. The English Oriental scholar, Mr.
Hamilton, who has translated this poem, remarks the
Biblical tone which pervades it throughout. It records the
journey and adventures of the hero from the time of his
leaving the desert till his arrival at Constantinople, and so
introduces a striking and picturesque contrast between Greek
culture and nomadic ruggedness. It may excite surprise to
find how small a space in the earliest Arab poems is devoted
to descriptions of the scenery and natural products of the
country; but the surprise will soon vanish when we consider
that a monotonous uniformity of grassy plains and sandy
deserts is little likely to produce a warm feeling of love for
nature,’ except under rare and peculiar conditions of mind.
Accordingly, we find that these poems are chiefly devoted to
stories of deeds of arms and the praises of hospitality and
fidelity. What descriptions of natural phenomena there are
refer chiefly to the winds, the storms, and the long-wished
for rain.
Let us now turn to the classic poetry of the Hindoos, and
avail ourselves first of the researches of the great German
philosopher Lapen. “ If we suppose,” says that writer in
his work on Indian Antiquity, u that a part of the Aryan
race emigrated to India from their native region in the
north-western portion of the continent, they would have
found themselves surrounded by a wholly unknown and
marvellously luxuriant vegetation. The mildness of the
climate, the fruitfulness of the soil, and its rich and spon¬
taneous products must have imparted a brighter colouring to
the new life opening before them. Owing to the originally
noble characteristics of the Aryan race, and the possession of
superior mental endowments, in which lay the germs of all
the nobleness and greatness to which the ancient Indians
attained, the aspect of external nature gave rise in the minds
of these nations to a deep meditation on the forces of nature,
which has proved the means of inducing that contemplative
tendency which we find so intimately interwoven in the most
ancient poetry of the Indians. The all-powerful impression
thus produced on the minds of the people is most clearly
manifested in the fundamental dogma of their belief—the
recognition of the Divine in nature. The freedom from care,
and the ease with which existence could be maintained in
such a climate, were also inducive to the same contemplative
tendency. Who could devote themselves with less hindrance
to a profound meditation of earthly life, of the condition of
man after death, and of the Divine essence, than those
anchorites whose dwellings were amid the deep forests, the
Brahmins of India, whose ancient schools constitute one of
the most remarkable phenomena of Indian life, and must
have exercised a special influence on the mental development
of the whole race ? ”
Of all the memorials of the religious aspirations and
culture of the ancient Indians, the Vedas are the oldest
and most valuable. Their grand theme is the veneration of
the supreme, eternal power that pervades the universe, and
next to this the deep-rooted love they bear to nature in all
her varied forms. Epithets and passages, as we shall see,
are to be met with that are worthy to be compared for their
poetry, sublimity, and beauty to anything to be found in
the glowing pages of Homer, Milton, or Shakespeare.
And here I cannot enter on the consideration of what
forms the remainder of my lecture without expressing my
deep indebtedness to many sources, but chiefly to the works
of Professor Max Muller, to a most able article in this
month’s (December) number of The Nineteenth Century on
“ The Religion of the Ancient Egyptians,” and to the
anonymous author of the learned and deeply-interesting
I History of Pantheism^ published by Deacon and Co. in the
| early part of the present year. What I have culled from
I these works form but a few grains from their golden granary,
! and to those who wish to enter more fully into the subject
| I commend them most warmly to their earnest perusal.
[ That most learned and philosophical writer, Professor
| Max Muller, of Oxford, truly remarks that the Vedas, by
| their language and thoughts, supply that distant back-
| ground in the history of all the religions of the Aryan race,
I which was missed indeed by every careful observer, but
! which formerly could be supplied by guess-work only. How
| the Persians came to worship Ormuzd, how the Buddhists
I came to protest against temples and sacrifices, how Zeus
j and the Olympian gods came to be what they are in the
| mind of Homer, or how such beings as Jupiter and Mars
j came to be worshipped by the Italian peasant ?—all these
! | questions can now be answered by a simple reference to the
| | hymns of the Vedas. . . . We can watch in the Vedas
| | ideas and their names growing, which in Persia, Greece, and
I | Rome we meet with only as full-grown or fast decaying.
|V We get one step nearer to that distant source of religious
| | thought and language which has fed the different national
I | streams of Persia, Greece, Rome, and Germany; and we
I | begin to see clearly, what never ought to have been doubted,
||! that there is no religion without God, or, as St. Augustine
| | expressed it, “ that there is no false religion which does not
| contain some elements of truth.”
To appreciate these Vedas justly we must try to divest our-
| selves of the common notions of Polytheism, so repugnant
| not only to our feelings but to our intelligence. No doubt, if
! we must employ technical terms, the religion of the Vedas
is Polytheism, not Monotheism. Deities are invoked by
different names, some clear and intelligible, such as Agui,
I fire ; Surya, the sun ; Ushas, the dawn ; Maruts, the storms ;
’[ Prithivi, the earth; Ap, the waters ; Nadi, the rivers:
j others, such as Varuna, Mitra, ■ Indra, which have become
! proper names, disclose but dimly their original application
j :j to the great aspects of nature—the sky, the sun, the day;
j and yet, strange to say, whenever one of these individual
| | gods is invoked, he is never conceived as limited in his
| | power by others, as superior or inferior in rank. Each god
] | is, to the mind of the suppliant, as great and good as all
| j the other gods. He is felt at the time as a real Divinity,
||| as supreme and absolute, without a suspicion of those limita-
| | tions which, to our minds, a plurality of gods must entail
! j on every single god. All the rest disappear for the time
| | from the vision of the poet, and the god alone who is to
I | fulfil their desires stands in full light before the eyes of the
[ | worshippers. Thus, it may be said, there are many persons,
| | or many names, but one God; and in the Rig Veda occurs
| | this passage: “ They call this god Indra, Mitra, Varuna,
| | Aguithew. He is the beautiful winged Garutmat. That
I j which is One, the wise call by divers names, as Agui, Zama,
| | Matarisvan; though he is One, wise poets make him mani*
| | fold by words.”*
j | Now let me give you some of the sacred poetry of the
I | Vedas, in which I think you will admit there is not only the
I | true spirit of poetry, but a deep, sincere, and touching
l l yearning after Divine truth.
1. Who is the God to whom we shall offer our sacrifice ?
||| 2. He who gives life, He who gives strength, whose
| I command all revere, whose shadow is immortality, whose
II shadow is death. Who is the God to whom we shall offer
| our sacrifice ?
j 3. He who through His power is the one King of the
j the breathing and awakening world. He who governs man
| and all created things. Who is the God to whom we shall
| I offer our sacrifice ?
| I 4. He whose greatness the snowy mountains, the sea, and
j j the distant rivers proclaim ; He whose these regions are, as
j j it were, His arms. Who is the God to whom we shall offer
j | sacrifice ?
u 5. He through whom the sky is bright and the earth firm.
||| He through whom the heavens were established. He who
!*“ Veda" signifies “ Wisdom" There are four collections of hymns known by the name
; of Vedas: the Eig Veda, Zagur Veda, Sama Veda, and Athawva Veda. But the only im-
i portant, the real Veda, is the Eig Veda. The other so-called Vedas, which deserve no more
I to be called Vedas than the Jewish Talmud deserves the name of Bible, contain chiefly
| extracts from the Eig Veda, together with a mass of sacrificial forms, charms, and ineanta*
tions. The Zagur Veda and Sama Veda may be termed the sacrificial prayer books for the
' priests.
54
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 31, 1879.
measures out the light in the air. Who is the God to whom
we shall offer our sacrifice ?
6. He to whom heaven and earth, standing firm by His
will, look up trembling inwardly. He over whom the rising
sun shines forth. Who is the God to whom we shall offer
our sacrifice ?
7. He who by His might looked even over the water
clouds, the clouds which give strength and light the
sacrifice. He who alone is God above all gods !
( To be continued?)
A PEIYATE SEANCE.
On Wednesday last week, at a private seance, held at the |
house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, j
Grosvenor-square, London, Mr. Rita was the medium. The |
guests were seated round the table in the following order :— |
Mr. Rita, Mr. Annesley Mayne, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, j
Miss Mattie Houghton, the Yen. Archdeacon Dunbar, Mr. I
W. H. Harrison, Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mrs. Ramsay. |
Thus Mr. Rita was held on the one side by Mr. Annesley j
Mayne, of the Junior Carlton Club, and on the other by Mrs.
Ramsay, of 36, Bryanstone-square, London.
Some of the usual manifestations took place, such as are !
necessary for the convincing of new inquirers, and for readers j
among the outside public who are strange to the subject, but j
which are familiar in the extreme to experienced Spiritualists.
That is to say, chairs were piled one over the other on the j
table, and the arms of one or two hooked over the heads of
the sitters while the medium’s hands were held. A spirit
face, dimly illuminated, was seen once or twice.
A voice, which claimed to belong to the spirit who pro¬
duced the test physical manifestations, held a conversation
with Archdeacon Dunbar, saying that there was no truth in
the doctrine of eternal punishment, and that Cain was not so
black as he had been painted, because, as he had never seen
death, he did not know that any action of his would kill his
brother Abel.
Not a few Spiritualists who hold seances for the benefit of
their unconverted friends would be glad of more advanced
manifestations, but find that for beginners a few elementary
test phenomena are most convincing and useful.
TO ANOTHER THE GIFT OF HEALING.
BY J. A. CAMPBELL.
This remarkable case of spirit mesmerism will, I think,
interest the readers of your paper. I translate it from the j
Life oj St. Elizabeth of Hungary, by M. de Montalembert,
one of the loveliest books ever written, and one which I |
commend to all simple people. To myself St. Elizabeth is a |
very real and ever present friend, and it is from her that I j
have learnt a great deal of what I am most thankful to know, j
Last summer I spent under the shadow of her castle of the j
Wartburg, whence I visited her shrine and cathedral church j
at Marbourg, the stateliest and most beautiful specimen j
of early pure German Gothic left to us, built, tradition j
says, from money found daily in the ground—for every |
labourer his hire. Modern Roman Catholicism having |
changed its views upon the usury and labour questions, has j
built its far more elaborate cathedral of Cologne chiefly from
the proceeds of a lottery, and the canonisation of its latter- I
day saints has usually been the apotheosis of brain sickness !
rather than of good works.
A poor mother, whose child had been for five years
grievously ill—among other sufferings had immense tumours \
on the back and on the chest—had her carried to the tomb of j
Elizabeth, and watched beside her for two days in prayer, i
At the end of that time, seeing that her prayers were not j
listened to, she murmured loudly against the saint, saying, j
k • Since you have not chosen to hear me, I shall prevent all i
others from coming to your shrine.” She then left Marbourg !
greatly irritated; but after having walked a mile and a half, j
the cries and sufferings of her child obliged her to rest near i
a fountain in the village of Rosdorf. The baby fell asleep for j
i| a moment, and when she awoke said that she had seen a
! beautiful lady whose face was shining, and whose hands were
I white and fine, and that she had gently passed her hands
j over her back and breast, and said, “ Arise and walk.” And
I “ Oh, mother, now I feel myself healed through my whole
j body.” It is pleasant to hear “ that they returned together
i to the shrine to render thanks to the saint, and left there the
| basket in which the sick one had been carried.”
Quamdam dominant ad se venientem vidisse, cujus facies
| splendida, manus graciles et candidce, quce manibus suis
| lenivit corpus ejus in dor so et pectore, et dixit: surge et
I ambula.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
BY W. H. HARRISON.
A few days ago Dr. Mack called upon me, saying that he
| had cured a case of blindness of eighteen years standing,
| and that he wished me to see the patient. I went with him
! to Mr. Manns, 270, Goswell-road, London, and saw the
servant, Emily Clarke, who had been cured, also Mrs.
| Manns. The latter said that her servant had been nearly
i blind for the year she had been with her, and had been
| growing worse. Dr. Mack merely let a little mes-
j merised water drop into her eyes, and nearly cured
| her in a few minutes. Before that she could never see
] the time by the clock across the kitchen, but ever since she
! has been able to do so easily, and to read small print. One
eye was always worse than the other; it is not strong now, but
| she can read with it. There is now considerable difference in the
! focal distance of the lenses of the two eyes; in other words,
j one eye is longer-sighted than the other. I asked Dr.
1 Mack what induced him to perform the apparently empirical
| act of dropping mesmerised water into the eye; he replied
j that, as usual with him, he did it involuntarily, under spirit
I control; all his cures, he said, are effected in like manner.
The following certificate was then given me for publica-
| tion:—
lt At about the age of two years I had what most children
| have in early life, the common illness called measles, which
| left a condition in the eyes, resulting eventually in the
blindness of one and a dimness of the other. Various
j remedies and institutions were resorted to for the recovery
| of my sight. I was an outdoor patient of Little Moorfields
Hospital, London; also the Maidstone and Chatham Hos-
| pitals. In the two former I was an outdoor patient about
j five years without receiving any benefit; and in the latter
about six months, when the dimness of my left eye was
| partially removed. Lastly, in the summer of 1876, then
j living at the house of Mr. Arnold, 5, Grosvenor-street,
Grosvenor-park, Camberwell, the sight of my eye became
| so much clouded that it was with difficulty that I could do
! my work. Mr. and Mrs. Arnold prevailed upon me to visit
I the Royal South London Ophthalmic Hospital, where I was
| admitted by Mr. Carter, the physician in attendance. He
| examined my eyes, and recommended an operation, which I
i declined, and was discharged as incurable.
“ In 1878 I entered the service of Mr. Matthew Manns,
II wholesale and retail grocer, 215, Goswell-road, E.C. My
| work here was very imperfectly done, at times requiring
!! great forbearance on the part of Mrs. Manns, which made
; | me very despondent and fearful that I should be left de-
11 pendent upon the charity of the world. Mrs. Manns, being
[ 1 herself an invalid suffering from an almost incurable disease,
11 having heard of Dr. Mack’s success in similar cases,
i! she was induced to try his skill, although no one in
[ j the house seemed to know of him or his peculiar method
[ | of practice. Mrs. Manns, however, found so much benefit
i j from his treatment that I felt encouraged to submit my case to
! | him, but with the least possible hope of success. Yielding to
[ | the desire of Mr. Manns I went upstairs where Dr. Mack was
' I treating Mrs. Manns, her daughter being also present. After
! j a little delay the doctor looked into my eyes and stated that
| he might be able to benefit one eye, perhaps both, and that
1 he would try and see what could be done in a few minutes.
| I must confess that I felt very nervous, because I did not
| know but what bad might be made worse. He evidently
! knew my feelings, and assured me if he did me no good he
Jan. 31, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
55
would do no harm. Having asked for a glass of water,
which I furnished, he took it in one hand while the fingers
of the other were directed downwards, being held imme¬
diately over the water for one minute. He then placed
the tumbler upon the table, and bending my head back-
waTds, he dipped his fingers into the water, and allowed a
few drops to fall into my eyes. Standing behind me, he
placed his hands on the sides of my head with his fingers
extended over my eyes, and suddenly I felt a burning or
scalding sensation behind and around my eyes, and then a
fluid ran from them down my face. The time occupied in
this treatment was about ten minutes. He then asked me
to try and see what improvement was made, and I told him
I could see quite well. After placing his fingers over my
right eye, which was formerly blind, I found I could see
with that also every object in the room, even to the colour
of the dresses worn by the ladies, a feat impossible before
Dr. Mack’s treatment; but still there was a haziness about
my eyes. He then repeated the operation twice, the whole
treatment not occupying more than half an hour, at the con¬
clusion of which Dr. Mack requested me to keep my eyes as
quiet as possible for a few days, thus allowing them to get
strong and accustomed to the light. On the next day, how¬
ever, he treated them again, and I could see as well as
anyone could wish, the haziness being entirely removed.
The first treatment was on November 27th, 1878 ; and my
sight is now perfectly restored, my eyes are strong, and I
can read the smallest print with ease. To me the powers of
Dr. Mack have proved a blessing, the fear of being burden¬
some to myself and others through my previously helpless
condition has been removed, my heart has been relieved
from a dread, and my soul thanks God for endowing Dr.
Mack with such marvellous powers. I am willing to answer
any questions, or to prove in any possible way the facts here
recorded, for the benefit of those who may suffer from the
same distressing malady. (Signed) Emily Clarke.”
“We, the undersigned, know the above statements to be sub¬
stantially correct. “ Matthew Manns.
“ V. Manns.
“ E. C. Manns.”
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
POSSESSED.
At the last meeting of the Psychological Society, before the delivery
of an address by Professor Plumptre, Mr. F. K. Munton, the honorary
secretary, read the following narrative from the Pall Mall Gazette about
psychological phenomena in Italy :—
la a little village away up in the province of Udine, on the borders of
Italia Irredenta, there is great alarm and commotion; for the young
girls of the place, one after another, are showing outward and visible
signs of being possessed by a devil. According to all accounts there are
now about thirty young women in this unhappy condition. Why the
Evil One should have selected so obscure a village for his operations
does not seem quite clear. Indeed, the blame is laid not on him, but on
the priests. Inquiries made by the authorities have elicited the fact
that in Lent last year a series of discourses were delivered by a priest,
in which he described at great length and with much detail the pains of
hell; thereby terrifying weak young women that they were already lost,
and that the devil had entered into them. The priests, who at first
were rather pleased with the impression their brother made, have
since found that though they had raised the spirit they had no power
to lay it again. Holy water produces no effect, the most searching
exorcisms fail, and even such practical measures as beating the
person affected have been found useless. While the fit of madness
is on the “possessed” crow like cocks, or mew like cats, or
bark and howl like dogs and wolves. What is worse, they shock
their neighbours by blasphemous and obscene language ; being especi¬
ally violent against the priests, cursing them for their inability to
relieve their suffering by casting out the devil. The prefect of the
province has sent a commission to Yerzegnis, the name of the village,
to see what can be done to stop the progress of this madness; for,
by force of example and terror, it threatens to spread. The people of the
district are ignorant and uneducated, and cannot be persuaded but that
the devil is really at large amongst them. It must be remembered
that the rural population in many parts of Italy is no further
advanced in civilisation than England was two or three hundred
years ago.
A curious incident of the same kind was related to me a few months
ago by a friend who had heard it from the lips of one of the doctors at
the lunatic asylum at Siena. At Siena there is a very large asylum in
proportion to the number of inhabitants, but it is nearly always full.
Among the patients is a man who was formerly servant to a priest in
the town, and had been remarkable for his piety and devotion. A year
or two ago he began to show signs of religious mania, and his master, in
hope of curing him, sent him to a country house for change of air and
scene. The man appeared to get better, and after some months returned
to the town, but the mania soon began to show itself again. He had
I ( an idea that he was a bishop, and used to preach in the streets; so* it
| | was resolved to place him in the asylum. Two attendants were sent
i i with a carriage to remove him ; and, to get him away quietly, he was
I I told that he was to officiate at a religious function. As he was driving
(, through the streets he blessed the people; and on nearing the asylum
ill he expressed a wish to go in and bless “ the poor mad people,” and so
i | | was taken in. It was easy to persuade him that the patients were his
j | i flock, and he used to preach to them, and to assist the keepers in many
| j | little ways; and so, being gentle and harmless, he became a great
| \ I favourite. Among his flock was a very violent lunatic, who constantly
I ( i used language so blasphemous and disgusting that it shocked the
| ] keepers, and even the other patients; and to this man he specially
| j | devoted his attention, trying to reason with him and bring him to a
i ( J calmer state, but always in vain. One day, without any warning, he
| [ i fell on the blasphemer and strangled him, telling the keepers that the
i j | man was possessed with a devil, that he had long tried to cast him out
I ( ! but in vain, and so, as the possessed creature was too wicked to live,
|| he had killed him. But now it seemed as if the spirit of the dead man
had entered into his murderer. Religion was forgotten, and its place
was taken by all the vicious passions of his victim. The most
blasphemous language continually issued from lips that hitherto had
been pure of evil speaking; his gentle nature gave place to the violence
| which had characterised the man he had killed; and from being the
most tractable of patients he has now become one of the most dangerous
and the one of whom the keepers are most in fear. They all firmly
believe that the evil spirit cast out of the murdered man actually did
| enter into the body of the murderer.
PRIVATE THEATRICALS.
! Last Tuesday night one of the best entertainments which has been
given in connection with Spiritualism for a long time came off in the
i rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists at Great Russell-
! street, London. It consisted of a concert and private theatrical enter-
| j tainment, in aid of the funds of the Association, and the rooms were
(I well filled by members and their friends.
| j The concert commenced with Nicolai’s overture, “ The Merry Wives
) I of Windsor,” spiritedly rendered by the Misses Withall. This was
(| followed by a vocal duet, “ Una Sera d’Amore,’’ by the Misses Beau-
j j mont, which was much applauded. A slight change was made in the
) I programme by the introduction of Gounod’s song “ Oh that we two were
(| Maying,” a Composition in Gounod’s own peculiar vein; although it is
| i not in all parts fully adapted to Kingsley’s beautiful words, Miss Beau-
) | mont yet succeeded well in blending, as much as might be, the power of
(| the music with the pathos of the poetry. Miss Lucie Cobbe, of the
11 Royal Academy of Music, gave a pianoforte recital of Schubert’s
/1 “ Minuet and Trio in B Minor,” and Mendelssohn’s “ Bees’ Wedding,”
j | with taste and skill, the latter piece being most noticeable for grace and
11 delicacy of interpretation. This was followed by a song from Miss
| s Blanche Beaumont, “ The Little Mountain Lad,” a pretty piece, admir-
(| ably suited to the singer’s rich contralto voice. Miss Leslie Younge
! sang two songs with her accustomed power and grace; the second of them,
i | “ Darby and Joan,” was sung with sweetness and pathos, as it should be.
Later in the evening Mrs. Edwin Ellis, who had taken the lead in
| j getting up the whole entertainment, joined Mr. Louis Weighton in the
j | dramatic performance of The Happy Pair. In this piece the husband,
i whose part was ably acted, quarrelled with his wife, like the brutes
(| which men always are; but when the wife, in the most natural manner
(i possible, turned upon him, rendering evil for evil, the groans and sighs
i of the astonished and repentant husband would have melted the heart
} | of a stone. The piece came to a close, after he had been so well subdued,
| that the example set by the accomplished heroine could not have been
|; thrown away on any lady present.
) | Altogether, the entertainment was better than the average of amateur
(: performances, and a second one of the kind would probably draw a
| i good audience upon its own merits, apart from supporting any particular
(| object. 
I IMITATIONS OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA BY JUGGLERY,
The blue leaflets which we have had printed for circula-
ii tion contain the following passages about those jugglers
j i and men of science who deceive the public by telling them
| that spiritual phenomena are not real:—
“ Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should
) | begin by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spirit-
11 ualist or stranger to the family present.
“ The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
11 of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery, are
II proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
i readily obtainable by private families, with no stranger
| present, and without deception by any member of the
| family. At the present time there are only about half-a-
! d dozen professional mediums for the physical phenomena in
i j all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters
j j (which they are not), they are so few in number as to be
I! unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
I the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers
| should protect themselves against any impostors who,
I knowing to the contrary, may hereafter tell them that the
j phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
j which cost nothing, thus learning how egregiously those are
I duped who trust in worthless authorities.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 31, 1879.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS INSIDE A SEALED BOX.
The following letter, by Mr. Robert Cooper, late of Eastbourne, is
published in Mind and Matter, a new weekly Spiritualistic journal
just started in Philadelphia :—
At the commencement of autumn of the present year some remarkable
experiments were made through the mediumship of Mrs. Thayer, the cele¬
brated flower medium of Boston, a full account of which has not yet been
published. I now propose to give a detailed account of the experiments
referred to, for I consider that such well-authenticated and conclusive
phenomena should not be allowed to escape the notice of the public, but
should be added to the facts, multitudinous and varied in their character,
that are daily occurring, and on which the superstructure of the glorious
spiritual philosophy is based.
The phenomena peculiar to Mrs. Thayer’s mediumship consist prin¬
cipally of the production of flowers in a closed room. Of the reality of
this fact hundreds of intelligent persons have become satisfied. The
idea occurred to me that it might be possible for the power that brought
the flowers into a closed room to go a step further, and introduce them
into a closed box. The importance of this is obvious, inasmuch as the
suspicion of confederacy on the part of others, and of secreting the
flowers by the medium, would be entirely done away with. With this
idea in my mind I proposed to Mrs. Thayer to make the trial, and with
her usual willingness to oblige, she readily consented, at the same time
remarking that she was not at all sure it could be done.
Accordingly, I bought a box at a store—an ordinary square packing
case. It was made of three-quarter inch pine board, being nailed together
with strong nails. Its dimensions were a little over a foot on all sides.
I had the lid hung with hinges, and had a piece of glass securely fixed
in it, so that the inside of the box could be seen without opening it.
Thus prepared, I invited several intelligent and reliable persons to be
present, in order to witness the trial. Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, the well-
known mediums, being in Boston, kindly offered the use of their rooms,
and it was there the company met—fourteen in number.
After an examination of the box, and everybody being satisfied there
was nothing in it, it was closed. I then took from my pocket a pad¬
lock, which I had bought for the purpose, and which had never been out
of my possession, and secured the lid. As an additional security, a
strip of gummed paper was stuck on the top and thence to the side, a
seal being attached to either end of it. A gentleman also stuck a strip
of court plaster in a similar position on another part of the box. Every¬
thing being ready, the light was about to be turned out, when Mrs.
Thayer said she had forgotten to bring her handkerchief that she
usually places on the top of her head during the manifestations. This
she uses to protect her head from the electrical influences that prevail,
and which are apt to produce subsequent pain. Thereupon, a gentle¬
man took from his wallet a packet of Japanese paper handkerchiefs, and
offered one to Mrs. Thayer, who remarked that as it was not silk it was
of no use, and it was placed on the table and the light turned out. The
company, thus seated around the box in darkness, commenced singing,
which was continued with intervals of cessation for about half an hour,
and nothing having apparently occurred, except occasional raps on the
box and on the table, it was resolved to strike a light and see if any¬
thing had taken place. On looking into the box, something was dis¬
covered, which, in the dim light, was supposed to be flowers, but which,
on the box being opened, proved to be the paper handkerchief which
had been left lying on the table, the red pattern of which had been
mistaken for flowers. It will be noticed, in this case, that the handker¬
chief was not taken from the owner’s pocket until the box had been
“ fixed,” and was seen inside before it was opened. The box was then
removed, and the light again extinguished, when, in a very short time,
a large branch of a fir tree, several lilies, and other flowers were found
on the table. They were all apparently freshly gathered and were
covered with cold dew, though the room was uncomfortably hot and the
medium had not been out of it for at least an hour and a half. At the
conclusion of the seance the following certificate was unhesitatingly
signed by those present, none of whom appeared to entertain the slightest
doubt but that they had witnessed a most conclusive instance of the
passage of one material substance through another : “ This is to certify
that we, the undersigned, were present at a seance at No. 8, Davis-
street, on the evening of August 24th, 1878, when the phenomenon of
matter passing through matter was conclusively demonstrated in the
presence of Mrs. Thayer, the flower medium, by a paper handkerchief
being passed into a sealed and locked box.—Robert Cooper, Charles
Houghton, J. L. Newman, D. D. Densmore, John Wetherbee, Edna R.
Houghton, J. Nelson Holmes, Jennie W. Holmes, F. E. Crane, L. H.
Ross, Mrs. Augustus Wilson, Mrs. A. B. Lawrence, Mrs. A. C.
Sylands, J. Martin.”
It was claimed by the spirits that operate through the Holmeses that
it was by their agency the handkerchief had been introduced into the
box. Be this as it may, there is no doubt of the fact that the pheno¬
menon occurred. An excellent account of the seance was published in
the London Medium and Daybreak, by Mr. John Wetherbee.
Well satisfied with our success, although the full object in view had
not been attained, it was determined to make another trial. After the
lapse, therefore, of a week or so, a few persons were invited to be present
at Mrs. Thayer’s residence in Washington-street, the time chosen being
three o’clock in the afternoon. The box having been duly inspected and
sealed as before, and the light extinguished, we had not long to wait for
results, for in the midst of the singing in which we were engaged, a loud
noise was heard, suggesting the idea that the box was broken to pieces;
but on a light being procured it was found to be perfectly intact and the
seals unbroken, and through the glass could be discerned several objects,
the principal of which were flowers. It was thought advisable not to
open the box, but to submit it for inspection as it was; and for this
purpose it was taken to the Banner of Light store, where it remained on
view for two or three days, and where at length it was opened in the
presence of several persons, who examined the box thoroughly and were
all assured that it was no trick-box, but, as has before been stated, an
ordinary packing box, of the simplest character. The contents are
given in the following certificate, which was signed by all who witnessed
the seance: —
“ At a seance held at 833, Washington-street, Boston, September 3rd,
1878, Mrs. Thayer medium, the undersigned, who were present, hereby
certify that a copy of the Banner of Light and the Voice of Angels, a
photograph, several tiger lilies, a piece of fern, roses, &c., were found
introduced into a locked and sealed box, besides several flowers on the
table.—Robert Cooper, Laura Kendrick, Jonathan M. Roberts, J. N.
Holmes, Jennie W. Holmes, G-. A. Bacon, Mrs. Anna L. Reilly, Richard
Hart fof London), Mrs. I. Floyd.”
The flowers on the table referred to came after the box manifestation.
They were principally red roses, and the largest of them was found on
the head of the medium. None of the objects, with the exception of the
photograph, were, so far as is known, on the premises at the time ; the
photograph had been placed in a trunk in an adjoining room.
A few weeks after the above occurrences Col. H. S. Olcott, president
of the Theosophical Society of New York, happened to be in Boston,
and it was thought desirable that he should witness a box stance.
Accordingly a few friends of Mr. Charles Houghton, at whose residence
Col. Olcott was staying, were invited by that gentleman to his residence
in Jamaica Plain to meet Mrs. Thayer. The seance was unsuccessful,
for just as the manifestations were commencing the arrival of fresh
guests disturbed the proceedings, and the seance was not continued. The
following night, however, Mrs. Thayer held her regular public circle,
and after most of the visitors had departed it was resolved to make a
trial with the box, in order that Col. Olcott, who was present, might
witness it. The box at this time had been further secured by having a
strip of gummed paper, with a seal at each end, placed on every angle,
and Col. Olcott impressed his signet ring on the seals that secured the
lid. Results had not long to be waited for, for in a short time the box
was found nearly half full of beautiful flowers and a large piece of
trailing plant, all fresh and perfect, as if that moment gathered where
they grew.
Such is a plain statement of the facts of these remarkable seances.
They involve not only the transporting of objects from one place to
another, but the still more inexplicable fact of one material substance
passing through another. The passage of matter through matter is of
frequent occurrence at spiritual seances, and very few Spiritualists
doubt the fact of it occurring ; but I am not aware that such an unique
and striking example of it has ever occurred as I now describe, and I
have therefore deemed it advisable to place these seances on record in a
somewhat detailed form. The witnesses to the facts are persons of more
than average intelligence, and their probity unimpeachable, and not one
of them, I believe, has seen occasion to alter the opinion formed at the
time of the stances; indeed, it is rare for facts, of the character in
question, to be so well attested and the verdict pronounced on them so
unanimous and unequivocal. Robert Cooper.
Boston, U.S., Dec. 29th, 1878.
©orresponuence.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']  
CAPTAIN BURTON’S “ IF8.”
Sir,—Captain Burton’s series of little “ ifs ” are summed up by and
contained within those two larger ifs of the Hebrew prophet quoted in
my last letter—“If the Lord be God, worship Him; and if Baal be
God, worship himbut until the greater ifs are understood, and the
commands following them are obeyed, there is small hope of solid good
resulting from his suggestions. Substituting for “ the Lord” the words
Moral Law, and for “Baal,” Political Economy, and using neuter
instead of masculine pronouns, the sentence becomes, I trust, acceptable
to the less “ superstitious ” among us.
To make my meaning perfectly plain, I take the words of the greatest
intuitional philosopher who ever lived for my definition of the principles
of moral law, and for my definition of the principles of political
economy I take the words of the President of the Glasgow Social
Science Congress, spoken in 1874; placing them in opposition:—
“ Ye are all brethren; ye are all one.” “ Thou shalt love thy
neighbour as thyself.” “ Give to him that asketh thee, and of him that
would borrow of thee turn thou not away.”
To the same effect I might quote Buddha, or Plato, Cicero, Jerome,
and Carlyle; but what saith utilitarianism ?—
“ Man has been defined to be an animal that exchanges. It will he
seen, however, that he not only exchanges; but, from the fact of his
belonging in part to the order carnivora, that he also inherits to a con¬
siderable degree the desire to possess without exchanging; or, in other
words, by fraud and violence, when such can be used for his own
advantage, without danger to himself. ... In order, therefore, to pre¬
vent or put a stop to a practice which each would object to in his own
case, and which, besides, would put a stop to production altogether,
both reason and a sense of justice would suggest the act of exchange as
the only proper mode of obtaining things from one another.”
I ask those who are really desirous that the world be made more
divine to examine, in the light of the old-world teaching, Captain Bur¬
ton’s “ ifs.” To examine anything in the Egyptian darkness of modern
political economy would require the carnivorous clairvoyance of that
nation’s cat-headed god of vengeance, who, by-the-by, is strangely
related to Baal. This, I trust, they do not possess; and having so
examined, they will, I think, find that every suggestion that makes for
bitterness is utterly useless until men first acknowledge the unchange¬
able character of moral as well as physical law. You cannot teach
Jan. 31, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
57
mechanics without making plain the law of gravitation underlying all.
You cannot teach acts of honesty without making plain to heart and
head of the learner the laws of love and duty that underlie all such acts.
Prophecy, or no prophecy, a nation that accepts the double-damned
maxims of human brutality and human selfishness as her mother-law is
already a nonentity; when the sulphurous fire within her shall reach
even her external body, and the smoke of her destruction ascend, is but
a question of time. No Matter Who.
MADAME BLAVATSKY.
Sir,—^Although I am not so bold or so unpolite as to meddle spon¬
taneously with that very delicate subject, a lady’s age, yet, when it is
thrust before me, I am in the habit of accepting it or not according to
circumstances. So I must say I was considerably surprised to find in
The Spiritualist of January 24th that Madame Blavatsky is, by her
own showing, now eighty-two years of age, because I had inferred, from
a letter by that lady, that it was so very different.
It had been alleged by an interviewer of Madame Blavatsky, in the
Revue Spirite of June, 1878, that Madame “ had passed nearly thirty
years in India.” To this Madame Blavatsky, in a letter contained in
the Revue Spirite of September, replied:—“ Speaking of age, although
the journals have given me respectively, and at different epochs, the
age of 25, 60, 86, 92, and 103 years, I feel myself obliged to assure your
readers that I have not ‘ passed more than thirty years in India.’ It
is exactly my age—c'est justement mon age—although very respectable
such as it is—it is in violent opposition to this chronology of fantasy.”
I had been led, from this, to suppose that Madame Blavatsky was thirty
years of age. Madame Blavatsky has begun a series of letters in the
Revue on the doctrines of the Theosophists, and in her letter of this
month says, “ If our doctrines interest the readers, in our next number
we will try to be more explicit.” Scrutator.
Sir,—There are one or two particulars in Dr. Wyld’s otherwise
excellent description of Madame Blavatsky in this week’s Spiritualist
on which I should like to remark. In doing so, it is true, I have some
apprehension of opening upon you the floodgates of theological con¬
troversy, although my object being only to guard against the old and
perpetually recurring fallacy of confounding real and verbal differences,
it ought not to have that result. In charging Madame Blavatsky with
persisting in confusing “the essence with the external garment of
Christianity,” it would be interesting to know what and how much Dr.
Wyld himself regards as the essence, and how much as the garment.
Without assuming any other knowledge of his beliefs, I should certainly
infer, from what he tells us of Madame Blavatsky’s agreement with him,
that were all the Churches of Christendom reunited, with an inquisition
that should take the tenets common to all of them as the standard of
orthodoxy, Dr. Wyld would with difficulty escape its fangs. What is
that esoteric Christianity which is one and the same with esoteric
Brahmanism and Buddhism ? If there is nothing essential to Chris¬
tianity which distinguishes it from the essence of other religions, by
what right does it assume a distinctive appellation in virtue of this
common truth ? If these are his views, is it not obvious that it is Dr. Wyld
who is using the word in a non-natural sense in defending Christianity, and
not Madame Blavatsky in assailing it ? If Dr. Wyld used the name
“ Christianity ” to denote beliefs which any “ heathen ” may hold, canhe
complain of others for refusing to follow him in this misleading nomencla¬
ture ? What, in the opinion of any real Christian, would be his Christianity
who should reject the identity—in a sense in which no other man can
ever be identical—of the historical (or, as some of us may think, un-
historical) person Jesus Christ with the supreme principle of tho
universe which we name God ? Who should deny that that person is
our Redeemer, in the sense in which no other man can ever be so termed ?
I will not speak of such doctrines as the vicarious sacrifice and atone¬
ment, against which even intelligent clergymen are revolting, but which
are still either expressly enunciated, or apparently implied in most of
the Christian creeds; still less of that other grotesquely shocking
superstition, which yet few Christian ministers have the courage
expressly to disclaim, that belief in these things is necessary to salva¬
tion. I speak only of the Jesus of the Gospel narratives as supplying,
and exclusively supplying, in His attributes, and being the fundamental
belief of Christians; and it is not the Gnostic Logos that will save Dr.
Wyld from the dilemma in which he is placed. For my own part, in
repudiating the term Christianity as descriptive of the profound truths
of which I have but as yet a faint apergu, I hold myself consistently at
liberty to follow the track of those truths in the sublime, but for me,
alas ! too obscure writings of such great spiritual seers and thinkers as
Bebmen and St. Martin, for instance. So far as I have been able to
penetrate into their essential teachings, it seems to me that they would
be quite unimpaired by the admission that the supposed Christ of
history is a myth. Yet in these writings, if anywhere among pro¬
fessedly Christian authors, is to be found that esoteric Christianity
which is merely the ever-springing revelation of eternal truth to the
prepared spirit. It argues nothing for Dr. Wyld that these men also
called themselves Christians. The question is whether under the name
of Christ they were speaking of a historical personage or of a regenera¬
tive principle. Surely the latter; and it and they might as appro¬
priately, or rather with as little propriety, have been called by any other
name.
What, I would ask Dr. Wyld, are “ the doctrines and works of all
Christian teachers ” for which Madame Blavatsky displays “ an un¬
reasoning and intolerant hatred? ” Are they doctrines and works which
he accepts as expositions of his own Christianity? If not, is it not
evident that he is taking a name to which he has no right ? Is not a
name, as a medium of mutual understanding by those who use it, the
property of those who use it in a common sense, and not of those who
use it in a peculiar sense P
Dr. Wyld’s account of our friend is generally so appreciative and just,
that I cannot but regret that in this and in one other respect he should
seem to go rather out of his way to censure. It is true that her task in
life being combative, she has the combative characteristics which can
only be replaced by contemplative calm when the work of life is over.
We attain to “the wisdom of the soul” by different roads. Once
attained, it is perhaps not less perfect and sublime when it is the hero’s
repose from the battles he has fought, and his recovery from the
wounds he has received, for truth’s sake.
Dr. Wyld referred to another matter which it might be desirable to
explain, if that were possible or allowable. I mean the age of our
friend. Dr. Wyld would, I know, be the last person willingly to expos#
any statement of Madame Blavatsky to misconstruction. But he may
unintentionally have done so with those who know, or who may ascer¬
tain, her life history only so far as any one can know it but herself. To
Dr. Wyld, I believe, the statement was not incredible or inexplicable
even in its apparent sense. But to other friends of Madame Blavatsky
it was; and I can only say that they believe themselves to be in
possession of an explanation which is at once profoundly interesting
and, to them, entirely credible. C. C. Massey.
( | testing physical mediums.
/ i Sir,—I do not know that the following mode of test has ever been
j j adopted, and, in the hope that it may prove as effectual as it would be
11 easy to adopt, I beg to propose it.
) j Let a large net of silk or fine twine be made in the shape of a bag,
(j say eight feet long by five feet wide, with only one opening at the end
) I large enough for the medium to enter by.
) j The end should be capable of being drawn close together by a strong
(I cord or fine wire.
I i The ends of the cord might be prepared so as to facilitate their being
{) I sealed together.
j J | The medium having passed into this, and the net drawn overhead
j i by the cord and sealed, might assume any position most convenient to
I)! him or her.
I (i The enclosing net would afford an effectual bar to any successful
i 11 attempt at personation, or any of the other kinds of deception which
j) 1 many allege, and not a few believe, mediums have been guilty of.
I (| The room might be darkened, or the medium enclosed in a cabinet
in or room adjoining, or remain behind a curtain; but so long as the seal
I) j proved unbroken, it would be clearly a physical impossibility within
I (j any known law that the medium could be guilty of deception,
j In this case, too, in order to save unnecessary waste of spiritual
|) | power, drapery might be provided, and whether placed on the person
H| of the medium within the net, or outside of it, would be obviously
j) i immaterial.
i) | The National Association would, I have no doubt, supply such nets
Ij! if, after trying one, it was found to answer.
j j j It is difficult to see why such a test should not prove an effectual,
j and very handy one too, particularly in the case of honest inquirers
| who desired to experiment for the first time,
j | E. T. Wakefield.
|) | Hanover Lodge, Harrow-on-the-Hill.
j < | spirit identity.
Sir,—The identity of those spirits who have been prematurely
| i removed from this earth is probably made out by the aid of their
I j I guardians, or by the friendly intervention of some other spirits. I have
I) j never believed that messages are given, as a rule, by the unaided power
j of the spirit principally concerned. Most spirits, I believe, are unable
| j | to communicate independently, and avail themselves of the mediatorial
| | j aid of those who can; just as we, on our side, find a medium to place
|)i us in communication with spirit. I have been repeatedly told that
j j | messages given either through automatic writing or by .raps proceed
11! from a number of spirits acting in concert. And I find, as a rule, that
| 11 messages are written by one who is more facile with the pen than those
! |! who use him as amanuensis.
j 11 The remembrance of earth-life is another matter. I believe that the
!) i spirit, as soon as it attains full consciousness on being freed from the
| j | body, sees and knows the events of its previous existence. And this it
! | j would do even though one’s stage of that existence were a very short
i j i one. This is an invariable law in spirit life. That many seem to
II i forget, or not to be able to tell accurately the events of their bodily life,
| | may be owing to one or more of many causes. Either they have not
! (| mastered the difficulties of communication, or they have lost sight of
! i I the past in the absorbing interests of a wider sphere of life, or they
1) | have no strong rapport with earth; or, as in some cases known to me,
i i the interval of semi-consciousness on their entry to the world of spirit
! j has been so prolonged as to efface remembrance, or at any rate to blur
j 11 the record of memory.
; | There is strong reason to believe that there is an evolution of spirit,
| j | step by step, up to incarnation, and that what we call earth-life is
| ]! only one of many stages which the spirit, when emancipated from the
j j I prison-house of the body, is able to survey.
W. Stainton Moses, M.A.
I /1 London, Jan. 25.  
j ) I THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF SPIRITUALISM.
I 7 |
Sir,—I had hoped to say my last in this controversy, but Mr. Mould
| (j has asked me—in the last number of The Spiritualist—some questions
I j) in so kind a spirit that I scarcely deem it fair to carry my lance out of
i j | the tournament without some answer being given to him.
He apparently wishes me to attempt to show that the “ note of unity ”
1)1 is existing in the Christian faith, as exhibited in the creeds of Uni-
| j i tarians, Trinitarians, Arminians, Calvinists, and a number of other
[ (i forms of opinion. To do so would involve a theological argument; and
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 31, 1879.
more, it would imply a departure from my original position. It is no
part of my undertaking to “bridge the gulf” existing between the in¬
tellectual conceptions of Arminians, Calvinists, or the like. The
dweller on the Mendip Hills has little to do with the sports of “ Giant |
Gomer” and “Giant Vincent” on Clifton Downs. Both an Arminian i
and a Calvinist would resent it as an impertinence if I were to attempt
to criticise, to impugn, to defend, or to palliate any system of theology j
they may possess. Nor do I think it necessary to enter into a polemical
discussion, which may be carried on in various methods and from various j J
standpoints. I am also under the disadvantage that whereas anybody [ i!
(who thinks it worth while) may know what is my own criterium of j H
truth, I am ignorant of the platform from whence my querist may wish to i j j
address me. As a bird which has before now flown a little across the i j i
theological arena, I rather object to salt being placed on my tail, and ! (!
have no intention to advocate the claims of any of the sects alluded to, j j j
or to depreciate any of them. The centre of Christian faith is inde- 111
pendent of any particular form, and I must refrain from attempting to j1 j
“ bridge the gulf” which some, at least, have excavated for themselves. | j
As I did not make the gulf, I am well content that it should exist; and | j I
I demur to all theological polemic as a side issue to the question I raised, i
“whether unity existed among Spiritualists?” If I have proved the |
negative of this proposition, it surely is unnecessary to expect me to | j
prove the affirmative of a proposition that unity exists somewhere else, j (j
To do so would infringe on the privileges of the advocates of the sects, | j
each of which claims unity, and require the train of reasoning of the i j
theologian, besides being far out of the wide limits allowed to con- j (j
tributors to The Spiritualist, with the liberality which has always j j j
characterised its editorship, ! H
I therefore must decline Mr. Mould’s kind invitation, at the same j (
time that I heartily commend to him for his perusal a rather elaborate I j j
argument on the subject, which he will find in the Commonitorium | j I
attached to Nakateni’s Cceleste Palmetum (Malines, 12mo., 1848), espe- I (j
cially on page 765. The perusal of this will save me making your j / j
readers tired with the recital of my individual faith or prepossessions, I j
or the reasons for the same, which are rather too long for the patience of |! i
that numerous class who, I hope, feel no interest in the matter j or, I j j j
will give Mr. Mould privately any reference he may desire.
C. Carter Blake. I} I
Sir,—As I do not imagine that you intend to open your columns to i j
a discussion respecting the doctrines and polity of the Roman Catholic j i
Church, I shall confine myself to simply answering Dr. Carter Blake’s ! (j
question indirectly addressed to myself. He says :—
“I must confess my entire ignorance of the time and place when i n
{sic) the Roman Church ‘ took upon itself—for a consideration—to ! (j
organise a belief for ’ Mr. Ellis.” j j I
My reply as to time is now; as to place is everywhere, but Rome I j!
in particular. j j j
Dr. Carter Blake disputes my argument that the ancient Hebrews so j j
entirely took for granted the belief in the immortality of the soul after j j
the death of the body, that they never thought it necessary to j (
formulate this belief into a distinct and definite shape ; and he refers i |
me in support of his doubts and views to the 113th Psalm.
I presume he means the 115th Psalm, as there, in the seventeenth | (j
verse, I find the words of which Dr. Carter Blake has given us the i > |
Latin version, and very significant words they are :— j i
“The dead praise not the Lord, neither any that go down into j ij
silence.” j i
Now, I maintain that from the whole of the Old Testament you j j j
could scarcely cull another passage which more clearly expresses the ! (j
opinion of Christian Spiritualists, who think that living souls praise | j j
the Lord, not the mortal persons who descend into the tomb. Our i i!
Saviour Himself said, in rebuking the Sadducees, “ God is not the God j (j
of the dead, but of the living.”
I can conceive the pitying stare of astonishment with which King j j j
David would regard the imputation that his words were capable of the i (i
misrepresentation that he did not believe in the immortality of his own j) |
soul. Theodore Ellis. h
London, 20th January, 1879.
Sir,—In your last number, “ A. J. C.” and others ask an ex- ! i j
planation of certain passages in my letter in The Spiritualist of the 1! j
10th inst.
I have also received private letters from Germany and elsewhere to 11
the same effect, and I most willingly, so far as I am able, respond to j |
these requests. I do this all the more willingly because “ Esoteric j j;
Christianity,” under the name of “ Christian Occultism,” is to be the ; J j
subject of the paper which I hope to read before the Association on j > j
the 3rd March, and it seems advisable that some light should be j j |
thrown on the matter as a preparatory step. j j |
In your last issue, Mrs. Matheson truly says that “the mystery j|
of the Logos is revealed from within ; ” but at the same time I j j j
believe that the esoteric view of Christianity can be set forth i j |
categorically. J
Mystical Christian writers generally repel superficial readers; but j j j
those who have pondered those writings, and have found, as it were, the j (!
“ mystical key ’’ in the illustrations furnished by the ecstatic entrance- j) j
ments of the psychics and saints, have had revealed to them the secret j j j
of the Logos as a fact, although none can possess the secret truly except ] (j
those who have been internally illuminated. j)!
Very briefly stated, the mystical views are to me somewhat as III
follows :— ' | j
1. The inner or esoteric essence of all religions is one and identical, • 11 j
namely, the longing of the soul to evoke its spiritual centre, and thus j j i
become en rapport, or at one, with the Supreme and Divine Centre— \) 1
God., ! 11
2. Man is a trinity of body, soul, and spirit.
3. The soul, or mind, or terrestrial ego controls the body during the
earth life.
4. The spirit is the God-like essence, the image, or gift of the
Creator which dwells hidden or submerged in the centre of the soul.
5. To “save the soul” man must “know himself,” and to do that
he must seek, find, and evoke his spirit, and, when found, unite it to
God actually, and thus become “ One with the Father.”
6. As a first step, man must determine to iC Love the Lord his God
with all his heart, and strength, and soul, and mind, and his neighbour
as himself.” He must resolve on a life of purity of thought, word,
and deed, be temperate in all things, and practice continual love, and
truth, and self-sacrifice.
7. The body and soul being thus prepared and purified by years of
constant discipline, the believer then proceeds, by intense desire and
prayer, to seek and evoke the hidden God-like spirit in the centre of
the soul, so as to become united to God in actual unity.
8. This is a work of immense difficulty, for “ many are called but few
are chosen,” and “ narrow is the gate that leadeth unto life, and few
there be that find it.” The difficulty is all the greater, because
“ whoso putteth his hand to the plough and tumeth back is not fit for the
kingdom of heaven,” and relapsing into selfishness, continually retards
the progress towards the light.
9. To those, however, who may be found worthy, the Spirit, the
Lord, the Word, the Logos, or the “ Christ within every man,” comes
suddenly to His temple, and the secret of the Logos is revealed in such
a way as eye hath not seen nor ear heard, nor hath it entered into the
heart of man to conceive.
10. The Spirit, or Holy Spirit, or Christ generically, thus becomes
the Saviour of the soul in this life, and man while on earth becomes
thus also in heaven, even as “ the Son of Man who is in heaven,” and
he thus becomes the Divine, the miraculous, the spiritual man.
11. This as a secret was revealed by Jesus when He took Peter, and
James, and John up into a high mountain apart, and as He prayed He was
transfigured before them, and His face shone as the sun, and His raiment
was white as the light.
12. Thus only can man while on earth have the kingdom of heaven,
which is within him revealed, and this transfiguration of Jesus of
Nazareth becomes the type of those acts whereby the saints have from
time to time been raised from the ground, while their faces shone with
effulgence, and their chambers became filled with light.
It is thus seen that man must “ work out his own salvation with fear
and trembling ” from the centre of his own soul, and that any priestly
intervention must be an interference with the divine anatomy of the
soul, for the Christ in man is the Saviour of the body and soul as
physiological and psychological facts.
This is the truest and highest theosophy, and has only been attained
to in rare instances and at long intervals, although the time may
possibly be not far distant when the Divine man may become more
manifested to the world.
Meanwhile, it will be found an ample work to prepare to live the
life ; and the truer the life led the greater will become the health and
strength, and wisdom and light of mind and body.
The reason, I conceive, why the mystics concealed their views under
enigmatical language was, in the first place, as a protection to them¬
selves in times of Church persecutions, and also in order that the
worthy only should understand the mystery; for they knew that the
powers of evil magic could be obtained by the practice of severe bodily
austerities united with intense will force, and that such powers became
demoniacal in the hands of wicked men and women.
There is a superficial analogy between the esoteric doctrine of the
salvation of the soul and the epidemic conversions of revival periods ;
but this last not being prepared for by a life of continual self-sacrifice,
is like the good seed which “ fell on stony ground where it had not much
earth; and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth:
but when the sun was up it was scorched, and because it had no root it
withered away.” Further, these conversions being unaccompanied by
the gifts of prophecy and healing, cannot be the truest salvation of the
soul.
The views I have expressed have come to me during many years
study of ecstatic entrancement, together with a continual study of the
life-teachings of Jesus the Christ, and latterly by a study of the lives
of the saints. George Wyld, M.D.
SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW.
Sir,—To-day is the birthday of Burns—Scotland’s son, Scotland’s
poet—misunderstood in his life, and worshipped after death, in common
with all the great and good. Amidst the gloom of weather, hearts, and
markets, a ray of light breaks through from the birthday remembrance
of this great but heretical soul. Notwithstanding the depression of
trade, and the excitement of the unfortunate City Bank trial, “ Robbie's
no forgot.” The Spirituahsts in Glasgow, with a number of temperance
friends, met at a social gathering in the Trongate last night; Mr.
Robertson, secretary of the Glasgow Spiritual Association, read an able
paper appropriate to the occasion. Songs and recitations were the
order of the hour, and an enjoyable “ nicht wi’ Burns ’’ was spent.
There is an amount of cheerfulness in the city, and should a stranger
ask the cause, he is at once informed that it is Burns’s birthday. A
large number of seances is held here, and I regret that I have been com¬
pelled, from professional work, to decline invitations to many of them.
Mr. David Duguid, the “ Hafed ” medium, holds two seances weekly—
one at his private residence, every Wednesday evening at eight p.m., to
a select circle of constant sitters, who have met thus for years. Under
these favourable conditions, surprising manifestations occur under strict
test conditions. Direct writing, direct painting, landscape, and minia¬
ture, being produced with several colours on “ marked’’ cards, in from
Jan. 31, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
59
a minute to a minute and a half. Dr. Wyld said some time ago he
would gladly give £50 for positive evidence of direct writing. I venture
to think Mr. Duguid’s controls would not undertake this for money, but
if Dr. Wyld will forward me two slates, with or without pencil, bound
together in such a manner that they could not be opened without de¬
tection, I will willingly see what can be done in the matter. If accom¬
plished (concerning which I have no doubt), I have every reason to
believe that Dr. Wyld will find some useful way to invest £50 or more
for the benefit of humanity, physically and spiritually. The power
is very great at these seances, and I do not see that direct
writing, conjoined to the passage of matter through matter, may
not be as easy of production as “ tying a knot on an endless cord.”
Mr. Duguid’s second seance is given every Friday evening to members of
the Association in their rooms. Trance addresses and answering ques¬
tions are the leading features. These meetings are generally attended by
the same persons, so the miseries of promiscuous stances are advan¬
tageously avoided. Mr. Robert Duguid, a brother of the gentleman
mentioned, is also a medium. A circle of earnest investigators is held
at his house every week. Trance and clairvoyance are the principal
phenomena. Another circle has been held in the house of Mr. Bowman,
the photographer, of Jamaica-street, during the last four months, every
Sunday morning at 11 o’clock. The spirits or intelligences controlling
the medium give great satisfaction ; they enunciate broad views, prac¬
tical in character, and eminently adapted to the concerns of everyday
life. To certain learned minds Spiritualism, although investigated by
them before I was bom, affords no evidence of a “ life hereafter ” or
immortality. To my mind there is one thing which creates in me a most
profound impression, namely, the universal fact in modern Spiritualism,
that all <lcontrols,” “intelligences,’’ seen and unseen, “forms,” and
“ materialised spirits ” claim to have once lived upon this earth; also
the words and deeds of many of them are awfully human. In fact
“medium,” “spirit of the medium,” “will power,” and the “etc.”
which covers all the rest of the speculations, has been utterly unable
to account for a single rap, since the so-called spirit of a murdered
pedlar thirty years ago said he did it. Philosophers differ, so do
doctors, here, and I have no doubt hereafter ; but upon this point all
“spirits’’are agreed, “they once lived on earth.” They are the same
Tom, Dick, and sweet Arabella we once knew. The public Sunday
services of the Association continue to be fairly attended. Mr. Alex.
Duguid, a third of the medical brothers, favoured us last Sunday with
an inspirational address on the “NewDispensation.” To describe it as
an oratorical effort of the first order is not saying too much. Mr.
Alex. Duguid will occupy the platform of the Association six
times during the coming year. It is commonly reported that
Mr. A. Duguid is about to take the field as one of the
forlorn hope—one of the public mediums. He is known for his
thorough earnestness, and has a large stock of zeal and enthusiasm to
back him in his work; he is a trance clairvoyant and test medium.
Mr. Wallis will occupy the platform of the Association next Sunday,
at eleven a.m. and half-past six p.m. ; the subjects will be selected by
the audience. He will also lecture on the following Monday at eight
p.m. Mr. Wallis’s last visit to Glasgow gave such satisfaction that
the Association have arranged with him to deliver a series of lectures
during the year.
If Spiritualism, real and true, is not making much noise in these
parts, “ the work goes bravely on.” The tricks of conjurers may
amuse, create a hearty laugh, and thus do good ; the lies of conjurers
may deceive for a little ; but time will test and wipe them out. Truth
will prevail, and Spiritualism itself stand the test of man’s enlightened
reason and conscience. The truth will remain to cheer our hearts and
help us to bear the discipline of this life; for life has its duties, the
performance of which forms the steps to the greater and real spiritual
life, the full enjoyment of which is the right, I believe, alike of peasant
and king. J. Coates.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE SPIRITUAL EVIDENCE SOCIETY.
The quarterly meeting of the Newcastle Spiritualists’ Society, under
the presidency of Mr. John Mould, was held on Wednesday evening last
week. There was a good attendance of members. After the usual pre¬
liminary business was concluded, the secretary proceeded to read the
quarterly report, which stated that there had been twenty-six seances
during the quarter, at which 284 members had been present. After the
report had been carried, the question of the re-engagement of Mr. J. J.
Morse came forward, when it was ultimately moved by Mr. Hakersey,
and seconded by Mr. Geo. Wilson, that “ Mr. Morse be engaged for
twelve months, but that the terms of the engagement be left with the
committee.” Only one voted against the motion.
Mr. H. A. Kersey moved, “ That the name of the society be changed
from its present title ‘ Psychological,’ to that of the ‘ Newcastle
Spiritualists’ Society,’ ” as he thought that they ought to have a name
which described what they meant. He had long thought that the
present title was unsuited to the objects of the society.
Mr. Geo. Wilson seconded the motion.
Mr. W. C. Robson opposed the motion, as he thought that its present
title was much better, seeing that the society included not only Spirit¬
ualists, but a great many who were only investigators. They did not
want to make a sect of Spiritualism, but if they made it a “ Spiritualists’
Society,” they barred the door against new inquirers.
Mr. Kay moved an amendment, “ That the name of the society
should be the ‘ Newcastle-on-Tyne Spiritual Evidence Society.’ ” He
said that the word psychological did not convey any meaning to the
outside world.
Mr. Dawson, in a few appropriate remarks, seconded the amendment.
A good discussion followed, and on the votes being taken the motion
was lost by a large majority; only five voting for it, and twenty-one
against. The amendment was ultimately carried by a small majority on
being put against the original title.
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
The following details about the council and constitution of the Psycho¬
logical Society of Great Britain may be of interest:—Its place of meeting
is 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, London, W., and it was
established in 1875. President, Mr. Serjeant Cox. Vice-Presidents,
Lord Borthwick, Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., and Mr. George
Harris, LL.D. Council, Mr. W. H. T. Balliston, Mr. P. W. Clay den,
Mr. W. H. Coffin, Mr. R. H. W. Dunlop, C.B., Mr. E. B. Florence,
Mr. J. Percy Gordon, Lieutenant-Colonel Hartley, LL.D., Captain
Kelso, R.N., Mr. T. Russel Kent, the Rev. W. S. Moses, M.A.,
Mr. F. Myers, Mr. 0. C. Massey, Mr. F. W. Percival, M.A., Pro¬
fessor C. J. Plumptre, Mr. Deputy Saunders, Mr. G. M. Tagore,
and Mr. C. S. Wake. Hon. Sec. and Treasurer, Mr. Francis K.
Munton.
The following are the rules of the Society :—
1. —This Society is formed for the promotion of Psychological
science in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the
forces, organic and intelligent, that move and direct the material
mechanism of man.
2. —The Society consists of ordinary members and honorary and
corresponding members.
3. —The government of the Society is vested in the Council; and the
Council, elected as hereinafter mentioned, consists of the president,
six vice-presidents, a treasurer, a secretary, and eighteen ordinary
members, of whom six shall retire annually, the retiring members
to be selected by lot, and to be eligible for re-election for the ensuing
year.
4. —The president, vice-presidents, treasurer, secretary, and six of
the ordinary members of the Council shall be elected by ballot at the
annual general meeting.
5. —If, in the interval between two annual meetings, any vacancy in
the Council shall occur, the Council shall have the power of appointing
some member of the Society to fill such vacancy.
6. —The election of members is deputed to the Council. Each candi¬
date for admission must be proposed by a member of the Society, or
give references satisfactory to the Council.
7. —Every person elected shall, on producing the treasurer’s
certificate that the payments hereinafter directed have been made, be
admitted by the chairman at the first ordinary meeting at which he
is present, according to the following form :—“ In the name, and by
the authority of the Psychological Society of Great Britain, I admit
you a member thereof.”
8. —Each member resident within twenty miles of London shall pay
an annual subscription of two guineas ; beyond that distance one guinea.
Such annual subscriptions can at any time be compounded for by a
payment of twenty guineas or ten guineas respectively.
9. —Ladies’ tickets may be issued by the Council at one guinea per
annum, admitting to all meetings not expressly excepted in the notice,
and entitling to all the publications of the Society.
10. —All annual subscriptions become due on the 1st day of January
in each year ; but an original subscription commencing after the 31st
day of October extends to the end of the following year.
11. —Whenever a member shall be one year in arrear in the pay¬
ment of his annual contributions, the treasurer shall apprise him by
letter, and if the arrears be not paid within one month after the
forwarding of such letter, the treasurer shall report such default to
the Council, and the Council shall use its discretion in erasing the
name of such member from the list; and he shall not be allowed to
attend the meetings of the Society, nor to enjoy any of Ps privileges,
until his arrears be paid.
12. —Any member may withdraw from the Society by signifying his
wish to do so by letter under his own hand addressed to the secretary.
Such member shall, however, be liable to the contribution of the year
in which he signifies his wish to withdraw, and shall continue liable to
the annual subscription until he shall have discharged all sums due by
him to the Society.
13. —Should there appear cause in the opinion of the Council for the
expulsion from the Society of any member, a special meeting of the
Council shall be called for that purpose; and if three-fourths of those
voting agree by ballot that such member be expelled, his name shall
be erased from the list of members.
14. —A general meeting shall be held annually on the third
Thursday in May, to receive the report of the secretary on the state
of the Society, and to discuss and determine such matters as may be
brought forward by the Council relative to the affairs of the Society.
No law of the Society shall be altered except by resolution at a general
meeting.
15. —The Council shall call a special general meeting of the Society
whenever it seems to them necessary, or when required by any five
members to do so. Every such requisition shall be signed by five or
more members, and shall specify, in the form of a resolution, the object
intended to be submitted to the meeting.
16. —The requisition, the resolution, and the notice of the special
meeting shall be sent to all members one fortnight previous to such
meeting; and at the meeting the discussion shall be confined to tha
object specified in the motion.
17. —The ordinary meetings of the Society shall be held on the first
and third Thursdays in every month from November to June both
inclusive ; and a printed card of such meetings shall be sent to each
member before the commencement of the session.
18. —Business shall commence at half-past eight o’clock in the
evening precisely, when the minutes of the preceding ordinary meeting
shall be read.
19. —The regular business of ordinary meetings shall be to read the
minutes of the preceding meeting, and to read and discuss such com-
60
Jan. 31, 1879,
THE SP
munications relating to Psychology as have been approved by the
Council and ordered to be read at the meeting.
20. —Every member shall have the privilege of introducing two
visitors (personally or by written order) at all ordinary meetings of the
Society, but the name and that of the member introducing shall be
entered in a book kept for the purpose.
21. —At an ordinary meeting no question relating to the laws or
management of the Society shall be introduced.
22. —The president, or any three members of the Council, may at
any time call a meeting of the Council, to which the whole Council
shall be summoned.
23. —In all meetings of the Council three shall be a quorum. All
questions shall be settled by vote unless a ballot be demanded, the
chairman having, in case of an equality, a casting vote.
24. —The president shall take the chair at every meeting of the
Society or of the Council at which he may be present; he shall keep
order in all proceedings, submit questions to the meeting, and perform
the other customary duties of a chairman.
25. —It is the duty of the president to execute and cause to be
executed the regulations of the Society; to see that all the officers
of the Society and members of the Council and of committees perform
the duties assigned to, or undertaken by them respectively; to call
for reports and accounts from committees and persons ; to cause, of his
own authority, and when necessary, special meetings of the Council and
of committees to be summoned; and to propose, from time to time, to
the Council such measures as shall appear to him conducive to the
welfare of the Society.
26. —As chairman of the Council he shall appoint referees to examine
and report on original papers communicated to the Society, previous to
their being read or published.
27. —In the absence of the president, the senior vice-president at the
meeting shall preside. If no vice-president be present, the meeting
shall elect any member present as president for the evening.
28. —The Council may appoint committees for any purpose, and
delegate to such committees all necessary powers for the performance of
their duties.
29. —The secretary has a general charge of all the arrangements,
and the execution of all the directions, of the Council and of the Society,
and the immediate superintendence of all persons employed by the
Society ; charge of its books and papers, and also, conjointly with the
treasurer, of the accounts of the Society.
30. —The whole of the property and effects of the Society of what
kind soever, shall be vested in three trustees for its use : one of
which trustees shall always be tbe treasurer for the time being; and
two shall be chosen by the members at a general meeting of the
society,
31. —Every paper presented to the Society shall in consequence of
such presentation be considered as the property of the Society, unless
there shall have been any previous engagement with its anthor to the
contrary ; and the Council may publish the same, in any way, and at
any time, that they may think proper. But should the Council refuse
or neglect, within a reasonable time, to publish any such paper, the
author shall have a right to copy the same, and publish it under his
own direction. No other person shall publish any paper belonging to
the Society without the previous consent of the Council.
32. —No paper shall be read exceeding twenty minutes in the reading,
no speaker thereon shall exceed ten minutes, and the author shall be
allowed fifteen minutes for reply. But any of the limits may be ex¬
tended by the chairman with the consent of the meeting. No speech
shall be commenced after 10 p.m. except the reply.
33. —Honorary members of the Society shall be selected by the
Council from men eminent in psychological science throughout the
world.
34. —Corresponding members shall also be elected, to consist of
gentlemen residing in foreign countries, capable of furnishing informa¬
tion on subjects of interest to the Society.
SPIBITUAL PHENOMENA IN AUSTRALIA.
Mb. Jesse Shepabd, the medium, is in Australia, and the Sydney
Evening News of October 19 last, publishes the following account of a
seance with him:—
A circle of ten, for the most part well-known citizens acquainted with
each other, and above suspicion of collusion, met at Mr. Shepard’s
rooms, at Mona House, Wynyard-square, on Friday evening last at
eight o’clock. Our seance commenced by the sitters writing the names
of any friend they wished to communicate with on slips of paper, which
being folded up and placed before the medium, he took them up in turn,
and soon obtained written answers from some who announced their
presence. Two were received from very ancient spirits who purported
to be present. One came in with the sitter who arrived last—a stranger
to Mr. Shepard—who said immediately upon his entrance, “ A Greek
spirit has come in with you, who has been trying to influence you.’’
This the gentleman, himself a medium, acknowledged to have been
the case.
•The writing by spirit agency, however, not being a specialty of Mr.
Shepard, proved so exhausting to him that his invisible friends com¬
manded him to close with a short developing circle.
The doors were accordingly locked and the lights extinguished, and
the sitters joining hands were invited to engage in singing well-known
hymns. Before the lights were well out the writer was patted gently on
the hands by little fingers, which she recognised as those of her departed
child, whose name was given as present, and who afterwards encircled
her with his arms from behind. Mr. Shepard, it should be stated, was
sitting in front of a piano, with a heavy table four feet by two and a
half between him and the sitters, whose chairs were arranged in semi-
IRITUALIST.
|) i circular order towards him. Soon all present were being touched and
| u spoken to by their invisible friends. One well-known control in Sydney
i) | circles, of the gentleman spoken of above, sustained a prolonged con-
!) | versation with him in the direct voice, and also did the same with one
W or more besides, asserting he would show his power, which he did with
i) | a vengeance at the conclusion. All this time a guitar and tambourine
u at first upon the table were off, and being carried about and
\ I played by the invisibles—now resting on some of the hands of
j) | the sitters, now upon their heads; whilst the medium, from
|! his seat near the piano, was continually speaking, giving the names of
j (| spirits present and messages from them, and occasionally drawing
) | sweetest music from the instrument. Several in the circle were con-
I (j trolled by spirits—two gentlemen spoke in foreign tongues—and two
i j | ladies were simultaneously inspired by different singers. Presently Mr.
I j | Shepard announced that Malibran would herself sing through him her
I (| favourite song from the opera of II Puritani—always received with the
11 greatest applause while she was in earth life, and which she hoped
) | would be appreciated by those composing the circle. The company were
| j then enraptured with the most heavenly music (vocal and instrumental)
j | i that can be conceived, the guitar also accompanying, and were also
| /1 treated to a ravishing duet by the medium and one of the ladies. The
| j | singers, it appeared, were controlled by departed celebrities, while the
| > i charming accompaniment was attributable to the influence of another.
111 This wonderful seance was drawn to a close by the table—no light one—
I j | being raised from the ground, without contact; and after some little
) j delay, from resting on the hands of the sitters, it was cast over
) | their heads on to the floor, outside the circle. The spirit visitors then
\ | said “ Good night," the father of the writer breathing, in his own well-
| remembered voice, “ God bless you!” while his tender hand was laid
| i upon her forehead,
Tne above is a most incomplete and inadequate account of this never-
j | to-be-forgotten evening, the foregoing particulars of which are found to
be corroborated by the other sitters spoken to on the subject, except
j i where the experience related would naturally be confined to the mind of
i the narrator.—Communicated .
| ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
) I B.—A movement which includes among its believers some of the chief crowned
)! heads of Europe, can afford to treat with indifference the misrepresenta¬
tions of a few Scotch professors who mislead those who trust in them.
Will be ready in a few days,
SPIEIT-ID ENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Cloth 8v0, red edges, price 6s, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
) I Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
(i writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens,
) j The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
(i Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
I Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN TIBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
| By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
I observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ-
i ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
I Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
i “Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
| Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
i poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
' The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 31, 1879.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Bepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Bussell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by "William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals twere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there Is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes Inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORkS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Sees'." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ III. ,. ..76
The Reformei „ IV. „ . . • • 7 6
The Thinker. .. Y. . . . • - 7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . .76
Arabuia, or Divine Guest . . . • • 7 0
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . • .20
Death and the After-Life . . . • • .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . • • .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . • .76
Harmonlal Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . • • .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spirituat Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . . 5 0
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .... 30
Morning Lectures . . . . • • .76
14
18 0
12 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) •
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds ......
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . ,
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my .Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes: or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation or the United States of America
at Constantinople . ... 1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three veils. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOK DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says;—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The.real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
now to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced hy Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoh and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived Ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the gennineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed hy the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are tbe ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’’—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—^Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—^Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter Vl.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—^Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C.*F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—CMvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message or Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound In one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society and the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes's
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightuing conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes canuot be had separately. Price,
carnage.'paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London; W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
Prioe five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubb&—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Predude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.U.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Beniamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediomship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
HI.—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treheme) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals.
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By £. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—•• Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVlI.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon."
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.  
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.' C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXI11.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.— The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Oj.on.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison. fi 1
XXXVI.—The Predicdon. By Alice Worthington (Eunesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury ' ■ „
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. Bv Alex.
O&ld
XLI. Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
Xlll Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII. Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature a^d
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great liussell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 31, 1879
The tkapped medium ; ok, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. ■ A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers. — This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,B.I.G-.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little hook for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally, A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 anfi 1), Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Peize Essays.
The probable effects of spirit¬
ualism UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second gold Medals
of the British National association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
tubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not), they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, ‘ ‘ If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ’’ Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such .manifestations ratber than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two stances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—1. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride's Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. ‘‘ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung,—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Underthe Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No'one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and revievved by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russefi-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 587? (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine,
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison's Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If out readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none." f
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us o f the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story- is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit ana humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get»up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, whioh
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \_N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, ishound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.’’
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Graoe
the Duke of Argyll.
1 The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Cbjects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovisi on—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Me.smerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ilritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerlsm—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Visipn—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Sublect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrait—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an impressible
State—Mr. Lewis's Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER Xlll:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phren©-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XlV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—^Travelling Clair-
voyaiice—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance —Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London ,E.O.
