Registebed is i Newspapeb.
Otf f^YdSO^OG^ ld®I<
^di^>fd sl.
©tat Hfrfosppr mtEertfifr toit| Spritualism m feat Iritam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : ix, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor JG. Parisi,Via Della Maltonaia. ROME:
Signor Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly and Co. NEWJYORK:
51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light ” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. SAN FRAN¬
CISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 348.—(Y01. xiv.—No. 17.)
Contents*
A Drawing-room Meeting 193
An Affidavit about Henry Slade’s Mediumship 196
Correspondence -Dr. Monck  .. 197
Evenings with the Indwellers of the Spirit World. By
Frederick Hockley  198
Exoteric Observation of Spiritualism By the Rev.
W. Miall .. .. ..   ,. 19S
Fire at the Spiritualist Printing Office 203
Paragraph—Mediumship .. ..   203
‘‘THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics
of Spiritualism.
rUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
Unite! Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated
Spiritualists in all the English speaking countries throughout
the Globe ; it also has an influential body of readers on the
Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading
and more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in
the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among
those who have published their names in connection with their
communications in its columns are Mr. C. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.;
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal
of Science ’’ (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but has,
up to the present time, expressed no decided opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, President of the Biological Sec¬
tion of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
(1876); Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the
Right Hon. the Countess of Caithness ; His Imperial Highness
Nicholas of Russia (Duke of Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S. ; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
(formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples); Baron
Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald Massey; Le Comte
de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly American
Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Parkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, Presi¬
dent of the British National Association of Spiritualists; the
Rev. J. Tyerman (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.);
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George
Wyld ; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
kof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order
of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay
(Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital ; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C, Luxmoore ; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B,
(India); Mrs. Honeywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr,
Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon);
Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian
Reimers; Mr. Wiliiam White (author of the “ Life of Sweden¬
borg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D. ; the Rev. C. Maur ce Davies,
D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S-A.;
Mrs. 8. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL,M. ; Mr. C. Con¬
stant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; M’-. William Oxley:
Miss Kisliugbury ; Miss A.;Blackwell (Paris) ; Mrs. F. Showers ;
Mr. J. N. T. Mathese; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr.
W. Lindsay Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other
ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom,
10s.-lOd.; in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig : 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence : Signor G. Parisi,
Via Della Maltonia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russel-street. Shanghai : Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal
Ofjiee. Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Ikancisco: 319,
Keainey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, London W.C.
LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1879.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours
of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Sat¬
urday-, when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and
6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR APRIL.
Tuesday, IsJ.—Soiree Committee at 6 p.m.
,, „ House and Offices Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Friday, 4th, and succeeding Fridays (except Fri¬
day, llth).—Experimental Research
Committee at 7 p.m.
Monday, 7th.—General Purposes Committee at 4.30
p.m. Fortnightly Discussion Meet¬
ing at 8 p.m. Paper by Mr. Mdrell
Theobald, “ Experiences in the Home
Circle, No. II.”
Tuesday, 8th,—Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ ,, Council Meeting- at 6.30 p.m.
Monday, 21s<.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8
p.m. Paper by the Rev. W. Miall
“On Exoteric Observations on Spiritu¬
alism.”
Tuesday, 29th.—Soirde at 38, Great Russell-street.
Music, Conversation, and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akebman Road, Bbixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books
on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
•apply to— H. E. FRANCES. Hon. Sec.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
WILL HOLD
SUNDAY EVENING SERVICES
AT
STEINWAY HALL,
Lower Seymour-street, Portman square, London, W.
ADMISSION FREE.
Those subscribing One Guinea are entitled to sofa stalls;
other subscribers of 10s. 6d. and 5s. are given numbered
stalls. Tickets date from April 1st to June 30th. To be
obtained from Mr. Fletcher, 4, Bloomsbury-place, W.O., and
Miss Leslie Younge, 32, Fairfax road, N.W. Lecture at
7.30 p.m.
A MUSICAL SOIREE
WILL BE HELD AT 38, GBEAI BUSSELL STBEET,
ON TUESDAY NEXT, 29th INST.,
When the following Ladies and Gentlemen have kindly
promised to give their servicesMiss Beaumont, Miss
Blanche Beaumont, Miss Catherine Poyntz, Mrs. Ellis, Miss
Withall, Miss H. Withall, Mr. E. A. Tiet-Kens, and Mr. R.
Palmer Thomas. Recitations will also be given by Miss
Ella Dietz and Mr. Frank Dietz.
Refreshments at 7 o’clock ; Music to commence at 8 p.m.
Tickets of admission. Is. each, may be had of the Secretary,
38, Great Russell-street.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.George’s-rd. j
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mb. Sebjbant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent,
that move and direct the material mechanism of man. Com¬
munications as to alleged phenomena are invited by the
Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings with¬
out subscribing to or recognising any particular theory or
belief.
All particulars may be'obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the 120th thousand,
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubnbb & Co. London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “ MODEL ” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
Yon will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. J. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms :—3, Ludgate Cibcus Building®, London, E.C
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “ HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &d., &c,
post free, seven stamps:
APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions
of events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a
large hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lanca¬
shire quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the
British armaments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I„ by
which any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth
gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Annali dello spiritismo in
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filatete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, 'Tip.
Baglione, via Boginq, No. 23.
SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly
Journal devoted to the investigation of the unexplained
phenomena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandee Aksakof,
and contributed to by several German and foreign men of
science. Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze.
London: The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BIRKBEOK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST fer stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Conpohs. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 till 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application. ,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE STIHITHALIST.
April 25, 18t9
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Pbesidbnt.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington,
S.W.
Vice-Pkesidenxs.
Coleman, Benjaiain, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Mtz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Pitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-
buildings, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13,
Alexandra-road, South Hampstead. N.W. —
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park,
W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newoastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Yale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos. late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road,
Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 6, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 69, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road, New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square,
W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lampart-hall, Northampton.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower street, W.O.
March, R. A., Heaton Yillas, 71, Greenwood road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree terrace, Uttoxeter road.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish road, Blundel Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, O., 16. Harpur street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgill, W.O., 3, Blandford square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Momington road, Regent’s park.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum Yillas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolf crescent, Maida vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Ann street, Cavendish
square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds,
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1,
Hereford square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, MissH,, 1, The Elms, St. John’sroad, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Honobabv Tbeasubeb.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford square. South Kensington,
S.W.
Aumiobb.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G, H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobold, Esq.
Secbetaby.
' M. Leon Favre, Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Phila¬
delphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de
1’Europe, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 286, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck,
Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue dePalias 137, Sohaerbeck, Lex-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cavuga Co., New York,
U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel del’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-
square, London, N.W-
Captam R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul; Trieste,
Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S,, Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
IsaacB. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eporjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaje,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr, J. H., Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near
Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Huchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavillion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H, J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blynton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 46 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fitz,
121, Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Fraces,
Esq., 22, Cowley-roaa, Bnxton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda Pesth. Secretary, M.
Anton Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse,
23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquiries into Spiritualism. Hon.
Secretary, T. Blynton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec. Mr. A. J. Smart, 22,
Moira-place—Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola Cerventes, 34, 28, Madrid.
President—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Maxicana. Presi¬
dent—-Senor Refugio T Gonzalez, 7, Calle ,de Almedo,
Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Columbia, South America.
President, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading room and library, with a secre¬
tary in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries.
Seances can be attended by recommendation from a member.
For terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. j. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual Literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 till 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses in
London or the provinces. Address, 36, Blurton-road, Clap-
ton-park, E.
'V/TISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
-LtJL 45, Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock.
Voluntary contributions. Private seances attended. Appli¬
cation by letter in the first instance.
RS. WOODFORDE, Developing and
Healing. Medical advice to ladies and children.
Terms modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of
business—Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Satur¬
days, from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. 90; Great RusseU-street, Blooms¬
bury, W.C.
RS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Frank¬
lin, gives seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-
square, from 2 to 6, every day except Sunday, and every
evening from 8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engage¬
ments can be made by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Handwriting, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients, and may be consulted daily
from 2 till 6 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbrny,
London, W.C.
HoKOBABV OB COBRESPONDINCr MEMBERS.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburgh, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj6,
Capoussou, Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at
Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach,
Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gueldenstubb, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde deTorres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
The Baron von Dirchinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-
Mer.
Boboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Bariway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma HarcUnge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude, Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg
University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C.Wittig, Esq.,Kornerstrasse, 2B,Leipsio, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, South Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Reu Neuve, des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy,
1, Paris,
Epes Sergent, Esq., Box 2,986, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A..
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenuerBrooklyn, New
York, U.S.A.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer Of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of Truth
—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—V. Love
and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII. The Burial of
Webster— VIII. Thepartingof Sigurd and Gurda —IX. The
meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part H.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope for
the Sorrowing—XIH. Compensation—XIV. The Eagle of
Freedon—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII.
“ Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX
“ I still Live”—XX. Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”
—XXIH. Words o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
prophecy of V ala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle
or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The
Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same authoress, a companion volume, price
5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPITITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It
shows (we think successfully) that every form of medium-
ship, now so familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical
records of identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one,Is.—These books, consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con-
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrow¬
ing parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
ANNIE LOOMIS, previous to withdrawal
from the Profession, can be consulted for one month,
at 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury. Hours 12 to 5. Free con¬
sultation to the poor, Saturday.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal deludes psycho-
logiques, fondd par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Societe
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: the oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at no 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colbyand Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac
B. Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor : aided by
a large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first class, eight
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical, and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit message department; contributions bythe most talented
writers in the world, &c. &c. Terms of subscription, in ad¬
vance, 16s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
FOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodgings on
moderate terms. References ‘to Spiritualisti can be
riven. E. Newman. 11. St. Michael’s-terrace. Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the
city, by an English brother. The apartments can only ac¬
commodate four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3
per week each; or, for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two
occupy one room. Address, S.T., care of M. A, Mallett, 8,
Rue de la Cossonerie, Paris.
jl llfftxirfr xif xif nub af ^|ti^ifttmi$m+
No. 348,—VOjLUJVIE FOURTEEN | Nuj^BER SeYE^TEE]^,
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 2Bth, 1879.
A DRAWING-ROOM MEETING.
Last Monday night, at one of the receptions of Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory, at 21, Green Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, the appended paper about ■ Spiritualism was read
by Mr. James Campbell, President of the Cambridge Uni¬
versity Society for Psychological Investigation. Among the
guests present were Sir Patrick Colquhoun, Lady Colquhoun,
Lieut.-Col. Gregory, Mr. Maitland Crichton, Miss Cecilia
Douglas, the Hon. Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence, the Rev.
Reginald Haweis, Mrs. Haweis, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Sir
William Dunbar, Bart. ; the Yen. Archdeacon Dunbar, Mrs.
Linwood Strong, Miss Strong, Miss Emmet, Miss Laura
Emmet, Lady Yere Cameron, of Lochiel; Mr. F. W. Perci-
val, M.A., Miss Caroline Burke, Mr. Blount, Mr. G. C. Joad,
Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, Mr. Clements Redfem, Mr. Algernon
Joy, M.Inst.C.E,, Professor Ansted, Mrs. Ansted, Major
and Mrs. Mackenzie, Lady Cranstoun, the Lady Sandys, the
Hon. Mrs. Brown, Mrs. Ramsay, Mr. Annesley Mayne, Mrs.
Wiseman, Miss Mattie Houghton, Miss Godfrey, Mrs.
Showers, Mr. C. E. Williams, Mr. Colman, Mr. Hensleigh
Wedgwood, Mrs. James (Miss Showers), Signor Rondi, Mr.
George Scott Douglas, and Mr. Harrison.
THE RECORD OF THE SEERS CONCERNING THE GREAT CHANGE.
At Eastertide when, if we are silent, every hedgerow is
crying out, when every budding rod is speaking to us more
forcibly even than to Athenian and to Israelite of the transi¬
tory phenomenon of death and the eternal fact of resurrection,
I cannot, if I would, apologise to you for the subject of my
paper. I cannot believe that I shall sadden any of your
hearts by speaking to you of that great change which is so
certainly before us all.
Not that I myself consider that the soaring joy of Easter¬
tide is always possible to us more than to our earth-mother,
or that it is even desirable that it should be constantly ours.
The great fact of death has many aspects in which we may
regard it, and I think I shall be able to show you to-night
that to the spiritually strongest men it has presented itself
universally under all of them : there has been the gloom of
the cold, grey sea, and the stillness of the valley of the shadow,
as well as the living green which shines clear in the guiding
eyes of the Greek spirit of life, and clothes the sweet and
distant fields where those who have overcome shall walk with
Him in white; and the noblest deaths as the noblest lives
have been those in which, if there has been no dread of future
punishment, there has been no looking for future bliss, though
faith in both were generally abundantly present. At the
outset of this paper, though if not for the matter, for the
manner at any rate, I feel that I owe you an apology. The
influences to which I have been and am subject—some of
them, you will allow me to believe (those of you who are not
Spiritualists), from another life than that which surrounds us
here on earth—have been and are so strong upon me that
they mould both my thought and my expression, and from
being myself unable to grasp fully what comes to me and to
give it forth as my masters would themselves do clearly, my
words, I know, must often only confuse instead of making plain,
and my sentences appear to be hyperbolical and vague when
all my effort has been to make myself understood. Still I can
do no other, and crave your indulgence for unintentional
weakness.
Let me go on, then, to my subject. The title that I
have chosen for my paper will show you that I intend to
deal this evening purely with the records of the past; for I
believe that the present can be understood rightly only in the
light of it, that reverent and may I add entire dependence on
what is worthy of worship in former times is, in truth, one
of our deepest needs—if we desire that our knowledge shall be
well proven instead of doubtful, and useful instead of vain.
Our science/’ I say. When shall we return to the using
of words in their simple and straightforward sense ? When
j shall this much insulted word mean for us once more simply
I knowledge ? When shall we be able once more to speak and
H i hear it peacefully without unpleasant associations of explo-
j|j sions, railway trains, and the Darwinian theory? I pray
151 God soon; and then we shall find out that Goethe and Carlyle
I were right when they told us that “seer” and “scientific
man ” were but two names for the same person, who speaks
that which he knows, and testifies that which he has seen,
1 with physical eyesight or with spiritual, and of that only—
and that Plato was right when he defines this sort of scien-
;)| tific person as “one who is able to grasp the eternal, and
|i<| hence is spectator of all time and of all existence} lost
j in his longing after the universal law that knits together
human things with divine, he shows himself gentle and
without fear, having no terror even of death,” how would
this definition sound in the ears of the British Association of
\A knowing men who meet for the advancement of knowledge,
j (i for most of whom there exists no law of any sort beyond
1| fortuitous concurrence, and no things unresolvable finally
j into evil-smelling gases ? It will appear to you that I have
some animosity against “ physical ” scientists when I speak
| thus of them, but such is not the case, for who are more
i noble than some of them, or more good ? But I do protest
j yj against that being called knowledge of a thing, which tells
| / i you merely the external accidents of its existence, and against
jyj that person being called scientific who can, by his nature, do
|| no more than measure and dissect—important as such work
undoubtedly is. From having come to regard these mere
phenomenal things as real things, in this purblind hobble-
de-hoy age of ours, zoology has become for us the piecing of
| skeletons, botany the cutting up of flowers, and Spiritualism
jyj threatens to become the study of “ atomic” structure. I say
I this sadly, but I say it because it seems to me to be true; and
if Spiritualism does indeed finally rank herself in that faithless
and cold circle of independent sciences, she will then have
become what her enemies declare her even now to be—a siren
luring men into that bottomless pit in which things are not,
iV| and yet appear to be. For surely little-mindedness thwarts
j); above everything the soul that is destined ever to aspire to
iyl grasp truth, both human and divine, in its wholeness and
! universality, as says Plato. So then I can tell you now,
shortly and exactly, what I mean when I speak of a seer, the
man who apprehends to some extent—
“ (1) Tilings as they are.
(2) The due proportion and relation of things.”
The man whom John Bull still professes to venerate as
i (j his ideal, who looks facts in the face, and who looks at them all
Ij round, these present to us the passionate, the unutterable,
j the forth-driven life of their age. We call them seers with
exact use of language, from whom fewer secrets are hidden
than from ourselves, to whose steadfast-looking depths
reveal themselves undreamt of even by us, in the heaven and
in the earth. We call some of them artists, as creating the
form in which the results of their seeing is made known to us
jl again accurately; for though every seer is not an artist, yet
|| every true artist is by that token a seer.
as Frederick Robertson has given, as one of his definitions
j)j of poetry, that it is the indirect expression of that which
Hi cannot be expressed directly. You may apply the definition
j) to all art, for those only are truly artists who can express to
|| us through material symbol some infinite truth beyond, seeing
i'' j not only things but into things (invisible things sometimes)
of darkness as well as of light. Among such men there are
no differences of opinion; the measure of truth revealed by
j them varies from age to age, but so far as they see they see
| exactly, and their witness agrees together,
j By the grace of that Divinity who shapes our ends for us
194
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April, 25, 1S79.
as well as our means, it has been appointed that such \l
prophets or articulate seers arise in a manner quite unex- j)
plainable on the haphazard theory of the universe, in the I (
days of every great nation’s childhood, and in the days of her I /
fullest strength, and that these prophets have recorded for all ! (
future ages, as might care to read the first, her subtlest | /
intuitions, the second her matured thought. The mantle K
of the Elijahs when caught up falls on the Elishas, and the j)
apostolical succession continues, each one interpreting and \\
developing the teachings of those who have gone before.
Upon the carven and blazoned record of some artist seers ] |
concerning the great change, let me speak to you ; my read- If
ing lessons have been given me by the man whom I revere j j
as the latest of them, and where I can I shall quote his words, j)
rich, where mine are poor, and beautiful, where mine are n
rough. j]
Death ! then what is the meaning of the grim sounding ;)
word to such men, and how do they regard it ? In three | j
principal ways, as I take it, do all facts present themselves i (
to them, and always in the same order. i <
First in their eternal and innermost relations. !
Then in their human and temporal relations. | <
Then in their phenomenal or lowest relations. i1
That is briefly their method of scientific investigation, |<
though according to the class of mind of the learner, any j)
one branch of the study may be specially followed, its vital |j
connection with the others being never lost sight of.
Take as illustrations bearing upon the present subject. Of j<
the first method, this short sentence of Epictitus, the bondsman i)
and the infinitely free: “ The petrifaction of the soul is j l
double; in the one case when it is stupified in its intellect, i j
in the other when it is dead in its morals.” ft
Of the second, this loveliest of Greek elegies. \\
“Prose, thou art not dead, but hast removed to a better place, and is
dwelleth in the islands of the blessed, among abundant banquets, where i)
thouart delighted while tripping along the Elysian plains amongst soft flowers i)
far from all ills. The winter pains thee not, neither does heat or disease | j
trouble thee, nor hunger, nor thirst; nor is the life of man any longer de- ! j
sired by thee, for thou livest in the pure splendour of Olympus.” i)
Of the last, this bitter wail over physical decay:— : j j
“ But open converse there is none, |
So much the vital spirits shrink j (
To see the vacant chair—and think I i
How good! how kind! and he is gone.” i)
And this one— I \
“Where have ye laid Him ?” They said unto him, “Lord, come and j(
see.” Jesus wept. |(
But to our records! j)
Those of us who know the British Museum will well j
remember the curious papyri that hang on the staircase I
between the upper and lower Egyptian rooms. They are j
chapters from the Book of the Dead, and from them Mr. j
Newenham Hoare has given some most interesting readings
in the Dec. number of the Nineteenth Century. They repre- j <
sent that hour of death, and day of judgment, in which we i|
pray each one of us to be delivered. The soul in the human j <
form—the man—is seen entering the hall of truth, where he ] \
is to be separated from his sins ; at the entrance of the hall j <
he is received by Thoth, the God of Truth ; he is then con- i ]
ducted into the presence of forty-two assessors, the represen- j(
tatives of the laws of human duty; before each of them he j <
kneels in turn and declares the deeds done in the body. “I |<
have not stolen, I have not lied, I have fed the hungry, I j
have clothed the naked/’ Then he is placed in a scale of the | j
eternal balance, while in the other is placed the image of \)
Justice, and the God of Truth records the weight; then the |
soul is conducted into the presence of Osiris, the Divine |
Lord, and passes into the kingdom prepared for it, or into j
the purgatorial fire; at last pure, the soul becomes fully !)
identified with Osiris; through life his divine life has ever | (
been strengthened by the life above him, he has been “ go- I)
verned and lifted upand now on the heights of the Eter- j
nal Hills he is made one with Him who has given Himself i)
for him: being pure in heart, he finally sees God.
Hail! O Father Osiris ! Thou dost not corrupt, thou dost U
not turn to worms, thou dost not decay. I am! lam! I n
grow ! I grow ! I wake in peace, I am not corrupted. And ;)
why ? because I am one with the eternal life, because the I
everlasting arms are under me. Life is union with the Divine
realities, death is separation from them—then think of the
words of Christ: “ This is life eternal, to know Thee, the
only God and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent ” (and re¬
membering what life is and what death is), think that Christ
comes to judge the living and the dead, not the people with
physical bodies and the people without.
And think also that in the Hell of Dante the same sins are
punished as in purgatory; but the love of God and the fear
of Him are gone, which is the second death. So perhaps our
views of living and dying may in this Egyptian and world-
light, change somewhat, and we may begin to regard our¬
selves and our friends (our old friend John King, for in¬
stance), not only in structural and weighable relations, but
in their connection and ours with love and life, faith and
hope— those imponderable realities.
I will now bring before you another vision of death,
written at a time when the full light and life of immortality
were shining resplendent in our earth, when men seemed to
have entered so fully into the brightness of the everlasting
spring that the shadows of the earth-winter and the realities
of the earth-duties threatened to be lost sight of together ;
in the blaze of mediaeval colour and lightheartedness of medi¬
aeval simplicity; and the dwelling among the seers is more on
the peace of Divine union than on the rigour of Divine
punishment. Again we are before the judgment-seat as seen
and painted by Lochner of Cologne—the judgment-seat of the
Son of Man. On His right hand are the living, on His left
the dead; but the living side is chiefly in the heart of the
painter, and on the gorgeous jewellery and carving and colour¬
ing of the heavenly city he has dwelt with lovely joy.
Humanity again ! Look, please, at the photograph of this
after I have done, and see how entirely human the whole
picture is ; the angel and the girl who are looking into each
other’s eyes. I want some artist to copy those two heads for
me in vignette, for they are so beautiful.
The guardian angel and the guarded child meet thus and
recognise each other, never more to be separated. The outer
is reconciled to the inner—not subdued and destroyed by it,
as some would have us believe.
“ There will I ask of Christ the Lord
Thus much for him and me—
Only to live as once on earth, with love.
Only to be.
As then awhile, forever now
• Together I and he.”
A little nearer the gate of heaven (Gothic imitated from
Cologne Cathedral, but with a tall German house-roof above)
—for church and home are equally sacred—an angel is em¬
bracing heartily a girl who is entering. “We shall be real
substantial beings there,” says Lochner—lips, body (and
all), soul, and spirit, presented blameless in the day of
Jesus Christ. Quite down in the right-hand corner is
a dear little angel, teaching a boy she is leading into
heaven how to behave there. I have no more time to
describe, as I should like to, the happy side of this wonderful
record, now in the Museum at Cologne, where I have spent
many days before it. The curator asked me last time if I
had come again to look at my green devil; to whom, and to
his side of the picture, I must now turn.
At the very edge of heaven, where the flowers begin to
grow, an angel standing on the verge has put out his hand
to rescue a poor boy, who has just come out of his grave, and
who clutches hold of his dress in terrible fear and trembling ;
and no wonder, when you see who is trying to clutch hold
of him. A fearful creature truly,.with large glassy eyes,
useless for any kind of looking, with no sense in them to do
more than seize his prey, and faces, with the same cold
ghastly eyes, are repeated over every part of his body. His
colour is the grey of the dust of earth,' tinged, and only just
tinged, with the green which is the symbol of Divine life in the
heaven and in the earth, the colour of the rainbow throne,
on which the Lord of that life is seated in the centre of
picture, but vivid there, and like unto an emerald.
This monster, you will see at once, is the symbol of the
wild and fitful life of passion and desire, ungoverned by
the Divine reason; that life of the soul which is
death when left to itself, but which, under the rule of
the Spirit, is Life and Peace. But one angel hand is holding
him, and the other, uplifted, is enough without weapon to
April 25, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
195
repel such brute force as this. The angel of help is clothed
in the pure white of those who have overcome, and whose
nature has been fully harmonised in the great Hod-light.
May not some such have charge over us, if we value at all
the promise of their protection? For these days of judg¬
ment are facts, future and present, pictured for all time.
But yonder man, with the dice-boxes falling from his hands,
turned upside down, hanging from the devil’s back, what sort
of death is this ? The old law of pay for work, and no pay for
juggling, has reacted now; he has tried to turn the law
upside down, and it has turned him. This German, too,
sees that preachers of religion may be dead, double dead, and
sometimes kings and rulers too. You will find several close
to the dragon’s mouth in the lower left-hand corner, and
several near the gate of heaven in the upper right.
Two hundred years gone by! and we are again face to
face with death. No colour now, and no jewellery, and no
heaven-gate, but a field, and an old man, and the setting sun.
The earth-facts are the main-facts now, for the age is a little
older, and its eyes not bent so entirely heavenwards, therefore
Holbein has graved his prophecy instead of blazoned it, in
his strange strong series of the Dance of Death. Mark you,
the ancient faith is not lost; it has become now, not so much
a passionate aspiration after heaven and spiritual things, as
a half-sorrowful labouring on the earth, with full trust that
all will finally be well, if only we do our ploughing and
sowing faithfully.
Look at him well, this consecrated landsman, bending over
his plough, with hat worn through and crownless, and
breeches worn through and kneeless. All worked with the
minutest, most delicate care in this engraving; Holbein has
evidently had more heart in it than in any of the others.
And this old man, “ labourer on the earth/’ is almost the only
person in the whole series to whom the messenger the Angel
of Death comes peacefully. Such an angel too ! None of
your wings and white robes, but something quite anatomical
and materialistic instead. As I said just now, the heaven-
glow was becoming dimmer, and so the Angel of Death to
Germany in 1530 is a skeleton—but in this case quite a life¬
ful, brotherly skeleton, who leads the old man’s horses for
him up hill, making a straight furrow. He has been
honest and earnest, not a cumberer but a tiller of the
ground. With his best strength he has laboured to be
faithful over his few things, but now that strength has
failed him, and the old home is broken up, brother Death has
come to help him finish his last day’s work, and to lead him
into the land that lies beyond the brightness of that sun, who
is going down also, behind the cross-crowned spire of the
village church, where such ploughmen as he shall find in
fuller labour an ever-increasing rest.
This familiar hob-nobbing with grim death is characteristic
of Germany in this great, clear-thinking engraving time.
Presently she will discover that the skeleton messenger is
only a bag of bones put together after all, incapable of leading
anywhere, and when she discovers that, her art-prophecy will
cease, and she will enter before long into the service of the
“ spirit who denies.”
One more record from another land! from a little city that
has striven to keep her inner eyes steadfastly looking up to
heaven, and her human eyes resolutely round on earth in
reverence and injustice, and who has therefore produced a
prophet who can speak to us in mediaeval passion of colour,
and in Greek and modern German exactitude of light and
shade—I speak of Venice and of Carpaccio. His method of
dealing with the subject of Death, I shall endeavour to make
clear to you from two of his pictures—the one, the visit of the
Death Angel to a King’s daughter; the other, of the life in
heaven of the first translator of the Bible, St. Jerome.
Here is Mr. Buskin’s account of the vision of St. Ursula.
He comes to her in the clear light of morning
The Angel of Death. ...
There is no glory round his head; there is no gold on his robes; they
are subdued purple and grey; his wings are colourless, his face calm, but
sorrowful. Wholly in shade in his right hand he bears the martyr’s palm, in
his left the fillet borne by the Greek angels of victory, and together with it,
knotted in his hand, the folds of shroud with which the Etrurians veil the
tomb.
You see it is written in the legend that she had shut close the doors of
her chamber.
They have opened as the angel enters. Not one only, but all in the room.
I! all in the house. He enters by one at the foot of her bed; but beyond it
| is another-—open into the passage; out of that another into some luminous
| bailor street. All the window-shutters are wide open; they are made dark
I that you may notice them; nay, all the press doors are open: no treasure
; bars shall hold where this angel enters.
I Carpaccio has been intent to mark that he comes in the light of dawn,
i j The blue-green sky glows between the dark leaves of the olive and dian-
/ ] thus in the open window. But its light is low compared to that which
) | enters behind the angel, falling full on Ursula’s face, in divine rest,
f | In the last picture but one of this story, he has painted her lying in the
(| rest which the angel came to bring; and in the last is her rising in the
) | eternal morning.
) i On the tassel of her pillow (Etrurian also) is written “Infantia,” and above
) j her head, the carving of the bed ends in a spiral flame, typical of the
l i finally ascending spirit.
\ j For this is the first lesson which Carpaccio wrote in his Venetian words
j I for the creatures of this restless world—that death is better than their life ;
(| and that not bridegroom rejoices over bride as they rejoice who marry not,
(i nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven.
) | In the little “ church of the slaves ” in his native city,
11 Carpaccio has painted a series of pictures representing the
)\ life of St. Jerome. In one of them he is seen translating the
J | Bible, his faithful dog by his side ; then comes his death
) j and burial, and then his work in the risen life. Again poring
11 over the Word of God in the same room as before, but from
) | the altar the cross is removed and replaced by a banner of
\ \ resurrection. The candlesticks are removed—“ they need no
) i candle ”—and under the altar are put away the censer and the
{\ paraphernalia of church worship, while near his feet (that
]) | we may make no mistake) are Testaments with broken seals—
m no use now ! Through the bars of the window streams the
|) | sun, shining on him, not the full blaze of heaven yet, but
i | j brighter than on earth. Mr. Ruskin’s comment is Rosetti’s
m verse :
I (| “ Through his body’s prison bars
i 11 His soul possessed the sun and stars.”
jji He still wears over his dress the brown cape, typical of
|) | connection with earth, and by his side lies his well-beloved
| j i friend and companion. Animals also in the risen life and
m the future life ? “Yes,” says Carpaccio.
|y| I crave your patience for but a few minutes more. Have I
j/j made in any way plain what I desired to show you, that
|\| reverent attention to the true thought of the past is our
i) | surest guide as to our own subjects of thought, and our method
m of thinking of them ? Their thought deals always with
i) | things important to our present life. Their science is not of
| j I the size of the sun, or its chemical analysis, but of its shining
I)! as affecting human health and human hope. They tell us that
| \ i the things vitally important for us to know are the love of the
j)| Father and His laws, His laws concerning our own being,
i (i our human bodies and human spirits, o ur human life and human
| /1 death. His laws concerning our earth and its tillage, and the
I'i rendering perfect in it of beautiful and gentle lower life,
j/i When we have learnt these we may or may not learn the
| (I modes of the moon.* Probably we shall have no time for it,
j)| and it doesn’t matter. So then I have tried to look with the
| (| seers at this great fact of death. You see how all knowledge on
j)j such a subject is prized by them, and how it is considered in
\(\ its due relations; and I have strong ground to go upon
!/: when I say that it seems to me the duty of every true
m man to gain whatever knowledge he can on this- vitally
j/j important subject, and to arrange [the various branches of
j\j knowledge so ascertained in their due order. For this
j) j reason I feel no hesitation in saying that it seems to me the
j (I duty of every true man to inquire into these strange pheno-
j) j mena of Modern Spiritualism—every man who stands fast in
j {j full faith in the goodness of the Heavenly Father, and who can-
| / j not believe any law of his to be wrong, and who cannot be
j (\ swerved from his sacred knowledge of the difference between
i /! good and evil at the beck of any Spirit in the body or out of it:
i j!; and equally the duty of every man who honestly believes that
| / j neither God nor Moral Law have any real existence. Surely
I) j it is needful this “ science of the soulsurely it is important,
j/j if true. Shall we not be better men for knowing rationally
j\j what the nature of our existence shall be on the other side
j) i of the grave and gate of death, though we know also that
I (\ existence is not life, and decay is not death. They tell me I
Ij do not trust God when I ask such knowledge; and do so, when
j going to America I ask for a guide book ? The idea is
j ludicrous. • - -
! * I know nothing about such things myself, and shall never probably care
i to learn.
196
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 25, 1879.
I have never made “ Spiritualism ” my religion; I never ! J
shall. It cannot reveal the inner truth to me, which my own j j
divine spirit must grasp; but it has made plain to me j
that I am to exist after physical decay as a man, not as a gas, j)
or an aspiration, or a sentiment. It has shown me and has |
made me understand my relation to that world and its in- j |
habitants, and for that knowledge I am very thankful. | j
Let me plead with you for study of this great fact in all ] |
its relations, which this “ science of the soul ” will help you I /
better to understand; God has given us a clearer insight into | j
the outer facts of the future life. Shall we refuse that know- |;
ledge, or deem it unnecessary, because we prefer to look at |)
physical facts alone, or at spiritual ones ? Knowledge is being ! (
increased. Let us strive with our best strength to make it i)
righteous, and not partial knowledge. | (
I ask you to help, and I ask those friends to whom the better |)
cause is pleasing, on the other side of the narrow stream, also, | (
to help and be near us:— . |
“ Be near ns when we climb or fall, '*?§& j|
j Ye watch like God the rolling hours, j
With larger, other eyes than ours, f • j i
To make allowance for us all.” !{
AN AFFIDAVIT ABOUT HENRY SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP. i
The following is printed in an advertisement, more than a K
column long, in The Melbourne Argus, of February 18fch
last:— j)
In the first place I must preface what I have to say with j(
the remark, that had you gone through Sydney you would j)
hardly have found a greater sceptic than myself, but at the j(
same time I must also state that I did not sit calmly down and j)
laugh at Spiritualism as a jugglery, humbug, and imposture.” jv
No! I, like many others, wanted to see and hear the argu- \)
ments of the other side, and took every opportunity of so j(
doing. I heard Mrs. Britten, and admired her lecture im- |)
mensely. I listened with wonder and awe, not unmixed with | (
reverence, to the words she spoke, but still that did not con- j)
vince me. I wanted a manifestation, something real, some- j(
thing tangible, and i got it. I)
Of all the phenomena connected with Spiritualism, I think j (
that of “ slate-writing ” is the most wonderful; and though j)
people are apt to slur it over, and do not attach much im- K
portance to it, still what can be more wonderful or more con- j /
vincing, to what is fast becoming an acknowledged fact, than I (
written messages from those we’ve “ loved and lost,” making j ?
one feel that they are “ not dead but only gone before.” j (
Now, before T proceed with the details of my experience, I | /
must state that wherever I have used names in full I have ! (
permission to do so, and the parties are well known in !/
Sydney, and with this explanation further proof of my words j (
may be obtained, if necessary; and I hope that your readers j /
will pardon the rather frequent use of the letter “ I,” but j \
being a personal narrative it is difficult to cut it out. j /
Last Saturday fortnight I was proceeding along York- j \
street, Sydney, and in passing Dr. Slade’s house, I was sud- | /
denly taken with the idea to go up and see him. There was j (
no previous intention of my doing so, as, five minutes before, j)
he had not been in my mind. I had never met him, and was, j s
in fact, a perfect stranger to him. I reached his room, and j)
found him alone, with the window open and the blind drawn 11
up. 1 did not introduce myself, but only asked for an ap- j /
pointment the following week, which was granted for Wed- ||
nesday afternoon. I was turning to go away, when I thought | /
I might have one “all to myself,” and this he readily acceded i \
to, saying, “ Possibly you might get more personal messages j)
alone.” We closed the door, and I examined the table. It m
was a very plain deal, with a white edge, had four legs, was j ? j
steady and strong, and had no apparatus concealed in any s
part of it. It was not hollow, as I have heard suggested, for j H
I tapped it and sounded it thoroughly. We then joined m
hands oh top of it, the window being still open (it was a m
calm clear day) ; immediately raps were heard, as if in the j (I
wood, dull, heavy thuds. Then the doctor said, “ Tap like j / i
this,” producing a sharp sound with his nail, and it was 11 j
imitated at once. He then asked, “ Will you write ? ” and j | j
was answered by three raps, decisive and loud. “Are you |||
ready f ” three raps again; this meant “ Yes,” :, i
All this time Dr. Slade was sitting sideways to the table,
with his feet and legs well away from it, and in full view.
After the answer last given, he turned round and picked a
slate off a side table, cleaned it with a sponge, and placed a
chip of pencil on it, and held it under the ledge ; clamped it
there, in fact, by placing his thumb on top of the table.
He then put his left hand on my two, and at once we heard
writing on the slate. Now, I just wish here to reiterate the
fact that the doctor and I were perfect strangers, and that he
knew nothing about me and my affairs I am most positive.
Three taps announced the completion of the message, and
with some difficulty he slid the slate from the table (it seemed
to be almost glued there) and handed it to me.
The slate contained a message from my wife (now dead
eight months) congratulating me on having come to the
medium, and using terms and words—“ passwords,” I should
more properly call them—familiar to us both during her life.
The writing on this first message was not like hers at all, with
the exception of the signature, and that, instead of being her
Christian name Jessie, was signed as we more often called her
“ Sissie,” and in a similar way to that on her letters addressed
to me. I received a second message from her referring to her
two children, the existence of whom Dr. Slade knew not.
Dr. Slade then asked if any other spirits were present, and
this time held the slate downwards on top of the table, with
the pencil confined to the intervening space. Immediately
there was written a large “ W. H.” I disowned any know¬
ledge of the initials, and though I tried to think of some one
answering to them, still I could not. “ Never mind,” said the
doctor ; “ we will ask who it is ? ” and putting the slate down
again he said, “ Will the spirit please give full name ? ” Then
we heard the writing again, and then the taps signifying the
conclusion. He turned the slate over, and there written in
quite a different hand to the first message were the words,
“ I am your uncle, William Haviland.” Had I a doubt this
must have removed it; there was no mind reading, clair¬
voyance, or will force here. In the first place, my wife did
not give the surname, and in the next the doctor did not
know it, and still this was a truth. William Haviland, my
father’s brother, was shot in the gold escort in New South
Wales, how many years ago I almost forget. I should think
about eighteen or twenty, and when I was a child, therefore I
looked on that message as a marvellous test.
Now, I went home and told Mrs. Robson (my mother-in-
law) all this, and she, who was, like I had been, a disbeliever,
wondered at it greatly, and finally said, “ I’m going into
town on Monday; will you come with me and see him ? ” Of
course I would, and I told her that sometimes spirits tied
knots in ladies’ handkerchiefs, as I had been informed, and so
she had better take an extra one.
On Monday morning we went at 11 o’clock, Mrs. Robson
taking with her a handkerchief. We entered the room and I
made no introduction, simply saying, “ That this lady wanted
to sit with me.” This time we shut the door, and, as before,
left the window up, Mrs. Robson sitting down with the loose
handkerchief on her lap on one side. Dr. Slade ' sitting side¬
ways, as before, and myself opposite him. We joined hands
on top of the table, and at once strong raps announced the
presence of the spirit. I was touched on the knee and on the
side. Mrs. Robson’s chair was twisted round, she in it, and
her bonnet strings and ribbons were visibly pulled and untied;
and all this in broad daylight, and not, as many suppose, in
darkness. Dr. Slade then took a slate, and after holding it a
minute he said, “Oh, it’s gone,” and immediately it appeared
on edge at the opposite side of the table, out of reach of any
one but myself. “ Bring it back to [me,” said he, and the
slate disappeared again, and reached his hand, never once
touching the floor. “ I think,” said the doctor to Mrs. Rob¬
son, “ that the spirit wants you to hold the slate yourself.”
She took it from him. He put his two hands on the top of the
table with ours, and Mrs. Robson held the slate alone just
under the table in front of her. Writing was distinctly heard
and soon it stopped, and we took the slate from her to read
the message. It proved to be from her daughter (my wife),
and was addressed, “ My darling mother and husband ; ” it
then went on to speak about private affairs, of her father who
was present with her, of her children, and how happy she
was, &c. I kept on watching Mrs. Robson’s handkerchief,
which lay still untouched in her lap, and we both had several
April 25, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
197
touches, as if a hand had been laid on our knees. At one time
there was written on the slate, “ My dear husband, it was I
touched you,—Jessie.” For one instant I had my hands off
the handkerchief, and when I looked again it was rolled up
tight and knotted in two curious and small knots, one in each
end. Dr. Slade seemed as much astonished as we were, and
holding the slate face downwards on the table asked, “ Who
tied the handkerchief?” and the answer came, “Father.”
This was splendidly written, and was so like my wife’s hand¬
writing that we could not doubt its truth, but what followed
was the most singular part of this apparently trifling knot.
“ Why,” said Mrs. Robson in an almost bewildered state of
astonishment, “ that is most strange. Do you know,” said she,
“ my husband, Captain Robson, when he was alive, used to
tie knots identical with these in every way ; he used to
snatch my handkerchief out of my pocket and tie them just
like this.” Now what can sceptics say to this ? I give it
up. I have that handkerchief at home, and have shown it to
dozens of people.
The next fact I come to, taking them seriatim, occurred on
the following Wednesday (the appointed day), when I visited
the doctor in company with two gentlemen, one a well-known
Sydney engineer (Mr. T. S. Parrott). We took a folding
book slate with us, and obtained messages inside it, the slate
being held on top of the table. We had also other manifesta¬
tions of the presence and power of the spirits; but in this
article I only wish to mention in as few words as possible
what struck me as the most wonderful and most convincing
proof of Dr. Slade’s truthfulness, and further to impress on
your readers the fact that they may all go and see these
things themselves, and it is for this purpose that I seek publi¬
cation of my statement in a paper where it will be read by
thousands and tens of thousands; for this will not only be
published in Melbourne, but every journal throughout
England and America that is essentially an organ of the
people will place before its readers my experiences, which, as
far as in me lies, I have put past doubt, by taking my oath
before God and the world, are true.
But to pass on to the next interesting experiment. A
gentleman in Sydney called on Dr. Slade, and took with him
a compass. Placing it on the table, he requested the doctor
to put his hand on it, but contrary to his expectations, the
needle moved not. They then joined hands, and the doctor,
putting one hand to the needle, covering his visitor’s hands
with his other one, was astonished himself to see the needle
deflected more than 60 degrees. The day following I was up
again to see him, and he told me of this, bearing out exactly
what my friend the scientist had said, and turning round to
his side table he took a small compass from it, and placing it
between us, joined hands with me and said, “ This is the way
we did it,” but to his surprise the needle did not move.
“ Why,” said he, “ that is curious; it moved yesterday, but
perhaps the spirits want you to do it.” I disengaged one
hand from his, and held it towards the needle, and it immedi¬
ately followed my finger whichever side I put it. He then
pushed the compass far from us, to the extreme edge of the
table, and we sat away, but in full view of it. “ Now,” said
Dr. Slade, “ will the spirits please revolve the needle, if we
wish it ? ” Three raps answered him, and the needle, with no
one near it, turned round several times. Perhaps scientific
men will explain this ; but before they attempt it, let them
take their own compasses, and the doctor will, I doubt not, be
only too happy to convince them. There is only one thing
for them to bear in mind, and that is, act in a courteous and
gentlemanly manner when you go, and not, as some have done,
and by so doing disgraced themselves, treated him as a
swindling rascal, and a rogue of the deepest dye.
Outsiders (those who have not seen Dr. Slade, and look on
Spiritualism as thorough trash and nonsense) are apt to judge
rashly, and many speak in a mysterious “ stage-aside ” voice
of wires, electric batteries, will power, ethic, psychic, and good¬
ness knows how many other forces, and further still, if one
mentions Dr. Slade in their hearing, they immediately answer
significantly, Professor Baldwin, Maskylene, Cooke, and I
forget how many other conjurers. But all I ask in simple
fairness is that before they speak of what they have not seen
and do not know—in fact, before they make fools of them¬
selves—let them see Dr. Slade, and I’ll guarantee that neither
Baldwin nor any of the others can produce writing on a lock-
I! up book-slate under the same conditions that Dr. Slade has
j done, and prove, as they profess to do, that it is not spirit
agency and power that is at work.
Dr. Slade has been to my private house, and on my own
| table, with a common school slate, and in the presence of my
friends, received written messages of love and happiness from
relatives that he could not possibly have known of in any
way, and I make this statement partly in justice to him, but
i 1 more so that others may share in some of the blessings await-
) I ing them. Perchance they may not get personal messages,
(| and will then be disappointed. Let them take heart and try
/| by themselves in their own family circle—try with planchette,
(j or some other means, that I, among many, have too long
)j looked upon as toys and trifling objects, and then their eyes
!' I will be opened, as, I thank God, mine have been.
In closing this article, I wish to state that it is by no means
| a complete list of all I have witnessed, but only a selection of
what I considered the most remarkable and wonderful tests
in my experience. Others, no doubt, have seen better, and
| they should in justice give them to the world. I shall write
i further details of this great blessing for the Banner of
Light, who, having the cause at heart, I know are only too
j happy to publish such experiences, if people would only send
I them.
j! There is another thing that is very curious with regard to
(| Dr. Slade’s mediumship, and that is, that it does not signify
ji whether he be in Russia, China, Fiji, or any other foreign
(i country, the messages written on the slate are, with few ex-
; | ceptions, in the language of the people so addressed.
(| Since writing the above, I have read Dr. Knaggs’ paper in
;i the Sydney Herald of the 14th instant, and he certainly
yj proves that he is “ wise in his own conceit.” As for his ex-
(| planations, any sensible man will at once see their stupidity,
\; and I can only wonder at his putting his name to such non-
| sense. Just let him try to raise a table like Dr. Slade’s by
)! “grasping one leg between his legs and knees, and burying
/; the edge in his abdomen.” Let him practise it for the next
(I ten years, and he won’t do it. Dr. Slade, I positively assert,
(| does not touch the table at all except with his hands; but
Ii perhaps Dr. Knaggs can easily explain “ how he (Slade) raised
| a lady of 9 st., chair and all, from the floor, simply by placing
| his hand on her chair back.”
E. C. Haviland.
I, Edwin Cyril Haviland, of Sydney, New South Wales, do
(I solemnly and sincerely declare, that the phenomena and oc-
)j currences as stated in my paper, “Spiritualistic Facts, or
\ j Scepticism Bewildered,” are true, and took place in every par-
>| tictdar as I have therein set forth, and that Dr. Slade used
(| no apparatus to produce them, and that I carefully examined
; | the table and slates used. And I make this solemn declara-
(j tion, conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
j j virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria
(j rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for
)j wilful and corrupt perjury.
|| , E. C. Haviland.
Declared at Melbourne, in the colony of Victoria, this
(j seventeenth day of February, one thousand eight hundred
) | and seventy-nine, before me, Henry Penheth Fergie, notary
(i public, also a commissioner for taking affidavits, &c., in the
(j Supreme Court of the colony of New South Wales, in Mel-
{\ bourne, in the colony of Victoria.
I Cotresponnence*
)! lOreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
\ j opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be
(| relumed; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are
) j not anonymous.!  —
\'\ T)R. MONCK.
ii Sir,—It may interest the friends of Dr. Monck to know that after four
months’ residence with me, he left Naples on the 24th of March for Home.
I Since then I have not heard from him, but I hope soori to have favourable
4 tidings of his health. > G. Damiani.
Naples, 12th April, 1879.
Ij The Spirituahstic movement might be greatly aided by the general adoption
of the plan which Mrs. Makdougall Gregory has inaugurated, of holding
! drawing-room meetings for the consideration of the strength of the evidence
in favour of life eternal. Mr. Campbell’s paper is a gem of spiritual litera-
l ture, which, like all truly beautiful utterances, will bear reading and re¬
reading.
198
THE t SPIRITUALIST,
April 25, 1879.
EVENINGS WITH THE INDWELLERS OF THE
SPIRIT WORLD.
BY FBEDEBICK HOCKLEY.
The late Earl Stanhope (grandfather of the present earl)
having, in July, 1852, informed me that the Honourable
Captain H. A. Murray, to whom he had given a card of
recommendation to me, was extremely curious about crystals,
and that, accompanied by his friend Lieutenant R. F. Burton,
who had travelled much in India, and studied Occult Sciences,
he intended to visit me at Croydon. Shortly afterwards, I
had the honour of making their acquaintance. Mr. Burton
was then contemplating his pilgrimage to Medinah and
Mecca. At this time (February, 1853), I, at the suggestion
of my spirit guides, was changing both my process of work¬
ing and my spirit acquaintances. As Mr. Burton was de¬
sirous of taking with him a crystal and mirror, and I was on
the point of using new ones, I had the pleasure of giving my
small oval mounted crystal, which I had used for the pre¬
vious sixteen years, and dedicating it afresh to a guide
appointed for Mr. Burton. I also prepared for him a black
mirror.
Lieut. Burton left London on the evening of April, 1853,
and, arriving at Alexandria, he appeared as an Indian
doctor:—
“It is not to be supposed that the people of Alexandria
could look upon my phials and pill boxes without a yearning
for their contents. An Indian doctor, too, was a novelty to
them ! Franks they despised, but a man who had come so far
West! Then there was something ifinitely seducing in
the character of a magician, doctor, and fakir, each admirable
of itself, thus combined to make * great medicine.* Men,
women, and children besieged my door; even respectable
natives, after witnessing a performance of Mandal and the
Magic Mirror, opined that the stranger was a holy man,
gifted with supernatural powers, and knowing everything.
But the reader must not be led to suppose that I acted
‘ Carabin ’ or ‘ Sangrado ’ without any knowledge of my
trade. From youth I have always been a dabbler in medical
and mystical study.”—Pilgrimage, vol. i., p. 17.
After Mr. Burton’s departure we were naturally anxious to
hearof his welfare, and beingoften assured byour spirit friend of
his safety, I did not call him into the mirror until Christmas,
1873, when I requested that we might have a vision in the
“ Evam glass,’* a curiously-shaped mirror made from instruc¬
tions from a spirit friend for seeing visions past and present.
December 17th, 9.30 p.m. Called R. F. Burton.
Emma inspected, and said:—
“How its light; I see some sand: all sand. Now I see
some camels—one is lying down, the other two standing up;
there’s a black boy with a tremendously rough wig ; he looks
like a negro lying down. There’s a tall, dark man, with a
black beard and moustache, and no hair; he’s quite clean-
shaved ; he looks so funny ! He’s got some sort of a white
dress and trousers on, and something round his waist, loosely
tied at his side, and something like a knife, but no sheath,
stuck in something coming from the girdle; it hangs from
the girdle; he looks quite white against the black boy ;
he /ms got a head of hair, there’s no mistake about that.
It’s getting plain. There’s sand coming behind them, and a
clump of trees more like dried thyme. There are tents.
They are very low, not peaked; they look as though you i i
would be obliged to creep into the tree, if it is a tree; it ; (
looks more like a bunch of dried thyme sticking up above the I (
tent. 11
“ Now there are two or three men dressed like the other, |)
who are lying down flat on their faces. There’s one smoking; |)
he is standing up. None of them have any hair; the one h
standing up is dressed in a yellow and white striped dress, | ^
and rather a greyish blue round the bottom ; they are comical- : ■
looking little figures. Now there’s one gone up to the first.
I don’t think he is Mr. Burton though ; he has such black
hair and eyes. The other is a nasty-looking old man; his
beard is grey. He does show his teeth so ; he is all action;
he looks like a monkey going to eat him; it is Mr. Burton.
The old man keeps on spitting; he looks so spiteful. Mr.
Burton only smiles.
“Now the boy has jumped up. I don’t know hardly what
shape he is. I never saw such a droll boy; he looks almost
)j a dwarf. The one that is smoking would be good-looking if
(j he had some hair. The black boy has gone up to him and
)j laid hold of his pipe, and taken it out of his mouth. Now
(i they seem quarrelling; there are two or three more round
I them.
“Now there’s such a beautiful horse come up, and a man
with a turban by the side of it; he is the only one with a
turban on. They all seem quarrelling. The old man seems
exactly as if he was going to eat the other ; he has a grey
I beard and moustache, and wide mouth, but such white teeth
for an old man.
“ Now it’s going—it is all gone. 9.50 p.m.”
Mr. Burton called upon me again the 5th July, 1861, and
I showed him the entry as above in my MS. minutes, which he
read through, and on the opposite page gave his attestation :
“ I quite recognise the correctness of this vision—the old grey
man, the boy, and the quarrel about the pipe. This is easily
l\ ascertained by a reference to the ‘ Pilgrimage’ ”—Richard F.
(i Burton.
jj Here is the statement in Captain Burton’s book :—
j j “ The plain was already dotted with tents and lights. We
\ | found the Baghdad caravan; it consists of a few Persians
\j and Kurds, and collects the people of North-eastern Arabia—
(| Wahhabis and others—though not amounting to more than
\j two thousand in numbers, men, women, and children. They
)! had been passing to the Damascus caravan, and being perfectly
vj ready to fight, they were not going to yield any point of
); prudence. From that time the two bodies encamped in
(I different places. I never saw a more pugnacious assembly;
\\ a look sufficed for a quarrel. Once a Wahhabi stood in front
(; of us, and by pointing with his finger, and other insulting
)\ gestures, showed his hatred to the chibouque in which I was
)j peaceably indulging. It was impossible to refrain from
(i chastising his insolence—by a polite and smiling offer of the
) i offending pipe. This made him draw his dagger without a
|! thought; but it was sheathed again, for we all cocked our
)! pistols, and these gentry greatly prefer steel to lead.”—
a Pilgrimage to El-Medinah and Mecca. Vol. iii., p. 108.
>\ Published 1856.  
EXOTERIC OBSERVATIONS OE SPIRITUALISM.*
U BY THE BEV. W. MIALL.
It is a very stale device to anticipate or endeavour to disarm
y\ criticism by expressing dissatisfaction with the subject under
discussion, or by taking exception to the terms in which it
i has been announced. “Exoteric Observation” having been
l \ chosen by myself as the title of this paper, to complain of it
)! would seem unreasonable. I may state, however, that it was
b coupled hastily, and was suggested by the frequent appro-
\\ priation by Spiritualists of its correlative term. The objec-
)\ tions to it which reflection originates are—first, that it is
)| somewhat pretensive, throwing an air of the philosophical
about an address which certainly will not rise above the
ordinary and practical; secondly, that it would seem to
define my own position more clearly than I am accustomed
to regard it as capable of being defined; and thirdly, that
it seems to imply With respect to pronounced Spiritualists,
that they claim to possess certain secrets sacred to the more
or less formally initiated—a representation of at least ques¬
tionable accuracy.
I will take the liberty of relieving myself of some of the
difficulties of my own creation, by dismissing the learned-
looking cojective, and describing what I have to say as
“ Observation from the frontier line of Spiritualism.”
Whether the speaker is to be regarded as within the line,
or without it, or astride it—being in the uncomfortable
position of the angel in the Apocalypse, “ One foot on the
earth and the other on the sea,” I must leave it to my audience
to determine.
To the unsatisfactoriness of my position there is at any rate
this counterweight. It enables me to play the part of Janus
—to overlook the country within the bounderies of
Spiritualism, and the more extensive one without them; it is
a favourable post for observation alike of Spiritualists, of
semi-Spiritualists, of non-Spiritualists, and of anti-Spiritualists.
}\ My simple object will be to describe what appears to me to
( j * A paper read last Monday night before the National Association of
(! Spiritualists,
April 25, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
199
be the noteworthy features of the positions and arguments
of some of these. In doing so the only qualities for which I
desire credit are sincerity, the fullest candour of which I am
capable, and a kindly sentiment towards all true-hearted
Spiritualists.
I propose, in the first place, to describe some of the circum¬
stances in connection with Spiritualism which seem to me
both to justify and to demand respectful attention, and
painstaking and patient investigation. Among these circum¬
stances is the alleged accessibleness of the alleged phenomena.
We are told that they occur not only in distant lands, but
here in England, in London, in the next street, in the houses
of our friends. The presence of some person rendered with
qualities constitutional and temperamental, which are at any
rate not possessed by everybody, is indeed essential to their
occurrences, but then a large proportion of human beings are
said to be thus endowed ; so that at any time we may witness
the phenomena and subject them to whatever scrutiny
we choose. Without much cost of either trouble or money,
we may for ourselves see what is to be seen, hear what is to
be heard, and examine whatever evidence is wont to be
adduced, and subject that evidence to whatever sifting or
testing process our sagacity may suggest.
If believers in the occurrence of these phenomena were
uniformly ignorant and credulous persons, and the abnormally
endowed “ mediums ” were in all cases persons of doubtful
credit, it would, as I think, be incumbent on wise and phi¬
lanthropic individuals to endeavour to ascertain for them¬
selves, and to publish to the world, what is the true explana¬
tion of this widespread and extraordinary belief. But so
far from mediums being all dishonest, they are in many
instances persons of the most undoubted probity, the
cherished members of families whose character is above sus¬
picion, and who make themselves responsible for the correct¬
ness of the representations furnished. And instead of
believers in the phenomena being always ignorant and
credulous, they are in very many instances persons which
nothing short of the grossest ignorance, and that pitiable
credulity, or at all events of the most invincible prejudice,
could lead any one so to regard. The superiority in respect
of ability and high character of many of the more prominent
supporters of Spiritualism, is therefore another circumstance
making examination of the subject imperative.
A third may be found in the accord of the alleged
phenomena with those associated historically with the rise
of the foremost of the great religions of the world. Whether
or not the professors of the Christian faith regard their own
sacred Scriptures as the faithful records of undoubtable facts,
there can be no doubt as to the similarity of those current
circumstances, belief in which is peculiar to Spiritualists, and
those which New Testament writers affirm to have been
frequent in the earliest times of Christianity. It is difficult
to imagine a book more fraught than is the New Testament
with the record of events kindred to, if not in their nature
identical with, those which Spiritualists ask the present
generation to believe are of perpetual occurrence among our¬
selves. If Hr. A. devoutly believes all that is attributed to
the authorship of evangelists and apostles, he of course, in
the first place, admits the possibility of the abnormal, or as
he would probably describe it supernatural. I submit that,
in the next place, he is bound by fidelity to his principles to
take note of the alleged facts of Spiritualism, in order that,
if perchance they may be true, he may avail himself of the
confirmation of his faith which they supply, or that being
proved false, he may do the world and his religion the great
service of exposing and denouncing the wretched travesty in
which they consist. But Mr. B. is a Christian in the sense
of believing that the religion which Jesus taught presents us,
as no other religion does, with principles of eternal truth,
the recognition of which is of the very highest importance to
humanity ; but he also maintains that no evidence hitherto
available is sufficient to warrant confidence in the infallible
truth and literal accuracy of the writings constituting the
canon of the New Testament. I submit that he, too, as a true
man, is bound to examine into the veritableness and value of
circumstances said to be transpiring all around him, and
which assertion, if proved to be true, will supply him with a
sufficient reason for investing the New Testament writings
with a stronger claim upon credence than he has hitherto
!i awarded them; or, if false, will, without diminishing his
veneration for Christian truth, do something towards justify-
| ing his scepticism with regard to the historical details with
| which its original proclamation is identified.
IOne further circumstance powerfully suggestive of the
| same course, is found in the very remarkable adaptation of
the facts and doctrines of Spiritualism to meet the require¬
ments of the times, growing out of the nature and results of
| modern thought. The perpetually repeated procession of the
superior from the inferior, and the apparent indestructibility of
all natural forces, are among the facts which the most eminent
of the instructors of the present day affirm and emphasize.
It is obvious that Spiritualism being true, it is in perfect
> | harmony with, and in fact an endorsement of such teaching,
(j There are, however, other and less satisfactory deliverances
) | by which the philosophy of the present day is characterised,
j! “ The material is the real—the thing which is, and its Creator
>| —there being in creation, or beyond it, nothing superior to
111 those natural forces which, however subtile, are yet mate¬
rial.” Such is either the avowed belief or the unacknow¬
ledged, perhaps unperceived implication of the belief of
many minds. How revolutionary in its effect upon all that
has proved most elevating and ennobling, most consolatory
and gladdening, it is unspeakably painful to realise. Other
utterances there are, scarcely if at all less calculated to rob
the sun of its brightness, existence of its chief charm. An
j; endless succession of cause and effect, occurring everywhere
)\ and comprehending all that is, human life and destiny no
(j less certainly than the history of the meanest of material
>! objects—this is all which man by searching can possibly
(j discover. All that is asserted to lie beyond—an existence
/1 superior to the human—a cause superior to the causes with
(\ the operation of which we are all familiar—an Intelligence,
)j the originating source of all things—aught in any respect
(j different from or superior to that of which our senses testify
/1 —this all is an empty dream, unverifiable, and therefore
unreasonable. About the drapery in which facts array
/| themselves, we may know, or think we know, or think that
! we think we know a very little—about the facts them-
[i selves, we know and can know nothing—about the origin
Ji of those facts, nothing. In truth, know-nothingism is our
)j creed, and to every proposal to seek after instruction we
(i say simply, “The thing is impossible.” How like a pall
ji on the form of some dear one fall such utterances, on the
ji aspiring, hoping, trusting, loving spirit of intelligent and
j i Christian men! To be sure, here, as everywhere, we must
ji be on our guard against arguing from consequences—con-
(j eluding that because the results of a position are painful that
j j it is therefore untenable. To discover naked truth should be our
j i highest ambition, and to assert what seems to us to be such
j i truth, even when its aspect is most forbidding, should be the habit
j i of our lives. But now understanding by Spiritualism simply
j I an assertion of the continued existence of the so-called dead,
(i and of the possibility of holding communication with them,
j | whilst it cannot be said to disprove the doctrines of either
! Materialism or of Agnosticism, it certainly and enormously
> \ increases the data, acquaintance with which is essential either
j | to their intelligent maintenance or to their intelligent
ji denial. From these considerations it follows, that one who
(j desiderates fuller evidence before he can feel justified in
} i writing himself “ Spiritualist,” may yet perceive in Spiritual-
j j ism that which compels his respect, and demands his further
!| investigation.
To say that this Spiritualism has had, and still has, to
make its way amidst much opposition, is only to say that it
is subject to a law which is observed universally in relation
to all things. Only by struggle, by hard-won conquest, can
growth be attained, whether it be the growth of a deadly upas,
| or of a tree of life whose leaves are for the healing of the
I \ nations.
I propose now to look out upon the objectors to Spiritual-
jl ism and to take note of some of the objections which they
j; express. I at once observe that there are those, and they are
ji very numerous, who from ignorance or extremely limited
j I and partial knowledge, or from the evidence which they supply
j | of being hopelessly and on all matters under the dominion
{| of prejudice, are incompetent to the entertainment of an
j! intelligent opinion on the subject. This incompetency of
'1 theirs, indeed, all unsuspected as it is by themselves, extends
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 25, 1879.
not to Spiritualism only or especially, but to any of the thou¬
sand and one subjects, about which they are generally among j.
the foremost to show conviction and pronounce judgment. If j |
it is true, as our literary Nestor affirms, that the millions of |!
men constituting the human family are “mostly fools,” it I]
need not surprise us to find that many should prove their j <
title to that name by rushing in here, where possibly angels j j
fear to tread. Certainly, a very large proportion of the j
remarks about Spiritualism which one hears in general jj
society, make it obvious that the speakers know very little 11
about the subject, that they are strongly prejudiced against i j
it; that, therefore they are indisposed with due patience ! i
to examine it; and that they never use the wisdom to hide ! ]
these facts from view by the exercise of a becoming reti- j<
cenoe. j ]
The wholesale attribution to Spiritualists of childish ere- 11
dulity, and much more that of mendacity, and of a desire to IJ
delude their fellow-men, at once places the objector without j i
the pale of opponents, to whom it is consistent with self- j j
respect to make reply. There are, to be sure, many circum- j <
stances which an impartial observer or even a “friendly jj
eye ” cannot fail to perceive with dissatisfaction, and, in some i <
cases, even with disgust. No doubt many who profess
themselves Spiritualists are persons whose habit of mind is |j
such as to invite the plastic handling of any adept in the art j)
of operating on the gullibility of his fellows. Unhappily, the j (
demand creates the supply. Many of the wonders attributed j (
to spirit-agency are, I fear, pure charlatanry. Whilst, in N
other cases, charlatanry would seem to have been practised | /
by men and women only in exceptional instances—the phe- j \
nomena ordinarily occurring through their agency being 1/
able to stand the most rigid tests and closest scrutiny. j \
Then there is the most astounding ignorance on all general j )
subjects, which not a few of the public advocates of Spirit- j \
ualism exhibit. Worse than this, there is superficiality, j)
demanding and receiving from many the credit of large . ] {
knowledge and profound thought—Ignorance, self-elevated j)
to the chair of authority, and pronouncing, d la Sir Oracle, on j (
all matters, however recondite. j)
A disposition when imposture, or something akin to it, is j j
made but too evident, to treat it all too tenderly, may be j)
mentioned in this category. So, also, may the disunion of j >
Spiritualists, their crotchetiness, their practical forgetfulness | j
of the circumstance that for the present many plausible and j |
promising theories can only be tentative, their tea-pot tern- j (
pests and lack of that mutual forbearance and general good j)
temper which would contribute largely alike to their mutual 11
respect, and to the desirable end of securing the respect of
others. But now, these circumstances and others of like jj
kind, which form the staple of the objections expressed by j j
many, are, I submit, of little or no weight when balanced j j
against pro-Spiritualistic arguments. They are but as the j)
dust which settles alike upon the priceless jewel and upon ij
its worthless counterfeit. Most of them are to be set down j)
to the fact that modern Spiritualism Lis but in its earliest i l
stages of development, or to the other fact, that conceding j /
the essential truth of the whole subject, it is destined to make j y
its way, as so many other most important truths have made j /
theirs, by first indoctrinating the comparatively uncultured j \
minds of ordinary men. Its phenomena are apprehensible j /
by, and therefore subject to the treatment of anybody and I \
everybody. j /
Waiving further reference to this ragged regiment of j
objectors, I cannot help beholding with surprise the very j)
many who, habituated to the exact investigation which scien- j \
tific pursuits require, refuse to bring it to bear upon the |)
alleged facts of Spiritualism, with a view to either their n
endorsement or disproof. One would think that these men | \
would be able to make short work of the matter. The prior j j
disqualification of supposing anything beyond the region of I /
mathematics to be impossible, cannot attach to them. Neither j j
is it to be supposed that any results in any department of !)
research can be regarded by them as either too eccentric or | j
too insignificant to be worthy of the most careful study, jj
Power of concentrated thought and of protracted examination j j
is peculiarly theirs. They, too, have shown more than most | j
men the courage of their convictions. Whence comes it that, j)
with the exception of some three or four,to be mentioned always j j
with every expression of admiration and honour, the occupants
of a high place in the scientific world refuse to bestow upon the
asserted facts of Spiritualism that attention which they do not
deem the most trivial material phenomena unworthy to receive?
Of course, I do not complain that they do not take part
with Spiritualists, but that they do not qualify themselves to
take part either with or against them. As, without previous
examination and a statement of that fact and its results, to
describe serious inquirers into the subject as “ Dead Sea
apes,” is unworthy of the character and position of the most
famous and honoured of our literary savants; so, to affirm
that if the communications which are professedly made by
disembodied spirits through “ mediums ” are genuine, he,
because of their triviality, does not care to know anything
about them, is inconsistent, not only with the high position,
but with the entire course of the very able professor who is
reported so to have expressed himself. Most carefully would
I abstain from the imputation of motives not the worthiest;
scarcely, however, can I restrain the inquiry, Do these men
really know, or at any rate suspect, that there is more in
Spiritualism than they could recognise, without abandoning
theories to which they stand committed, and with the per¬
petuation of which their credit is identified ? Not of their
most vigorous opposition to Spiritualism, but of a nature
worthy of themselves, could I bring myself thus to speak.
On the contrary, I should regard it as an invaluable contri¬
bution to my own, and to the world’s just conclusions on the
subject. It is their simple aloofness, their indifference, so
inconsistent with their own principles, that is provocative of
the suggestion.
But I see another and still larger party of non-Spiritualists
—in many cases they are anti-Spiritualists—whose position
I must regard as anomalous and inexplicable. I have already
referred to the claim which the subject has upon the careful
thought of Christians of various kinds. Now religion, as I
understand it, is something broader in its basis—I will not
say than Christianity as its Founder taught it, but than
Christianity as men generally understand it. The persons
to whom I now refer, are those who, being deeply interested
in the conservation of the great underlying facts of all
religion, fail to perceive the claims which, on that ground
alone, Spiritualism has upon their most earnest and careful
study. Let but the idea prevail that death is the termina¬
tion of personal existence, and religion, on the part of people
in general, will be impossible. Nay, however visionaries and
the partisans of pet theories may agree as to the compatible¬
ness of that nescience on which certain philosophers insist
with such devoutness as constitutes the essence of the re¬
ligious life, I opine that in the case of any individual, in
proportion as he is firmly convinced of the former, the latter
will be found to decline, and will ultimately cease to be.
Every one, therefore, concerned for the cultivation of re¬
ligion in his own heart, and for its prevalence in the world,
must admit the supreme importance of being assured as to
the existence of a personal posthumous life. There are cur¬
rent circumstances which render fresh evidence in its favour
greatly to be desired. It is not that certain of the old argu¬
ments may not really be sufficient to warrant intelligent and
confident conviction in its favour, but it is that the attack
upon them by a few has generated doubt respecting them in
many. An echo of the denial of immortality finding expres¬
sion in the language : “ There is hope of a tree, if it be cut
down, that it will sprout again ; but if a man die, shall he
live again ? ” has come to us from the long past, by way of a
very few of the deep-thinkers of the present. The multitude
have heard it; they do not repeat it, nor altogether concur
in it, but anxiously they urge the inquiry which it awakens,
“ If a man die, shall he live again ? ” Now obviously the one
thing which they especially require is the authoritative
affirmation, If a man die, he shall live again. All to whom
the interests of religion are precious, might be supposed to
admit and feel the force of this representation. And this is the
very requirement with which Spiritualism professes to com¬
ply. What occurs to me as most unworthy of religious men,
is their disregard of this profession. If false, surely it is not
beyond their powers, nor unworthy of them to prove it to be
so; if true, must they not be unfaithful to the claims of their
convictions and of the age, in not availing themselves of the
support which it would furnish ?
There are several other classes of persons whose attitude
April 25, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
201
with respect to Spiritualism claims consideration ; but passing
over these, I proceed to mention certain things which appear
to me to be real difficulties preventing full conviction and
consequent earnest advocacy. These, let me say, do not con¬
sist, either wholly or in part, in the cost of whatever kind,
which such conviction and advocacy would involve. Most
emphatically do I believe, that to save life at the cost of truth
and principle, is to sacrifice the chief glory of life ; and that
to lose life for the truth’s sake, is to find, to dignify, and
glorify it.
, “ He’s a slave, who wo\ild not choose
Hatred, scoffing, and abuse,
Rather than in silence shrink
From the truth he needs must think;
He’s a slave, who would not be
In the right with two or three.”
I half hesitate to enumerate the difficulties of which I have
spoken, lest my object in doing so should be misunderstood.
I cannot help thinking, however, that it is of considerable
importance that Spiritualists should know how outsiders are
affected by incidents about which it may be the initiated
were themselves once exercised, but whose influence upon
them, they, since their period of full conviction, have perhaps
forgotten.
First, I mention the fact, that attendant on the phenomena
which otherwise would be the most convincing, there are
generally some circumstances—often plausibly, perhaps satis¬
factorily accounted for—which yet await to prevent unquali¬
fied confidence.
There are mysterious noises/ but then one is generally not
quite sure but that they are the effect of electrical or other
atmospheric disturbance. There are stances conducted by
well-attested public mediums, but inquirers may attend
many times and nothing of any account may take place, the
conditions being, it is said, unfavourable.
There are unaccountable displacements of furniture—the
floating in air of chairs, tables, and musical-boxes, the
obedience of these last to the expressed wishes of sitters in
circle, and many similar phenomena ; but then these things
generally require more or less complete darkness as the
condition of their occurrence.
There is the power of extrication from the firmest bonds;
but the same thing, or apparently the same, is accomplished
by clever conjurers.
There is an alleged power of healing; but mesmerism, apart
from Spiritualism, would seem to possess the same power in
about equal degree.
Trance-mediums utter sometimes striking so-called im¬
provisations ; but, in many instances, the most wholesale
plagiarism has been proved against them.
The home-circle is recommended, and that professional
mediums should be dispensed with; but the testimony of, I
think, the great majority of those who have acted on this
advice, is to the effect that the results are most unsatisfactory.
In many instances nothing occurs, and in a yet larger number
only those phenomena which are most elementary, and as an
evidence of spirit-agency most inconclusive.
Clairvoyant power is claimed; but, singularly enough, when
the fact of its possession would be rendered indubitable—as, for
instance, were it to be employed to detect the criminal, to
vindicate the innocent, or to relieve the needy—it is almost
always at fault.
There are psychometric revelations ; but these, at least in
some cases, are believed to be opposed to unquestionable fact.
Searching tests are said to be desired; but often those
which alone the investigator deems satisfactory are declined.
There are so-called materialisations of disembodied human
spirits ; but, strange to say, their identification is generally
most difficult, and even the most pronounced Spiritualists
have often expressed doubt respecting it.
Many more circumstances of a similarly perplexing kind
might be adduced.
I must beg my hearers to understand that I do not men¬
tion all these things as a justification of anti-Spiritualism,
but rather as an explanation of non-Spiritualism—a vindi¬
cation of the long-continued residence of some on the
frontier-lines of Spiritualism, who on many accounts would
much prefer to advance to a position in the interior. Nor
should it be overlooked that these circumstances are cumula-
M tive in their effect. Any two or three of them might be
| (| allowed to admit of easy explanation, butjtaken together the
111 difficulty they constitute becomes formidable,
m The temporariness of the zeal of apparently sincere and
j) I earnest converts may be mentioned among the circumstances
| (| which arrest the progress towards conviction of the duly cau-
I) j tious investigator. Certainly, I know not of many instances,
;j (j but those with which I am acquainted suggest the inquiry,
|)) “ How can it be possible that assurance of posthumous life
I (I should be possessed; that communications with departed ones
j j! should be established, and that persons thus favoured should
y.\ not feel that Spiritualism has claims upon their life-long
jij adhesion, their most zealous maintenance ? ” One would
| (| think that instead of growing cold in its service or relinquish-
m ing its advocacy, advancing years would render it increas-
i l \ ingly precious, and produce a readiness to sacrifice very much
j) i in its cause. Have those persons, once prominent among its
j (| supporters, who now never refer to it, and who seem to have
I) I lost interest in it—have they discovered the fallacy of reason-
| (! ing they once thought conclusive, and that what they once
}) regarded as fact was in reality only fact-like fiction? I do
I (| not mean to imply that I think it is thus with them, but
(j only that their recreancy requires some explanation, and
I ; suggests this one, Men may grow weary in well-doing,
| / j often do so; but a demonstrated truth, one, i.e., which resting
|(j upon the testimony of their senses they would in most cases
1/1 so regard, and which appeals to their deepest feelings and
j\| satisfies their most urgent requirements, would not be likely
j/j to be relinquished by them.
Iv! I will, in the next place, mention the idea which sometimes
j/i presents itself to my mind, and which takes rank among
ij! the circumstances rendering difficult my adoption of the
j/j Spiritualist creed. That idea is, that the relation of Spirit-
js| ualist doctrines to current thought, which, whilst it may,
j/j as I have stated, indicate divine ordination for the purpose
Kj of meeting the exigencies of that thought and to endorse
j)j ‘ the phenomena on which the doctrines are based, also may
m be the mere outcome of the subjection, alike of Spiritualist
and of non-Spiritualist, to the same mysterious thought-
m moulding and history-making influence. As the ages roll
m on, one error after another comes to be exploded. Slow,
!! ordinarily, the process may be, but certain of occurrence,
i Theological error, the most tenacious in its hold on the human
mind, is made sooner or later to succumb to this law. An
j influence begotten of an apparently unbeginning succession
rVJ of facts of all kinds, and of innumerable present and con-
j) current circumstances, avails at last to undermine beliefs the
m most venerable and the most general. As after centuries of
m defiance or change, the stately structure gives evidence in all
jyj its parts of subjection to the universal law of decay, so the
j) j most time-honoured creeds and theories are seen to give signs
\)\ of decadence in all their parts. Such effect being produced
j no man can determine precisely by what or how. The
m mysterious influence which so operates as to change the habit
j| and result of human thought is exerted, not occasionally and
nj exceptionally, but habitually and generally. The scholarly
m and the philosophic mind, and the popular mind, though not
j) j similarly, are yet alike certainly affected by it. Now when
m Spiritualist teaching and scientific teaching agree in lending
nj support to the modern ideas of evolution and of conservation
m of energy, or when they unite in demanding a broader
j Vj basis for religious development than Christendom has hereto-
j (j fore recognised, but which broader basis the most thoughtful
nj among all the Christian sects are beginning to admit must
j (I exist—is it not possible and likely that, instead of this being
j) j attributable in the case of Spiritualist and spirit teaching, it
lyj is the consequence of the subjection of all alike to the action
j ) j of the one great tidal wave of influence which is bearing the
j(j age on to the destined haven of enlarged and improved con-
j / j ception P I mean simply that the thought occurs, May not
(j that feature in Spiritualism which best commends the whole
j) j subject to the sympathy and approval of many, be attributable
j \ | really—the Spiritualists perceive it not—to something outside
j) j of the subject, and so be no argument in its favour ? May not
(I the communications claiming spirit origin be really the reflec-
j) i tion of the unconscious thought of the recipient ?
j \ j But another circumstance, and one which I fancy Spirit-
[) j ualists must themselves perceive, constitutes a great difficulty
1 ‘; in the way of candid investigators, is the fact that whilst a
202
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 25, 1879.
great variety of communications are said to be made by
departed spirits, there is a singular absence of such as it
may be presumed could scarcely fail to compel conviction.
Whether immediately, or by way of some abnormal me-
diumistic power, the knowledge both of past and of future
events is said to be communicated by the spirits of the
departed, very extraordinary are some of the well-attested
instances of such communications. A very little advance
along this line, and all reasonable persons could not fail to
be convinced, if not of spirit agency, of an obligation rest¬
ing, as upon all who lay claim to intelligence, so especially
upon scientific and religious investigators, never to rest until
some sufficient cause of such astounding facts had been dis¬
covered by them. To illustrate my meaning, suppose the
existence and whereabouts of undeniable documentary evi¬
dence as to the authorship of the “Letters of Junius ” or of
Ossian’s “ Poems ” were pointed out; or suppose it were com¬
municated that some two or three of the plays which are
among those most confidently attributed to Shakespeare
were in reality the productions of Lord Bacon, and that the
proof of this was to be found in certain letters which passed
between these two men and which still existed, and were to
be found in a certain place, then described, the whole being
afterwards verified. Or to suggest what may be described
as an imperial instance—suppose the original MS. of any
one of the books of the New Testament, say of the Fourth
Gospel, were by some person under control asserted to be
still in existence ; suppose that the place where it was to be
found were described, and suppose that proceeding upon this
information the document itself were brought to light—could
the effect be other than most favourable to the claims of
Spiritualism ? I know to this last suggestion it may be
replied that the thing is impossible, because the MS. in
question has perished or been destroyed. But, admitting
that this may be, there must be many other documents
supposed to be irrecoverable, the discovery and production of
which, in the way and by the means I have indicated, would
be equally convincing.
I readily concede that a pertinent, if not perfectly satis¬
factory reply may be made to these representations as to the
supposableness of certain circumstances which would be
convincing, but are not forthcoming. Not any the less, how¬
ever, does their absence constitute a difficulty in the way of
inquirers, and especially when regarded in connection with
those other considerations to which I have invited, or now
proceed to invite, attention. I do not attach much import¬
ance to the objections felt by many on the ground of the
triviality, or inconsistency, or other peculiarity of the mes¬
sages said to be communicated. All this may, I think, be
fairly accounted for. The one question on this subject which
only is of great moment is, “Do the messages really
proceed, as Spiritualism teaches, from invisible beings, and
were those beings once conditioned as we now are ? ’’ There
is, however, one circumstance about these messages which I
have not seen satisfactorily explained. They not only take
form from the peculiarities of the “ medium,” but their
nature, their essence, often seems to be determined by those
peculiarities. That the mental and moral features of the
medium should leave impression upon, and mould the
communications, seems reasonable—that the mould should
determine the material moulded, is startling. There is one
circumstance which I do not remember to have seen re¬
marked on, which has often occurred to me as occupying a
rather prominent place in this category of difficulties. It is
admitted by all that the conditions of the existence of
departed hurran beings are wholly unlike our own. Of
course, therefore, we are utterly unable to form any rational
conception of them. Any description of them must of
necessity be rather merely symbolical or absolutely incom¬
prehensible. Just as if man had always possessed only four
senses, and the attempt were made— say by some incarnated
visitor from some other world—to describe to him a fifth
sense, that attempt would of necessity be a failure ; or just as
the endeavour to conceive of a sixth sense would in any case
be fruitless, so I should imagine any attempt to unveil the
realities of disembodied life must be unsuccessful. What
astonishes me is, not that communications from the possessors
of that life should be unintelligible, but that they should be
so like to our comprehension. They are difficult of belief
i because so easy to be understood. They are so natural as to
leave the impression of being unnatural.
Now, I can anticipate the kind of remark which this
statement of an inquirer’s many difficulties may elicit.
! “ Whatever,” ft may be said,—“ whatever an outsider may
j see or may not see, whatever he may admit or whatever he
may object, there are the phenomena—indisputable, proven.
We have just the same evidence of their occurrence that we
. i have of the presence in this room of the speaker and of his
) | audience. And there is the explanation—no more admitting
\ | of rational dispute than does the explanation that the sight
) i of a friend and the sound of his voice are attributable to his
(\ actual presence.” The consideration of this supposed reply
)| suggests a statement of what is, I think, after all, the chief
\j difficulty—so great that, if removed, all other difficulties
|! would thereby be proved to be capable of easy solution, or
j! rather to be already in process of rapid annihilation. For
ri the majority of our beliefs we are necessarily dependent on
> i testimony. Refusal to give Spiritualism a place among them
I; may be deemed ungracious. It is the testimony of so many
\ \ persons, and of persons so many of whom are admittedly of
(j lofty principles and noble character, and who are in every
ji way competent to weigh evidence and to arrive at just
<; conclusions. Feeling the force of all this, I yet dare to
) i decide that upon this subject, so unique, about which we are
(| asked to believe that which revolutionises not only popular
j i ideas but the best thought of the very great majority of the
I best thinkers of the present time and of all ages, and the
issues dependent on which are so incomparably momentous
—conversion may well be made to wait on such conviction as
is born of personal experience. That which we are assured
j is ever transpiring is enough to transform the sceptic, if but
)\ a good man and true, into the most ardent disciple. That
(j which has transpired under our own observation—and some
) I of us have embraced all possible opportunities of observation
(\ —has been, in some instances, unaccountable indeed, but con-
)| sidered as premises warranting the Spiritualist conclusion,
pitiful beyond description. This fact it is which lies like
) i some huge impassable mountain between ourselves and that
j | land of full conviction where we would fain find our home.
51 What I have now said suggests the further remark, that
\ | I think Spiritualists should be on their guard against exces-
|| sive sensitiveness with respect to the hesitancy with which
their testimony is received. Often the only alternative which
presents itself or seems possible, to that of offending against
our own desire to be courteous and confiding, and against the
sentiment of self-respect with which a consciousness of recti-
j| tude and high honour inspires our informants, is that of
) I resting satisfied with testimony, when we feel that the pecu-
(| liarity of the questions at issue not only warrants, but de-
)! mands that we should be content only with such evidence as
{| makes appeal through our own senses to our power of appre-
r hension. One can readily excuse the disposition to resent
{I incredulity when it is felt that it appears to reflect upon
) i either the discernment or the good faith of the witnesses in
11 the case. Let me say that, anomalous as it may seem, such
) | incredulity does not necessarily do this. We may be sure
11 that our informants are, in all respects, all that we could
)! desire them to be, and yet we may feel that it is just possible
j there may be a flaw in the evidence somewhere, and that
(| that fact renders delay imperative. Apparent but unintended
j j and unmerited reflection upon Spiritualists should, I think, be
11 regarded by them as a part of that process of moral martyrdom
) I to which the earliest champions of unrecognised truth must
( j submit—the cross by way of the endurance of which the
) I crown is to be secured.
l\ May I further remark on the imperativeness of the obliga
> \ tion which rests on those who are fully assured of the facts,
<; and of their explanation to assert their principles, to propagate
j| their faith. In this dark world, with the multitudes groping
(! in all directions as blind men for the wall, to hide light of
I any kind or degree under a bushel, is to merit the contempt
I of our generation and of all future ages. I have seen it
| counselled that because men of science and others have ex¬
hibited deplorable prejudice in relation to this subject, they
| should be treated with scorn—left in their ignorance, without
j I further attempt to convince them. The anger which thus
^ i finds expression may not be without excuse, but the old maxim
is worthy of regard, “Wrath worketh not righteousness.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
203
April 25, 1879.
Every dictate of humanity and every prompting of true j j
religion suggests, that all which we believe to be true on a ||
subject so entwined with all the dearest associations and best {
aspirations of men, we should assert fearlessly, and self- I / j
sacrificingly seek to promote. I (S
To this remark I will only add the suggestion that the ! /1
object upon which effort should be concentrated should be jj
rather conviction of the occurrence of the phenomena than the | / j
admission of any theory respecting their cause. Facts first, l
explanations afterwards. To thrust forward the latter before j) i
the former are admitted, is to retard their admission. What j (j
men need most of all to he assured of, is that these things j) i
do really occur. Once satisfied on this point, they will not j (j
long delay the consideration of the other. Certain papers j)j
read at these fortnightly meetings, detailing incidents in the i | j
home circle, and vouched for by those who are above suspicion |) j
of either credulity or fraud, appear to me to be of a kind j (
which it were wisdom to expend the resources of the Society !)
in spreading broadcast over all the land. “ Give us facts/’ j >
people say (and not unnaturally or unwisely), “ and we,” they j (
add, “ will discover their philosophy for ourselves.” I can- |)
not help thinking that it would be well if some three or four or I (
half-dozen representative Spiritualists whose names command j j
public respect, and who are willing to pledge their credit in K
attestation of certain of the more remarkable of the phe- \)
nomena, were to he invited, importuned, if necessary, to adopt j |
every available means of advertising the world of their occur- j;
rence—to even force a statement of them on the attention of | (
the public, and to not only encourage, but invite inquiry and |)
investigation. Forsucha work all necessary pecuniary means j (
would surely be forthcoming; and, assuming that Spiritualism j /
rests on a firm basis, it is impossible but that the result should K
be abundantly compensative. I am quite aware of the dis- !)
tastefulness to many minds of such self-obtrusion on the j(
attention of reluctant auditors. I know, also, that many of \)
the details which are felt to be most convincing possess a ij
sacredness which the duly sensitive shrink from violating. I u
would submit, however, whether being made the depositaries h
of truths so pregnant with such incomparably important j
results to all thought, all people, all time, does not originate n
an obligation to disregard feelings which, under other circum- j
stances, might well demand respect and determine conduct. j
Once more and for the last time I direct a hasty glance, j
first at the country adjacent to Spiritualism, and then at that
enclosure itself. The spectacle which I beheld is memorable jl
and affecting. Men and women often deluded and made i]
wary by the fact, cannot but have their attention arrested by j J
the strange things which Spiritualism brings to their ears, j (
More or less vividly and habitually they realise that they are j1
standing on the confines of another world—a world which the |,
strongly insisted on but often utterly baseless doctrines of j
religious teachers have availed to invest with such circum- j]
stances as inspire habitual concern and often intense dread, jj
With some little hope, though more than half suspiciously, j
they inquire, “What may this new doctrine mean? Is j
there, can there be in it aught which can meet our case, j
which can assure our hearts?” Yery many there are who, j
educated into the reception and retention of certain dogmas, j
or stimulated by appeals to the emotional side of their nature j
to accept and cling to those dogmas, are yet ever and again j
more or less affected by that spirit of free inquiry with which |
the very air of our day is charged. Sometimes with “ bated j i
breath ” and much of self-accusation for their temerity, at other i j
times with something of the boldness which true manhood j (
may well inspire, they express their doubts of the perfect jj
satisfactoriness of such evidence for their beliefs as their i i
teachers are wont to adduce. They do not yield a willing ear j j
to the representations of Spiritualism. Is it likely they jj
should ? !)o not their instructors assure them that so much j j
of it as is true is of the devil ? But they constitute material j <
upon which Spiritualists may well attempt to operate, jj
Numerous, well-intentioned, appreciative of moral excellence, j (
important factors in the creation of current history, and in j j
many cases predisposed to the re-examination of their beliefs, i <
and of their warrant for them, their conversion would he, and j J
not to themselves only, a great gain—as life indeed to the j1
dead. But, again, I see certain, many, the present nature of j J
whose experience constitutes an appeal the effect of which i j
no Spiritualist, being a sound-hearted man, can resist. Their
heart’s most cherished treasures have been transported into
the great beyond. A whisper as to the welfare of these their
dear ones arouses their profoundest interest. Assurance of
that welfare were the best boon with which God Himself could
enrich them. With streaming eyes they turn to those who
profess to be able to certify them of the perpetuated life of
all the so-called dead. With an intensity of feeling which
almost renders their utterance unintelligible they cry, “By
all your hopes of the welfare of your own departed deceive us
not, but if you have ground for the blessed assurance that
our dead do really live let us but know it, and our stricken
hearts will evermore environ you with blessings.”
I turn to those who are thus addressed. Instead, however,
of further noting what I see in them and their proceedings,
I make common cause with their appellants, and say, “ 0!
bothers, you profess that you have a supply for the world’s
deepest needs, a balm for its worst wounds. I am quite sure
that your profession is sincere. I more than half believe
that you are not mistaken in that which you profess. Will
you bear with me for desiring and seeking full assurance ?
Nay! that that assurance be made doubly sure ?” This effected,
I should deem it the most delightful duty, during what part of
life may remain, to assist as best I may in your arduous but
high vocation, for assuredly I should regard your mission as
of one nature with that of the most honoured of all of woman
born—viz., to bring life and immortality to light.
DESTRUCTIVE EIRE AT “THE SPIRITUALIST” PRINTING
OFFICE.
Last night, about eight o’clock, a fire broke out at the printing establish¬
ment of Messrs. Beveridge and Co., Nos, 9, 10, and 11, Fullwood’s-rents,
Holborn, causing the destruction of considerable property. A report was
at first spread about that the Duke’s Theatre was on fire. The excitement
in Fullwood’s-rents was very great. It was about a quarter-past eight when
fire was seen about the centre of the building making its way rapidly iu the
direction of the staircase. Five steam engines and three manuals were
quickly present—all of them, from necessity, being placed in Holborn, and
the hose had to be conveyed up Warwick-court to reach the back of the
burning premises. At the same time of the outbreak Mr. Beveridge was in
his private office, and the whole of the hands had ceased work, but fortu¬
nately the books of the firm were removed in safe condition. The “ press¬
room ” on the first floor, and the two floors above, occupied as composing-
rooms, were quickly in a blaze, and Superintendent Gatehouse directed the
attention of his men to the preservation of the warehouse and machine de¬
partments underneath. It was not till the upper part of the premises was
burned out, and considerable damage to other portions of the property was
sustained, that the engines were able to cease playing. Captain Shaw’s
official report of the fire is as follows:—At 8.18 p.m. last night, called to a
fire at 9, 10,11, Fullwood’s-rents, Holborn, occupied by Messrs. Beveridge
and Company, printers. A building of five floors, about 35ft. by 35ft.
three upper floors nearly burnt out and most part of the roof off, ground floor
and basement and contents damaged by water; contents insured. No. 8,
ditto, occupied by Mr. J. J ones, cardboard manufacturer, building and con¬
tents slightly damaged by water; insurance not known. No. 17, ditto, let
out in tenements, front scorched and roof slightly damaged by breakage;
insurancenot known. Nos. 18,19, and 20, occupied by Mr. J. Walters, fronts
scorched; contents insured. No. 6, Warwick-court, ditto, occupied by T.
Porter; passage slightly damaged by water; insurancenot known. No. 7,
ditto, building sligntly damaged by water, and skylight by breakage;
insurance unknown: cause of fire unknown.—The Echo.
Mediumship.—The Melbourne Age, of December 30th last, says:—
“Last night, Mr. Walker, the Spiritualist lecturer, delivered an address to
a crowded audience in the Academy of Music Theatre, on The Spiritual
Telegraph and How it is Worked. Mr. Walker addressed himself princi¬
pally to an explanation of the mode in which spirits are said to communicate
with the material world. He asked his audience not to despise the ap¬
parently contemptible methods whereby the spirits communicated with
mortal oeings. The process might appear simple and even ridiculous, but
the result was of the utmost importance. The most important messages
were transmitted between persons in different parts of the world by means of
common wire, and an electric current obtained from such common materials
as zinc and copper, yet the messages were not despised on that account.
The most exalted sentiments of humanity were transmitted from age to age
by means of the simple pen and paper made of rags, yet those ideas and
opinions became none the less valuable for that. It mattered not therefore
that communication between the spirit and the material world was carried
on by means of rags so long as the message was valuable. The means of
communication might appear contemptible in itself, but what did it matter
so long as it resulted in the establishment of intercourse with the immortal
denizens of the invisible spheres ? The lecturer recommended his audience
to prepare themselves for mediumship, in order to do which he said they
must lead virtuous lives, be abstemious, and not too much engrossed with
the affairs of the world. The ordeal was often a difficult one to go through,
requiring much patience and perseverance, and the objects of those who be¬
came candidates for mediumsbip were often of an unworthy description. At
the conclusion of a lengthy address, which was listened to with attention,
Mr. Walker answered a number of questions, after which the meeting
terminated.”
204
fSPIRITtrALlS?.
April 25, 1879.
A FIVE DAYS’ TRANCE. j
The Boston Sunday Herald of March 16th, 1879, contains ||
the followingII
“A special despatch to the Cincinnati Enquirer, from Free- j)
lansyille, Indiana, of the 12th of March, says:—What is con- ij
sidered a remarkable case of trance has happened here lately. |(
The victim is Miss Flora Feihleman, the daughter of a well- |\
to-do farmer, residing near this place. The facts are these, k
Miss Feihleman, whose family are Catholics, returned from j)
the school of Notre Dame, Indiana, last December. Since !)
her return she has been in very ill-health, moaning and toss- j
ing in fever at night. Immediately after the late cold spell f|
she was attacked with pneumonia, now so fatally prevalent |(
in this region. Notwithstanding she had the best medical U
attendance to be procured in this vicinity, she died on ||
Monday, March 3, or at least apparently died. Were it not u
for the fact of Miss Feihleman being an only child, it is j
probable that she would have been buried immediately, but, | r
as it was, it was decided to hold the corpse until relatives ||
from Ohio, who had been sent for, could arrive. This delayed jj
the funeral until March 8. The funeral was to take place at n
two p.m. At that time, as the friends and relatives were ||j
taking a last look, the corpse not yet having been taken from |)
the house, the mother, being last to view the remains, k
suddenly bent over the body, and, uttering a cry, declared I)
that she saw the eyelids move as if in life. The father with j
other friends commenced immediately to try by gentle move- If
ments to withdraw her from the room. They had nearly j
accomplished this when the corpse, to the surprise of all,
suddenly arose and assumed a sitting posture in the coffin, u
Miss Feihleman is said by those who witnessed the scene to j)
have gazed around with a vacant, surprised stare, and then K
to have sank back apparently exhausted. She was immediately n
removed and placed in bed, but it was, perhaps, three hours H
before she was conscious enough to give any account of her- |>
self. The period she passed in trance she is perfectly dead j(
to—it seems to her a perfect blank. The parents are over- if
joyed, and the case excites much comment in the neighbour- i(
hood.’, |
The Soiree Committee of tlie National Association of Spiritualists asks j (
us to announce that next Tuesday a soiree will take place in their rooms at |)
Great Russell-street, London. j)
"Will be Published in a few Days, j(
Cloth, Crown 8vo, Red Edges, Price Five Shillings and Sixpence. Post Free, j)
THE FIRST VOLUME OF jj
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES. |
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON. |
The book is full of Spirit-Identity. j (
The Superfine Edition, hound in half calf, Eight Shillings and Sixpence. ;)
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C. i(
Now ready. Cloth, Pp. 234. Five Shillings. ];
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE. |
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions on Religious j \
Philosophy, l)
By W. W. CLARK. |
CoNl'ENts :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place i /
and Function — Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism — The ])
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Place and Human | (
Elements. „ !(
London : Truhner and Co., 57 and 69, Ludgate-hill, E.C. j\
Just Published. K
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red edges. I j
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM. I
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit* i)
ualism, and setting forth his experience. 1/
With a dedication to if
The REV* SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART., |
by l{
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY, j
• * • • 4 . • !)
’ Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism t i(
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C. »>
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol, II. Treating of the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. 6d.
Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. 6d,; the work complete, 22s. 6d.
CONTENTS :
Pabt II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro*
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration ; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion ; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
Book H. —Th e Abnormal Action of the Mechanism. —Chapter 1. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future; 2, How to be Pursued; 3. Objections and
Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea ;
6. How we Know; 7. Scientific Evidence; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III,—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep ; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep ; 4. The Seat of
Sleep; 6. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
BookIV.—The Phenomena of Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
2. Insanity.
Book V. The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1, Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism ; 3. Natural Somnambulism; 4. Artificial Somnambulism;
5. The Phenomena of Artificial Somnambulism ; 6. The Physiology of Somnam¬
bulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI.—Supersensuous Perception.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception j 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The Phenomena of Trance;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII.—Psychism. — Introduction; Chapter 1. Objections and
Objectors; 2. The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force; 4. The Methods of Inves¬
tigation ; 6. The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic ; 7. The Physio¬
logy of Psychic Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence; 9. Phenomena of
Psychism; 10. More Phenomena of Psychism; 11. Other Phenomena of
Psychism; 12. Communicated Phenomena; 13. The Physiology and Psy¬
chology of Psychism.
Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapterl. The Summing up; 2. Conclusions
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Price Two Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other kitems of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
JustPublished,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s. post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“ RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN BROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris.
These poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare
literary excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. fid. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN USER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Vay (Countess Wurmbband).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
April 25, 1879,
T&E SPIRIl'IJALlST,
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHO¬
LOGY, MESMERISM, ANTHROPO¬
LOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
Price Five Shillings. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new hook by
M.A. (OXON), oh
PSYOHOGRAPHY.
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russel Street, Bloomsbury, London,
W. 0.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has
been rented on the premises of the National Association of
Spiritualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist News¬
paper and publishing business are not in any way connected
with each other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crooks, F.R.S. The best work
ever published to scientifically demonstrate the reality
of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to
reveal to him by vision events connected with the early
history of geological specimens, these sensitives thus
saw the Mastodon and other extinct animals as if living
and moving before them; they likewise saw the scenes
by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions
of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation
of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engrav¬
ings, drawn by the sensitives as the visions passed
before their eyes. The substance of a review of this
book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect that there
is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants
who would not cheat him. The question as to the
reliability of the narratives therefore narrows itself down
to the question of the reliability of clairvoyance, which,
when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate
results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary
communication should be established, it will be by
means of clairvoyance or some other of the latent and
little understood spiritual powers in man. Three Vols.
24s. j or 8s. per single volume.
WORKS BT ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia , .
The Teacher. ,, II. ,, . .
The Seer. „ III. »> • »
The Reformer. „ IV. •
The Thinker. ,, V. ,, . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth, v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurrring Questions from the People.
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . •
Harbinger of Health . , . . •
Harmonial man; or, Thoughts for the Age . .
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . - .
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse .
The Inner Life: or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . .
Tale of a Physician; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .
Morning Lectures .....
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
6
7
2
3
3
7
3
7
2
3
7
6
7
7
6
6
2
3
7
d.
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
0
6
0
6
6
8
6
6
6
6
6
0
0
0
0
0
6
0
6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
Oriental Religion (Johnson) . . . .24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb Spiritualist newspaper. . 2
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing
interesting particulars and legends relating to
Buddhism . . . . . .14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . 18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . 12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . , .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale
Owen . . . : . . . .7
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the
Zulus, by the Rev Henry Gallaway, M.D. In six
parts . . . . . . . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into
English, with Preliminary Essays and Explana¬
tory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . 10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions
interpreted by Comparative Mythology, by John
Flske, M.A. . . . . . .10
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice ftom the Ganges, by an
Indian Officer . . , . . .5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into
English from the Chinese Classes, by James Legge,
D.D., LL.D 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged)
Explanation of the Mysteries of Modem Spirtual-
ism, Dreams, Trance,. Somnambulism, Vital
Photogiaphy, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anae¬
sthesia, and Nervous Congestions, by Robert H.
Collyer, M.D.   12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P.
Brown, Secretary of the Legation of the United
States of America at Constantinople , .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia,
North Germany and.the Netherlands, by Benjamin
Thorpe. In three vols. » . . .18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahom-
med. Translated into English immediately from
the original ArabiCi by George Sale • • 10
0
6
0
0
0
6
0
6
0
6
6
0
0
6
0
6
6
Illustrated with Diagrams,
synopsis op cohtehts.
List of Works bearing on the subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbd—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That attested by the senses :—
1. —Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr, James Bams, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. —Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
George King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgewood, Canon Mouls,
Baroness Von Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.
Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan, Epes Sargent, James O’ Sargent, John
Wetherbee, H. B. Storer, 0. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee
with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the
Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence «f Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr.
Blackburn (Slade) ; Dutch, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese (Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame
Blavatsky (Watkins); Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timay-
enis (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Prepa¬
ration of the Writing :—
Psychics and Conjurers Contrasted ; Slade before the
Research Committee of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci,;
Evidence of—Rev. J. Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J.
Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely screwed
together—Evidence of Mrs. Andrews and J. Mould; Dicta¬
tion of Words at the Time of the Experiment—Evidence of—
A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J. P.,
Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld, M.D., Miss
Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside a
Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck
were conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with
White Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the subject of the
Prosecution of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and
Professor Barnett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: its Mode of Operation—Evidence
of 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George WyId’s Theory; The Oculist’s Theory; The.Spirit¬
ualist’s Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPHS SARGENT.
COHTEHTS,
Chapteb I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Appa¬
ritions—The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox,
J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers, D. D. Hume, and
Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II. — Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—Emerson
—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y.
and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—
Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Mediumship
of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Ex¬
periments—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by
Mr. William'Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. SeijeantCox—The Dialec¬
tical Society of London—Theoiy of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Sub¬
stances? — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits —
Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Descartes—Spinoza
—Herbert Spencer—Swedenborg— Proofs of Spirit Power
over Matter—^Testimony of S. 0. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit — The Senses—
Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine
of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship — Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr.C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dumphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmore,
Mrs, Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—Conclusive Experi¬
ments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr.
C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—^Materialisation Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seer-
ship —Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge
— Bacon — Luther—Calvin — Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-
Materialisation of Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIH.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena!
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in
God — Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine
Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—
The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Mora’ity — Sin
Punishes Itself — A Moral Creed — The Teachings of
Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections
to Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Gnldenstubbe—
James Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIH.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—
Concluding Reflections.
■ London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. ,
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritu¬
alists. A useful book to place in the public libraries, and to
present or send to those who are unacquainted with Spiritu¬
alism. It contains much about the religious aspect of
Spiritualism (given through the writing mediumship of
“ M.A. (Oxon), and is one of the most refined and elegant
works ever printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through
the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof..
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens.
How the writings were produced; The Magnificent Egotist,
Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind
Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peck-
craft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon
Miss Treherne) and Mrs.  .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-medium¬
ship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XL—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII.—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XHI.—Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXH.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—"Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritual¬
ism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism. By
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisling¬
bury from the German of Schiller.
XXVII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Chris¬
tianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A. Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat,
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wortherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVH.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritu-
alism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in
India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzie )
by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Ales,
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLHI.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relatiod
to Spiritualism. By Lisette MakdougaJI Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortallity. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; Post free for l|d.; or six copies post free for
6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW
Is now issued Mobthly at 6d„ or 7s. per annum,
sent free by post.
Post Office orders payable to the publishers,
Hat Nisbei axd Co., 62, Ropework - Lane, Glasgow,
CONTEXTS FOR APRIL.
Ourselves and Science; by Dr. ELitchman—Spiritual Mani*
festations; by Thos. Brevior—What is it ? by Rev. J. P,
Hopps—Garland of Legends, from Montalembert’s Monks of
the West; by A. M. W.—A Woman’s Word on Divine Judg¬
ment ; by J. W. F.—Inspiration, No. III.: The Myth of the
Logos; by Mrs. De Morgan—William Howitt (with two
engravings); by S. C. Hall—A Student’s Sea Story; by Mrs.
H. B. Stowe—At Nesper; by T. S.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Glasgow : H. Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework-lane,
JAMES MALTBYt
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military anb Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can
be given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N,W‘
iv
.. Just Published. . .
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence* post free, Crown 8vo»
' richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton
and the Author.
00111X1118.
Pari Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the News¬
paper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The
Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.
—7. How Hadji A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter
from Hadji A1 Shacabac, a gentleman who visited London
on business connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at
Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
A. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gardener.—
11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12 Our Raven.—13. Material¬
istic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Photographer.—15. How
to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song o’’
the Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-
Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “Under the
Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence-
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at
Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s Lament.—29.
The July Bug.—30. The Converted Carman,
Ornnoirs ox the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning which strongly recommends the book in
review nearly a column long, says :—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming
a thing of the past j consequently any writer who, like Mr.
Harrison, exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the
praise of all who are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent
laugh. . Not that his muse restricts heiself only to such
lighter utterances ; on the contrary, some of his poems
touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity.,.-.'. The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his
adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years.
. . . The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome
from which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The
Morning Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes are
pitched in “ something like the same key as The Bon
Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably
sii icessful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally we find verse
of great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure
poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
" Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour
should not fail to read The Lazy _ Lays and Prose Imaginings.
Written, printed, published and reviewed by William H.
Harrison (38, Great Russell-street). Both the verses and the
short essays are really funny, and in some of the latter there
is a vein of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun.
The Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather severe,
and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers ; but one of the most
laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be
photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse. . . . Some of the
metrical legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be
sung at the meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or
fifteen years ago. - Mr. Harrison, however, knows where to
plant his fun, and an accurate scientific mind like his can
make jokes with success. . . . To all who wish to read a
pleasant volume magnificently got up as a gift-book, we
commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“ An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and otheis in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original,
and not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
, “ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases
alluded to, and the imprint bears that the work is published
‘a.d. 1877 (popular chronology) ; a.m. 5877 (Torquemada);
a.m. 60,800,077 (Huxley).’ We believe that our readers
may derive a little amusement from a perusal of the
volume.’ ’
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of
which are in verse and others in prose, some scientific,
others social, but all of them excellent. . . . The Lazy Lays
will make excellent and amusing reading for an occasional
spare half-hour. . . . They contain nothing unrefined or in
bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
• “ How Hadji AI Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photo¬
graphed, is well done. . . . Bound in a cover Of somewhat
powerful design.” ■
From The Photographic News.
" Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar
in connection with photographic and other . scientific
literature, has considerable facility of versification, and
deals, in pleasant and humorous mood, with many scientific
follies which are better laughed down than gravely dis¬
puted.” ‘ •
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with
a due foundation of solid sense.”
, From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has
produced a most welcome book. . . .' ‘ How Hadji Al
Shacabac was Photographed ’ will be sure to make every
reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be
expected that his subjects should bear some trace of this
peculiar idiosyncrasy, and indeed they are as free and easy
THE SPlHlTTJgALtST.
as himself. . . . The poems are all characterised by smooth¬
ness and rhythmical swing. . Theworkis very elaborately
bound in cloth and gilt. . . .. A gorgeous design upon the
cover. ... If our readers wish to encourage laziness they
have a most deserving object in a very clever and versatile
member of the order.” *
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays,
Mr. William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its
appearance and entertaining in its contents. ... The author
is imbued with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all
while offending none ”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison,
a well-known contributor to the London and provincial
press, and editor of The Spiritualist. . . . Many of the
humorous poems reminds us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The
Lay of the Photographer, The Lay of the Mace-bearers, and some
of The Wobblejaw Ballads would not have been unworthy of
Barham himself. Some of the shorter poems are exquisite,
and there pervade through the whole a religious sentiment
and poetia feeling which will make them acceptable to most
readers.”
From the Daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The fines t thing in the book is * How Hadji Al Shacabac
was Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not
too extensive comic literature. The story is one of which
extracts would not give aflft adequate idea; it is intensely
humorous. . . . Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-
book of an amusing nature, will find what they want in The
Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Tost.
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . . . The serious and sentimental verses belong to
the type of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
“ It is after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain,
or any of those merry souls who do quite as much good in
their day and generation as the authors of the most serious
works. The Lays are always original, sometimes serious,
generally comic, but never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in.itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty ;
full of lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts,
abounding in tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit
and humour; and one that may be read many times over. ,
. . The get-up of the book is very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled ‘ The Wobblejaw Ballads,’
which appeared in the columns of this paper a short time
ago, and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.
An irate member of the Town Council officially called the
attention of the Mayor and Corporation of Folkstone to the
burlesques in the ‘Wobblejaw Ballads,’ but the members
assembled laughed at the matter, and proceeded to the next
business. The Mayor said that he did not mind them.] . . .
“ It contains some very choice poems and prose essays, is
bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original design of no
ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF spirit¬
ualism UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY-. Two Essays by
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green,
These Essays wow the First and Second Gold Medals oe
the British National Association or Spiritualists.
The /NpmfMalistf Newspaper Branch Office, London.
The trapped medium ; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustration,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant. Dr. Proto-
plaster, in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It
is an excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men and disbelievers in Spiritualism generally. A review
of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet
displays real genius. Price 6d.; post free, 6 id. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
AT MRS. PARKER’S, 3, BLOOMSBURY
PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.,
a Philosophical and Developing Circle is being formed.
Those wishing to join will please send in their names. Terms
on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when con¬
ditions favour. ■ Office hours from 12 to 5 o’clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena
for a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner
with the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London : Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size
of those of The Engineer newspaper), strongly and hand¬
somely bound in one, in half calf, red edges. They contain
records relating to Spirtiualism in Great Britain from the end
of the year 1869 to the end of 1872, and ai tides and letters
by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F. Varley, The
Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of how
the Royal Society and British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr.
Crookes’s papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
as the Royal Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery
of lightning conductors. Very scarce. These two volumes
cannot be had separately. Price, carriage paid to any rail¬
way station in the United Kingdom; £1 10s.
London : W. H, Harrison, 38, Groat Russell-street, W.C.
April 25, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., E.R.S.E., Professor a
Chemistry at Edinburgh University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for it8
quality and size, the cheapest large work ever published in
this country in connection with Spiritualism,
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—
Sensations—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep
or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-
Walkers—Phenomena of the bleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over
the Subject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feel¬
ings in the Look and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthful¬
ness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep
Caused by Silent Will ; and at a Distance—Attraction
Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Com¬
mands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations ;
of Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhi¬
bitions of Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the By¬
standers—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Anti¬
pathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision,
without the Eyes—Vision of Near Object: through Opaque
Bodies ; at a Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in
Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.,
Predicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of
the Seer—Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting
Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—
Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of
Speech and of Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—
Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI :—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-
Psychology and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Pheno¬
mena of Suggestions in the Conscious or Waking State—
Dr. Darling’s Method audits Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Besults—The Impressible State—Control Exercised
-by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The
Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The
Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII :—Trance, Natural and Accidental ;
Mesmeric—Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col.
Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not all Impostors—
Luminous Emanations — Extasis often Predicted—M.
Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phre¬
nology—Effects of Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety
in the Phenomena—Suggestions—Sympathy—There are
Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do not
Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible
of Mesmerism—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—
Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph Founded on It.
CELAPTERIX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the
Human Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is
Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the
Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—
Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of Mesmerism-
Physiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insanity,
Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight
is Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena
Attempted or Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally
Diffused, Certaialy ifixists, and is Probably the Medium of
Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of
the Subject—Effects of Odyle— Somnambulisn—Suggestion,
Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Eman¬
ations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid
Perception of the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of
Science—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints
—Conditions of Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure
—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XIIPhenomena Observed in the Conscious
or Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an
Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and With¬
out Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—
Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or
by Concentration—Major Buckley’s .Method—Cases—The
Magic Crystal Induces Waking Lucidity, when Gazed at—
Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep-
Cases—Eight out Of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the
Author Thrown into Mesmeric Slew—Sleep Produced with¬
out the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—
Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathic Clairvoyance in
the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Frank¬
lin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV.;—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travel¬
ling Clairvoyance—Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—
Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—Clairvoyance of
Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV ;—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous
Mesmeric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTER XVI i—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con¬
cluding Remarks, and Summary.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
A MARKED LIFE; or, the Autobiography
XjL of a'Clairvbyante.” By Gipsy.- (Sampson Low and
Co., publishers.) For sale at No. 2, Vernon-plaoe, Blooms-
bury-square. Price 6s.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co„ at the
Holbom Printing-Works, FuUwood’s Rents, High Holhorn,
in the Parish of St.' Andrew-ataove-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W, Adden, Ave
Maua-lan®, London, E.O.
