Regisiebed as a Newspapeb.
^ (DItest Jtbsjgapr wmtectei) ferity Spiritualism i« 6uat ^ritaitr.
No. 400.—(Vol. XVI.—No. 17.) LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY^
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
Iu One Volume, a Series of Fire Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Boole to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVA.TSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, QIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to 11 The Proprietors of 1 The Theosophistj ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, ho argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to-the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The JPvblisher’s Circular,
i, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 23, 1880.
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth, Red Edges.
A CLEBGYMAN ON SPIBITU ALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
ALLAN EAEDEC’S WOBKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubneb and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Crown 8vo., pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science find Religion,
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Fall Mall
Gazette.
London : Tbubneb and Co., Ludgate Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
* Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
ost free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR, Q, E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER;
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stem way Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful .maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow Housk (corner of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 178,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE Any form
Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
kddress. Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 82, Fop-
stone-road, Earls-court, S.W.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red cd&es.
The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
rpo LET FURNISHED, Respect-
JL able and Healthy Apartments, overlooking the
Park. Suitable for two Gentlemen, (Friends or
Brothers), partial Board if required. Terms Moderate.
No Children. Five Minutes from Bus, Tram, or
Kail, 275, Grove Villas, Victoria Park Road, N.E.
References Required.
A RLIS8 ANDREWS, Letterpress,
AjL Copperplate and Lithographio Printer, 31,
Museum Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
from Great Russell Street.
Three doors
A LLEGORICAL SKETCHES,
XJl- The Christmas No. of
“THE BETTER LIFE.”
Price la fid.
ictobia Steam Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.,
r'1HINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Ea1 then ware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street, Bryanston-square, London.
% of % y^ogr^as of % aith of ^piijiiiiafisni.
No. 400.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER SEVENTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 23rd, 18 8 0.
“THE SPIRITUALIST" Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Ni-I Prince Emile de Sayn Witt-
cholas of Russia, Duke of genstein (Wiesbaden)
Leuohtenberg Babon Yon Dibokinok- Holji-
The Lord Lindsay feld (Holstein)
The Right Hon. the Countess J, W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
of Caithness the Supreme Court, New York.
The Baroness Yon Vay, Coun- The Count de Bullet
tess Wiirmbrand (Austria) The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, M. Adelberxh de Bourbon
formerly American Ministerat M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Ishax, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Fbiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hbnsleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
I Dr. George Wyld
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres- W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
ident of the British National M.D., Melbourne
Association of Spiritualists J. C. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
of the Theosophical Society of H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
New York
Mrs. Maxdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
O.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E,
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Babkas, Esq., F.G.S.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Edinburgh Mrs. Showers
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D. William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
D.D. John E. Pubdon, Esq., M.B.,
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I. India
C Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield, William White, Esq.
Didsbury, near Manchester
J. T. Markley, Esq.
Miss Florence Marry at
Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at S3, Museum-street, London; 6, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris : 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Paris!, Yia Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Yilla Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 61, East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.s. ; Beligio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear*
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
MESMERISM.
Of late, as published in these pages, Mr. 8.
ft. Redman, the mesmerist, has been trying a
few experiments for us, in the direction of
attempting to solve the philosophy of the
relationship between certain phases of Spiritu¬
alism and Mesmerism. Accordingly, instead of
the usual plan of repeating elementary experi¬
ments with ever-changing sensitives drawn for
the moment from public audiences, Mr. Redman
has been practising with two sensitives only,
to strengthen the rapport by which he holds
them under control. The result of this, short
as is the time which has elapsed, has been to
develope psychical phenomena of a more
advanced mesmeric order.
For instance, last Monday night he acci¬
dentally discovered that one of his sensitives,
on touching with the fingers of one hand
various parts of his (Mr. Redman’s) body, was
able to see the working of the interior organs.
These experiments were repeated last Tues¬
day at a private mesmeric seance in South
Kensington. The sensitive was sent to sleep
by passes, and with firmly closed eyes com¬
bined with an immoveably placid sleeping
countenance, he was made to touch several of
the observers. He never mistook the right
lung from the left, or the lung or heart of one
person from that of another submitted to his
touch. When the observer before him quietly
turned round, he said that his fingers, which a
moment before were over the heart, were now
over the backbone. He described the motions
of the various organs, their state of health and
their colour, and when pressed to give the
names of some of them he said, a I can’t tell,
I’m not a doctor,” but in a homely manner he
clearly described what he saw. Attempts to
get him to read closed letters or to tell the
contents of packets, were mostly complete
failures, agreeing in this respect with the
phenomena of clairvoyant mediumship, in which
the individual who is developed to see the
interior of the living human frame, is usually
unable to see external inanimate objects, or to
reveal what is taking place in distant localities.
The morality and philosophy of the career
194
THE SPIKITUALIST.
April 23, 1880.
of an individual who submits himself regularly
to the powers of an embodied mesmerist,
deserves attention, and in the most fully re¬
corded case with which we are acquainted,
namely, that of Andrew Jackson Davis, “the
Poughkeepsie seer,” the prospect is pleasing
rather than otherwise. He became a far
superior man under mesmeric influence than
there is reason to suppose he would have been
under ordinary conditions. The character of
the mesmerist may or may not have been the
greatest factor in the production of the pleasing
result. All the details of the effects of pro¬
longed mesmerism upon Andrew Jackson
Davis, will be found in his interesting auto¬
biography, The Magic Staff. He says that
for the first few years he had no recollection
of his spiritual experiences while under the
mesmeric influence, but that afterwards the
memory of them came suddenly into his
normal consciousness. The following is a
part of his description of his first inspection of
the interior mechanism of the human frame:—
I knew then of no language which could describe my
perceptions: hence I did not yield the slightest ex¬
clamation, nor attempt an utterance; but continued to
observe, as one in solitude, with a feeling of unutterable
joy and holy reverence. A few moments more, dear
reader, and I not only beheld the exteriors of the indi¬
viduals in that room—clothed with light as it were—but
I also as easily perceived their interiors, and then, too,
the hidden sources of those luminous mesmeric
emanations. In my natural or ordinary state, remember,
I had never seen the organs of the human viscera; but
now I could see all the organs and their functions—the
liver, the spleen, the heart, the lungs, the brain—all
with the greatest possible ease. The whole body was
transparent as a sheet of glass! It was invested with
a strange, rich, spiritual beauty. It looked illuminated
as a city. Every separate organ had several centres of
light, besides being enveloped by a general sphere
peculiar to itself. And I did not see the physical organ
only, but its form, aspect, and color also, simply by
observing the peculiar emanations surrounding it. For
example : I saw the heart—surrounded by one general
combination of living colors—with special points of
illumination interspersed. The auricles and ventricles,
together with their orifices, gave out distinct flames of
light; and the pericardium was a garment of mesmeric
life, surrounding and protecting the heart while in the
performance of its functions. The pulmonary or re-
spitorial department was also illuminated with beautiful
flames, but of different magnitude and color. The
various air-chambers seemed like so many chemical
laboratories. The fire in them wrought instantaneous
chemical changes in the blood that flowed through the
contiguous membranes; and the great sympathetic
nerve, whose roots extend throughout the lower viscera,
and whose topmost branches are lost in the superior
strata of the sensorium, appeared like a column of life,
interwoven and super-blended with a soft and silvery
fire.
SpiritijaiiIsm has been somewhat depressing of
late in its public aspects, but making great strides
in private.
kf A MAHOGANY “FAMILIAR.”
{From “ The Daily News” April 16th, 1880.)
An entirely new view of table-turning by a
|(i distinguished French playwright is sure to be
j?| amusing, and may be instructive. The fact,
1)1 therefore, that so eminent a writer as M. Eugene
Isj Nus has just come forward as a witness to
Kj some phenomena of a novel and remarkable
|?j sort will probably again popularise a subject
oj which has hitherto smacked too much of sacri-
Kj lege on the one hand and of catchpenny on
Kj the other to attract attention from many re-
> spectable persons. M. Nus narrates with
m astonishing humour and vivacity how he and
Kj the rest of the staff of the Liberal newspaper,
Kj being thrown out of employment by the Coup
j TEtat, were amusing themselves at an old
])j house in the Rue de Baune when the conversa-
sj tion happened to turn upon table-turning, then
c a new fancy from America, which they con-
j sidered as vanity. Nevertheless they tried
j their hands at it for lack of something to do,
j and a round table at which they were seated
j almost immediately made signs of animation,
j M. Nus gives a list of his companions. They
j are all men who bear well-known names in
literature, and who occupy a prominent place
i in the most sceptical society in the world.
! This was in 1853. M. Nus was then thirty-
j seven years of age, in the prime and vigour
| of his intellect. He is now sixty-four, and
j he has been studying the truths revealed to
j him ever since, keeping a faithful record of
j his experience. The conversations which he
: has chronicled between the round table and
j the select party of French gentlemen above-
j mentioned are extremely entertaining. They
j had no reverence whatever for the article of
j furniture which had abruptly manifested such
j unexpected qualities, and they seem to have
j treated it throughout their investigations as an
j intelligent poodle dog. “ Aliens,” they say
R on one occasion to the table, when it has not
Kj made its meaning sufficiently clear, “ you have
>j been diddling us.” “ Not a bit of it,”
j answers the table demurely, and it turns out
i to be in the right as usual. Another time,
when the table has set the celebrated musician
I Allyre Bureau (who was one of the party)
j rather too hard a task, that inquirer bids it
<| “ Go to the deuce.” “ Lazybones ! ” answers
a the table.
It is obvious that searchers after truth who
S conduct their operations in this manner cannot
; be regarded as fanatics ; and it is only just to
| both sides in the discussion to remark that
>j what has been sometimes called Spiritualism
April 23, 1880.
THE SPI
has never been handled in this way before.
M. Nns and his friends, however, are perfectly
in earnest. They are very droll; but they are
never flippant. When they are bored they tell
the table very frankly the state of their feel¬
ings, and scold it roundly. Sometimes the table
scolds back again ; sometimes it rebukes them
in stem and even awful language. M. Nus
relates these occurrences simply as they hap¬
pened, without exaggeration and without rho-
domontade. His logic is inexorable. When
the table begins to discourse vaguely he recalls
it at once to reason; the mingled humour and
sound sense of his deductions are most notable.
He does not assert that there is anything at all
supernatural in what he has seen and heard; he
merely submits to public judgment the ques¬
tion whether mankind is not on the eve of dis¬
covering a new and hitherto unsuspected force
in nature. He argues with the table, not as a
spirit from another world, or an emanation
from the Divinity, but as a something, he
knows not what, which may be either right or
wrong both in its premises and its conclusions.
What M. Nus practically says to his readers
is merely this: “ Here are certain facts; ex¬
amine them fairly. I merely vouch that
they are genuine. I do not say that they
are good or bad, because I do not know.”
<f (Test le plus grand nouveautd de nos jours,”
he observes dispassionately, and he thinks that
it invites cooler examination than has yet been
accorded to it. His table is also of the same
opinion; it has not the least objection to be
looked into, and indeed recommends the dili*
gent study of shorthand writing as the most
convenient means of preserving the result of
any special interrogatories addressed to it. The
phenomenon of table-turning also, remarks M.
Nus, is interesting, if only because it is
strange to us; whether it will turn out to be
important is another affair altogether.
In order to facilitate future researches M.
Nus candidly asked his mahogany familiar
whether it was not prepared to recommend
a system of stenography better adapted for
this purpose than any at present in use; but
the table unfortunately replied that it was
not there to work miracles. u No conjuring,”
were the precise words of its reply. M. Nus
had too much experience of its capricious and
uncertain temper to press the question: for
he relates that when he has previously done
so, the wooden oracle has expressed itself in a
torrent of rigmarole, even going so far as to
break one of its own legs in a fit of nervous
irritation when persistently badgered. Never-
E I TXT A LI ST. 195
j)j theless, at other times it is rather too com-
is municative, repeating the same message a
! dozen times with a fantastic play upon words.
It has then sometimes become the turn of its
! hearers to be annoyed by an exasperation of
the nerves, and M. Nus has found himself
; constrained to use disrespectful language to¬
wards his associate. Other persons also per¬
mitted themselves to request the table to “ shut
up ” when it was chattering foolishly; and the
I oracle, apparently fearful of rude treatment,
: then cried out in a warning voice, u No larks.”
: Otherwise, and as a general rule, the manners
| of the mahogany world are courteous and
I well-bred. It appears, from other portions of
M. Nus’s narrative, that tables are all accom¬
plished linguists, scholars of far more vast and
| various reading than those who interrogate
: them, and that they compose music which has
been played with applause before such judges
of the fine arts as M. Emile de Girardin.
Indeed, M. Nus, whose own testimony is
sufficient, supports his statements by witnesses
of unquestionable veracity, bearing names
which are household words in France. The
| only problem ho leaves unsolved is, “ How it
all happened ? ” He is far too matter of fact
: a person to suppose that the most solemn
| mysteries of life and eternity have been ex-
: plained after a grotesque and monstrous
; fashion by a piece of wood. He has no faith
i whatever in a new religion expounded by a
| round table, with raps and knocks for saints
; and prophets. But he protests that it is
I vexatious to be constantly called an idiot or a
i visionary by the beadles of the temple of
| science for believing in the evidence of his
■ own eyes and ears. In conclusion, he
dedicates his delightful volume to all those
I faculties, academies, corporations, and grave
doctors of philosophy who have opposed new
i discoveries in science since the earliest dawn
!>j of civilisation.
 <» ■ — y
THE ABBOTSFOED GHOST.
! BY HENRY O. ATKINSON F.G.8., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO
HISS MARTINEAU.”
I do not find Mr. Morrison referred to in the
life of Scott, nor is the name in the very
; copious index. By the account he was at the
time a new acquaintance, and what the degree
of intimacy afterwards is of small consequence.
Terry was not an “ old literary friend ” of
Scott’s as Mr. Campbell supposes; he was not
“ Terry, the London litterateur, living in the
midst of a society, &c.” but Terry, the cele-
brated actor. This Terry, of the Adelphi
! Theatre was, like Charles Matthews, brought up
196
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apbiii 23, 1880.
as an architect, but, as with Matthews, the
special turn of his genius would not he sup¬
pressed. He was a fellow-student with my
father, and they remained friends to the last.
The only literary work of Terry that I ever
heard of, was the arranging, with assistance,
some of Scott’s novels for the stage, Scott, as
he says, having no talent or special knowledge
that way. Scott said “ Avowedly, I will never
write for the stage; if I do ‘ call me horse?
And indeed I feel severely the want of know¬
ledge of theatrical business and effect.” This
to be recalled when compared with Shakspere.
Of my godfather, George Bullock, I may have
more to say as bearing on the occurrence in
question, when I have the pleasure of being
acquainted with Mr. Campbell’s promised
solution, and perhaps Mr. Campbell will turn
to the Legend of Montrose, where the redoubted
and immortal Dugal figures, and give us the
conversation of the two supposed seers, as to
how in each the fit came on, no doubt taken
from some work or record. The White Lady
of Avenal is clearly an extravaganza, and
intended to be so, yet, the singing down the
stream is charming, but the grave affair is, I
fancy, rather beyond the belief of the most
advanced Spiritualists. However, no doubt
there are still remaining more things than are
dreamt of in the philosophic dreams of even
Mr. W. H. Harrison, in the highest flights of his
excellent fancy.
Boiilogne-sur-Mer.
 ♦ 
ASTROLOGY.
BT 0. 0. MASSEY.
Those of your readers who are interested in
Astrology would do well to peruse an article
in the University \Magazine for March, 1880,
entitled u The Soul and the Stars,” by Mr. A.
G. Trent. I am indebted for the reference to
the current number of Urania, * an astrological
monthly, recently established. The writer
commences with an allusion to a discussion
which has been carried on in the pages of that
magazine on Traducianism and Metempsy¬
chosis. But the chief value of the article
appears to consist in the evidence adduced of
astral influences, evidence the force of which
I think no unprejudiced person will deny.
Twenty-three instances are given of notorious
persons who have become insane, and in the
nativity of each is found the Zodiacal
“ affliction ” of the Moon or Mercury (usually
both) which astrologically denotes the danger
of mental disease. The aspects to the Moon
iH are less to be regarded in these cases, as the
j)! hour not being given, her Zodiacal position
kI at birth cannot be ascertained within ati
|?| average of 6°, which would be about the
p; variation in the 12 hours before and after
! noon. Mercury’s motion in the Zodiac during
I the day Would not affect the aspects given for
| noon, and in 21 of the 23 cases Mercury is
| il afflicted.” How I imagine that the number
)i of conspicuous persons'who have become insane,
i and whose birthdays are known, would not
>| greatly exceed this list, or leave many cases
)| unaccounted for. An induction must not be
!l founded upon selected instances, leaving non-
! accordant cases out of sight, but when a
|)j particular class of person is exhausted (as in
> this enumeration, probably, which contains
>! nine instances of sovereigns, and ten of men
II of genius, who became insane, and whoso
I birthdays are known), the presumption of a
! connection between the planetary positions
J and the event is almost as great as that arising
:j from a coincidence universally observed, at
)j least until contradictory instances are adduced.
>j That is to say, in the nativity of any other
)j insane person we should confidently expect to
! find a similar indication. It may happen that
i some of your readers are able to supply the
> time and place of birth of persons thus af-
Ri flicted, and should it be found on inspection
?! of the nativity in such a case, so produced, as
> it were, at random, and free from all suspicion
! of its being adduced just because it was an
(j accordant one, that similar indications are
j present, this would be a fact in the highest
|>j degree corroborative.
Temple, April 17th.
 »
THE LIFE OF SELF-SACRIFICE.
Last Sunday night, Dr. George "Wyld de-
a livered a deeply religious and high-toned
I address to the Marylebone Association of
>| Spiritualism, on “ The Life of Sister Dora at
j<j Walsall Hospital.” A charge is sometimes
<1 brought against Spiritualism that in its ranks
> we cannot point to any life of self-abnegation
J and self-sacrifice, like those which in some
Kj instances are to be met with inside some of
Kj the orthodox sects, where individuals have
?| been set on fire by coals from the altar of re-
)| ligious enthusiasm. Perhaps the minds of the
K| most religious Spiritualists are too well balanced
k| to go to the extremes displayed by those de-
;j votees whose enthusiasm almost accidentally
is! leads them in the one case into the useless
Kj laceration of the marvellous mechanism of the
Si human body with saws and knives, or in the
*Simpkm, Marshall & Co., 4, Stationers’ Hall Court, Price 6d.
April 23, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
197
other into the self-sacrifice of intensely useful
and good works, like those of Sister Dora. In
the present state of advanced civilisation, there
is less rational necessity for extremes in such
matters. Dr. Wyld, among other facts, told
how Sister Dora would endure for hours, an
infectious nauseous atmosphere of disease,
which doctors and all others could bear but for
a few minutes, and how she seemed endowed
with the strength of two or more men, in
carrying the bodies of dead patients to the
mortuary. From her spiritual nature, she
appears thus to have had bodily powers not pos¬
sessed by other mortals.
Mr. Dale said at the close of Dr. "Wyld’s
address, that the very uphill and difficult work
of carrying on the Association in Marylebone
occasionally became so oppressive, that he often
thought ho could perform it no longer, but that
the circumstances narrated by Dr. Wyld en¬
couraged him not to give it up just yet
 ^ 
tempubrnt
[Great freedom it given to correspondents, who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. 'Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY.
Sir,—Those Spiritualists who are troubled with fits
of indigestion and dangerous crises thereof, may learn
with sanitary advantage that a correspondent at Ham¬
burg, where Mrs. and Mr. Herne have been giving
tiancet, suggests, that the corpulence (probably in¬
creased by good eating in Hamburg) of Mrs. Herne
might be artificial, and by secret windpipes admit of
her appearing in different dimensions (including I pre¬
sume, the fourth) according to wont. Of such upsets of
reason I hope to learn more. 0. Reimers.
MR. E. W. WALLIS.
Sir,—Allow me to appeal to your readers on behalf
of our friend and brother, E. W. Wallis. I am sorry
to say he is so far reduced pecuniarily that he is in need
of immediate help. His wife and children have been
suffering—all together—from' an attack of measles.
He has had to neglect his engagements to return home
to nurse his family.
In consequence of the long term of bad trade during
the winter season, his engagements have not been at all
remunerative; at Truro he was money out of pocket
besides suffering much persecution from the people
while there, and in consequence of Truro being so great
a failure, he lost a fortnight's engagement in Cornwall.
With the anxiety of domestic affliction, and the
worry because of the failure of his engagements, he is
almost broken down in spirit and body. Last Friday
evening he left home for Keighley and could scarcely
walk : he has sent home saying he is very ill.
Seeing his immediate need of help, and knowing his
worthiness, many of his friends are anxious to raise the
sum of £50 to present to him as a testimonial. His
worth is well known all over the country, and in making
this appeal, his friends feel that it will have a hearty
and immediate response.
Ui Donations have been already received as follows :
Glasgow Association of Spiritualists, £4; “ Phil-
!<>j adelphia,” £3 ; A Friend, Glasgow, £3 ; Three Friends,
R Newcastle, £2; J. J. Morse, London, £1 10s.; Miss H.
i)i Blundell, Manchester, £1 ; Mr. R. Fitton, £1 ; L. J. L.,
I £l; Mr. Dale (goods), 15s.; Mr. W. Yates, Nottingham,
10s.; J. A. H & T. B., Nottingham, 10s.; Mr. J.
; Hawkins, London, 5s.; “Omega,” Devonport, 5s.;
}<! Mr. D. Brown, 2s.
Donations will be thankfully received by
W. Yates, Hon. See.
]( 33, Lower Talbot Street, Nottingham.
THE DEATH OE MR. ANDREWS.
Sir,—Since I wrote last week I naturally felt inclined to
inquire after the state of affairs as regards Mr. Andrews’
| widow. Although I anticipated distress from a sad
' i confession to me of troubles by the deceased some years
I ago, as the outcome of constant struggles, the present
i comparatively limited amount of debts is highly
creditable to the carefulness of both Mr. and Mrs.
Andrews, but still calls upon us for substantial proof of
| sympathy. If the duty of relieving the widow from un-
| deserved anxieties will induce only a certain number of
personal friends to contribute a share, the preservation
j of conditions which facilitate the highly useful and im¬
portant work of one of our most prominent mediums,
Mr. Williams, might draw a still larger number of sub-
jf scribers.
I regret, for my part, not to be able to contribute
l what I should like, but hope that a favorable change in
my material circumstances will enable me to repeat in
I due time my present donation of £ 1 Is.
C. Reimers.
(j 6, Manor Villas, Richmond, Surrey.
THE MATTHEWS CASE.
Sir,—I quite agree with you that the local Spiritualists
at Keighley, if anybody, are to blame rather than Mr.
| Matthews’ friends in other parts of the country, for any
jq dilatoriness which might have been shown in obtaining
| public men or persons of standing to speak to Mr.
i Matthews’ character, and also as to the conditions ap-
m pertaining to clairvoyance. Whilst Mr. Matthews is
an undoubted clairvoyant of good and even astonishing
i powers, he sometimes fails entirely. In a stay of two
id or three days in this town last summer, he did good
work. He gave some remarkable tests to persons in
s)j my family, and also to others in the town. I for one
id under the circumstances, if I had known in time, and
I thought that I could have done poor Matthews any
] service, would have gone over to Keighley. The first I
Kj knew of the matter was however through a paragraph
/ in a newspaper, and the next thing to my surprise and
kj deep regret was to be apprised by a friend in Darlington,
K who had received a Keighley paper, that Mr. Matthews
i)j was incarcerated in prison.
I should be willing, indeed anxious to join in any
movement to release Mr. Matthews from durance, but I
i fear that it would prove of but little avail in the present
state of the law. What however should be done is for
l Spiritualists to endeavour to obtain an alteration of the
j< law bearing on such cases as Slade’s and Matthews’.
K * If this cannot be brought about, or pending its ac-
) complishment, legal gentlemen, of whom there are
k numbers connected with the Spiritual movement, should
); be induced to consider and formulate a method whereby
id mediums who give stances in return for a money con-
Kj sideration should be protected from the raids of the
vicious or ignorant.
Mark Fooks, Journalist.
K| 2, Hume Terrace, Darlington, April 15, 1880.
198
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Afeul 231880
A PRIVATE SEANCE. !5.
At a seance held on Thursday, last week, at l>
the residence of Captain John James, 129, ]>
Gower Street, London, Mr. James Husk was k
the medium. |
At one part of the seance, while Captain j>
James and his guests were sitting round a >
table in the dark, and Mr. Husk’s hands were |<
firmly held by the sitters on either side of him, R
an arm chair floated oyer his head and then |>
settled gently upon the top of the table. In |S
doing so, there was barely room for it to pass K
between the glass globes of the chandelier and R
the top surface of the table. Directly after- |>
wards, Mr. Husk was instantaneously floated K
into the chair on the table, without striking K
the chandelier. A light was struck, and he R
was seen seated in the arm-chair on the top of j>
the table, with his arms bent backwards, and H
two of Captain James’s guests still grasping |<
his hands.
Mr. James Husk, who is well known to the
frequenters of Mrs. Woodforde’s seances, suffers K
from the affliction of partial blindness to such k
an extent that he can with difficulty go j
about by himself in neighbourhoods to which !j
he is unaccustomed.
    :(
Smrituaijsm has been somewhat depressing of late K
in its public aspects, but making great strides in private, i)
Spiiiittjalism in Prance.—'An important anniversary k
occurred a few days ago ; the disciples and admirers of i)
Allen Kardec paid a visit to his tomb, and had a chat R
with him on extra-mundane affairs. The odd circum- K
stance is, why they do not rap him up, summon him to j)
attend at an annual meeting of his followers—for the R
latter, despite all ridicule and exposure, number 15,000 K
in Paris, so inherent is the thirst for mystery in our |>
nature. The Spiritualists, too, have a publishing office i)
in the Rue de Lille, and a large meeting house near js
Batignolles, where stances take place several times a i/
week. A burning and shining light not long ago died k
—insane; and the cause felt the death of M. Hennequin ! >
severely. Considering the peculiar circumstances con- R
nected with his departure for the spirit world, no js
medium has ever resuscitated him; yet it would be j)
interesting to know the condition of lunatics. The l(
dramatist Nus relates wonderful things about the j)
spirits, and believes them also; thus daisies are often j)
plucked on the floor of the meeting house at Batig- k
nolles ; spirits plead they have been robbed and turn j>
their pockets inside out to support their assertion; R
another asserts he is certain he is dead because he has j (
witnessed his own funeral. Mme. Thierret, who made j;
us all laugh so much during her lifetime, appears when | (
called on, and relates to the gaping audience that she | S
“ is very happy, and is ever surrounded with angels,” j)
friends will please accept this notice. Alexandre js
pere shakes hands with those present, and then R
disappears laughing—a fact quite natural—he too ought I (
to be happy, since his son has paid not only his own, i)
but his papa’s debts. Luther evidently was wrong R
When he observed of the tenants of a grave yard, “I is
envy them, because they repose.”—Nottingham Express, R
April 10th, -1880.
The National Association of Spiritualists having
taken up the case of Mr. Matthews, we do not think it
necessary, as had been proposed, that a meeting should
be called as in the initiation of the Slade defence.
For a long time the more ignorant of the public have
been explaining away the phenomena of Spiritualism
as “ all mesmerism,” they having previously as strenu¬
ously tabooed mesmerism. Under these circumstance
it would be as well now to show them many of those
mesmeric phenomena in which they in advance profess
such deep faith.
Pi/otocratio Superstition.— One of the little known
figurants in Parisian life is the hunchback at the Bourse.
He may be seen daily shambling his way on crutches
through the crowd that haunts the sacred precincts of
the Paris Stock Exchange, and as speculators are a
superstitious class, one of them at a time may be seen
slyly to approach the deformed one, and to rub the
palm of his hand over the hump, which, it is said, has
the virtue of bringing good luck to the one who touches
it after this manner. The poor cripple has, says the
Continental Gazette, nothing better to do all day than
pander to the notions of the fickle crew at the Bourse,
and he doubtless makes a good living by it. It is
indeed a comical sight to see the lame man, when he
eyes an old customer, hobble up on his crutches, and
serenely turn his hump round to be stroked by the
wealthy financier, who at once makes off and is lost in
the surrounding crowd.—The London Figaro.
A Remarkable Presentiment.—The following is
taken from the Rev. GK R. GHeig’s “Sale’s Brigade in
Afghanistan,” in which is described the former massacre
of Cabul. The rev. gentleman was stationed at the
time with the troops at Jelalabad:—On the 13th
January, 1842, one of the sentinels on that part of the
wall which faced Gundamuck and the road from Cabul
called aloud that he saw a man in the distance. In a
moment glasses were levelled in this direction, and
there, sure enough, could be distinguished, leaning
rather than sitting upon a miserable pony, a European,
faint, as it seemed, from travel, if not sick, or perhaps
wounded. It is impossible to describe the sort of thrill
which ran through the men’s veins as they watched the
movements of the stranger. Slowly he approached ;
and, strange as it may appear, it is nevertheless true,
that Colonel Dennie foretold the nature of the tidings
of which he was the bearer; for it is a fact, which
every surviving officer of the 13th will vouch for, that
almost from the first Colonel Dennie had boded ill of
the force left in Cabul; and that subsequently to the
receipt of the earliest intelligence which told of the
warfare in which they were engaged and of the dis¬
astrous results to which it led, he repeatedly declared
his conviction that to a man the army would be des¬
troyed. His words were, “ You’ll see. Not a soul will
escape from Cabul except one man; and he will come
to tell us that the rest are destroyed.” Under such
circumstances it is very little to be wondered at if
men’s blood curdled while they watched the advance of
the solitary horseman ; and the voice of Dennie sounded
like the response of an oracle when he exclaimed,
“ Did I not say so ? Here comes the messenger.”
Colonel Dennie spoke the truth. An escort of cavalry
being sent out to meet the traveller, he was brought in
bleeding and faint, and covered with wounds ; grasping
in his right hand the hilt and a small fragment of a
sword which had broken in the terrible conflict from
which he had come. He proved to be Dr. Brydon,
whose escape from the scene of slaughter had been
marvellous, and who at the moment believed himself
to be and was regarded by others, as the sole survivor
of General Elphinstone’s once magnificent little army.
199
April 23, 1880. THE SPIEITUALIST.
NEW PSYCHICAL EXPERIMENTS. )?!
BY ROBERT FRIESE, PH. D. Kj
A wooden ball of six to seven centimeters l?|
diameter, attached to a thread or a horse-hair |>j
of one meter, and suspended as a pendulum, jsj
will follow the hands of a good physical me- K
dium, after having been held for about a I;
minute in his grasp. After many experiments, |S
I discovered that one of my mediums, holding K
her hands at a distance of ten cm. from the R
ball, was capable of causing the pendulum to |)
follow her hands to an angle of 35°.
As I have not yet met with any other person : >
who seemed to exert anything like such an in- k
fluence on this pendulum, I think I may be j/
justified in attributing this attractive power to |)
her mediumship, and we may be enabled to |<
compare the power of two or more mediums by R
the number of degrees in the angle of diverg- j>
ence from the perpendicular, supposing the K
weight of the ball used to be always fifty <
grammes. I call it a medium-meter.
Second experiment. When this pendulum, R
after having been charged with power from |>
the medium for one minute, is hanging per- 1'
pendicularly, a spirit is able to throw it with j
considerable force out of its position, and cause j!
it to oscillate, if the medium’s hands are placed j
right and left at about 10 cm. distance. He R
can give it any required direction, except from |
hand to hand, as the attractive powers seem to I
be equal; but if both the hands are placed on |
one side of the ball, the spirit can give it any I
direction. A pendulum of 176 grammes was ;
thus jerked by mere will-power of a spirit to an |
angle of 40Q.
I should feel much obliged to any of your K
readers who would repeat these experiments, R
as we in Germany are very much in want of R
good physical mediums.
Breslau.
A SEANCE WITH MR. EGLINTON AT LEIPSIC.* R|
BY G. C. WITTIG.
On the 19 th March, the writer and a party Rj
of six other persons (four ladies and two \)\
gentlemen) were invited by Baron Oscar Yon jSi
Hofiman, in Leipsic, to a dark stance, in order Kj
to witness the phenomena, to be evoked Rj
through this medium, who is already known in Rj
different parts of Germany. The stance was Rj
held at half-past ten in the morning in the K|
Baron’s residence on the Bossplatz at Leipsic— Rj
a house of the first quality, and detached on Rj
all sides.
The medium had been already enjoying the jq
hospitality of our host for a fori night, and had
daily given two, and occasionally even three,
seances to the family, friends, and acquaintances
of Herr Yon Hoffman, Professor Zollner in
particular being present at them. We under¬
stand that the results had been most highly
satisfactory throughout, only confirming
earlier statements of a marvellous description.
Of the circle now assembled, besides Baron
Yon Hoffman and the writer, two were gentle¬
men of the Spiritualistic persuasion, two of
the ladies were themselves mediumistic,
another was an investigator, and the fourth
was the respected mother of our host. So it
was to be expected that with the utmost
passivity the first and single sitting of this
circle could afford a number of remarkable
phenomena, if not those most extraordinary
manifestations of the preceding sittings, com¬
prising especially materialisations, levitations,
and the display of lights, concerning which
information will be given at another time.
The medium, who was introduced to us
before the seance, was of a middle size, compact,
appeared to be well nurtured, and of full face,
but betrayed a certain harassed condition
(Angegriffensein) by his somewhat wan com¬
plexion. The arrangements were carried out
in the Baron’s study, which is a corner room
of the house with only one window; a large
oblong dinner table was brought in, and we
were seated on cane chairs, the medium with
his back to the window; the two medium¬
istic ladies were one on each side of him,
holding his hands, then two gentlemen next
these ladies, then a lady and again a gentleman
vis-a-vis, and lastly Baron Y. H., with his
mother, opposite the medium at the narrow
end of the table, which was about two meters
long.
Baron Y. H. had placed on the middle of
the table a musical box of about 22 lbs.
weight, locked it, and laid the key on the
table in front of me. I proved the weight of
the box myself; I could only raise and move
it with some exertion. On the box a sheet
of paper was laid, the Baron having torn off
a corner and put it in his pocket, to prove the
identity of the sheet later on ; a pencil, three
glass tubes, with several undulatory con¬
cavities which were partly filled with quick¬
silver, and then the air being pumped out,
were molten to, so that being shaken in the
dark they gave light: and a hand-bell were
also on the table. Before the beginning of
the stance Baron Y. H. had desired us to
search his room closely in every corner to be
* Translated from Psychic Studies, April, 1880.
200 THE S P I HI
sure that no confederate Was concealed in it, \(\
which, there certainly was not; he also called |]|
attention to the high ceiling of the room, there i>l
being only one word written on it in pencil, Kj
which had come there at a former seance, when K!
the medium was levitated up to the ceiling, and Rl
he requested me to secure the doors of the m
room by pasting on strips of paper. There |s!
was a light folding door, which led to the jcj
range of other apartments, and near it a m
lower door of exit on to the front halL I !)j
pasted both with freshly gummed strips, on |s|
which I had written my name, so that on the !<j
entrance of a strange person these strips must P
be ruptured; moreover, both doors were locked j ; j
on the inside. After these precautions were |s
taken, Baron Y. H. lit a candle, closed the outer K
shutters, and so darkened the room. Between \\\
shutters and Windows he put a large dark nj
cloth, to exclude light from crannies, closed <j
the window, let down the blinds, and further k
drew the heavy dark curtains from both sides m
fastened together in the middle of the window, pj
with only a small opening above. At first, U\
when the candle was extinguished, the room u
seemed almost absolutely dark; only after |; |
some time the writer and one of the ladies Hi
saw a very faint shimmer of light at the upper !; |
part of the window, from the side and upper |
crevices of the shutter, which were not com- Pj
pletely stopped. This sensibility to light of j;
my eye, armed as it was with a sharp concave hj
pair of spectacles (No 8), shows the following Iq
phenomena of light, which the writer did not i:j
himself see, to have been of a nature at least j;l
peculiar.
Hereupon the so-called chain of interlinked j
hands was laid oh the table, the hand of each, j)j
right and left, completely covering that of pj
his neighbour, or was by his neighbour’s <j
covered and in contact. The two ladies sitting k.
at the sides of the medium, one of whom was |>j
on my left, held the medium’s hands firmly, j)j
being instructed under no circumstances to let k|
them loose, so we sat all together with the j?|
medium nine persons, and told each other pi
without constraint or embarrassment whatever hi
occurred to or was observed by us.
The writer, notwithstanding the expectation jq
awakened in him that he was about to ex- pi
perience something remarkable, was quite pj
quiet and composed, and perfectly qualified j<
for objective observation. He wished to let kj
these phenomena, of which he had as yet no pj
personal experience, come of themselves, and pj
to observe them in the most deliberate j<|
manner.
T U A L I S T. Amul 23, 1880.
The seance began at eleven o’clock. The
medium desired the circle not to be alarmed at
anything, and the ladies holding him, in case
he should be levitated, to follow him as far as
possible by standing on chairs, and only then
to let go. Baron Yon Hoffmann was the faith¬
ful interpreter of this wish, which was
expressed in English.
In about five minutes I heard the medium
breathing deeply, and almost as if sighing.
The company continued talking, but less
loudly, and were already observant. At
length there began a gentle rapping on the
table near the lady sitting on the Baron’s
right. This signified the beginning of the
phenomena. The medium spoke suddenly in
trance, with a quite altered voice, and in a
high falsetto ; “ Joey,” the supposed con¬
trolling spirit said that the company was
variously compounded and not quite harmon¬
ious in all necessary conditions, yet he and his
spirits would try what could be done; all
present were to keep themselves quiet and not
be afraid that the obj ects which would soon be
moved about them would hurt anyone.
Scarcely had Baron Y. H. translated this
communication, when suddenly a strange clat¬
ter was heard on the table in front of us. It
was as if many hands were rummaging about
on it. It is impossible to describe quite
exactly in their actual sequence the quick suc¬
cession of phenomena which now ensued. First
the bell which stood on the table was taken up,
and hovered high up in the air, ringing dis¬
tinctly. Almost at the same time the glass
tubes of quicksilver were raised and floated
about, glittering and glistening, over our heads,
but also outside the circle, high up to the
window. Suddenly we heard the pencil seized,
and quick, distinct scribbling on the sheet of
paper laid on the music box. Then the key
lying in front of me was taken, the lock of the
box was felt for, the key was inserted and
turned, the box was opened, wound up, and
began to play. In reply to my repeated ques¬
tions, I was assured by both the ladies next the
medium that they were both holding his hands.
For the medium to have got his hands into the
music box in the middle of the long table, he
must have stood up and bent over it, which
would certainly have been detected by me and
by my neighbour on the left. But he remained
in the chair, still breathing heavily, and in
the pauses was heard sighing and writhing.
While the musical box was still playing, we
heard outside the circle at our table, a noise at
a side table in the back of the room, to the
201
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 28, 1880.
right of the window, where Baron V. H. had
placed a guitar packed in a card-board box,
wrapped in packing paper and corded. "We
plainly heard this being uncorded and nnwrapt;
the box was opened, the guitar was taken out
tinkling, and hovered about here and there,
playing an air over our heads, which were
gently knocked with the back of it. The
guitar box was also knocked about the heads
of the circle, and having touched me on the
face was finally laid down in front of me.
Those of the company who sat at the other
end of the table now saw lights, which the
writer could not see, probably because the
cover of the open musical box in front of him
intercepted his view; among a number of
hovering lights was said to be a golden cross,
which emitted rays. But the quicksilver tubes
flew up from the table, repeatedly, and whizzed
glittering about the room, always returning
again to the table. When the musical box had
played itself out, the cover was clapped to, and
we heard first a muffled voice as if out of the
box, but then through a paper tube, just in the
middle of the table, more than a metre* from
the audibly breathing medium. The guitar
was again raised, and hovered over our heads,
playing the same monotonous air.
Hereupon the spirit “ Joey ” said through
the medium we were not to be afraid of an
accident with the musical box ; for this was now
caught up again by invisible hands, and was
hovering about high up in the room, playing
again, and touched me softly but perceptibly
on the forehead. My neighbour assured me
that she had not let go the hand of the medium,
whom we heard continually breathing and
groaning. It had an absolutely magical effect
to hear this heavy musical box, weighing 221bs.,
playing floating above us. This hovering to
and fro was repeated three times; then the box
was set dotvn again on the middle of the table.
Meantime hands began touching me on the
back, head and knees, as also the others. One
of these touchings was peculiar. I had quite
covered my neighbour’s right hand with my
left. Suddenly, I felt the finger of an in¬
visible hand feel about on the surface of my
left hand, and, as it were, penetrating through
my hand, knock on the surface of my neigh¬
bour’s hand, covered by me, the first declaring
to me that she was touched. It was thus
a case of the penetration of force through
organic matter; or if one likes to regard the
invisible hand as suddenly concentrated matter,
a case of the so incredible sounding reciprocal
M passage of matter through matter. I had
s| however, little time for reflection ; for Mr
h Eglinton began to rise from his chair, groan-
>| ing, or rather the chair was drawn away from
Si him as he sat. We heard the movement
<1 of a heavy settee which was in the room.
(| The lady on my left had to get up, and
I raise her left arm high up, holding Mr.
| Eglinton’s hand, which, as appeared from what
sj was said, was at the same time the case with
<1 the lady holding him on the other side. Mr.
?! Eglinton kept rising higher ; the lady between
>| him and me had to get on her chair, and I was
s| obliged to stand up. The lady's right hand
<! carried my left hand, holding it to the soles
)| of Mr. Eglinton’s boots, which were hovering
si about a foot high over the table* But he
si rose no higher. I ascertained this accurately.
<1 Next moment the lady complained of a sudden
?j pressure of something fearfully heavy on her
left shoulder, and again carried my left hand
! linked with hers to the place, and behold, there
(\ was the settee, stuffed with leather, andweigh-
?! ing 33 lbs., which we had before heard moved
)| from the corner of the room, and which was
si burdening my neighbour in this way. I
?! plainly felt the leather of the settee at the
?! edge of the seat, and one of its legs. The
?! weight was heavy, so that the lady begged for
?! help. Baron Y. H. forthwith struck a light,
<| and we then saw the lady standing, but the
?| medium apparently in a deep sleep, sitting
?! huddled up, with both hands fast held at the
?| table, on this same settee which had pressed
?| so heavily on the lady. This was a finale
?| wholly unexpected by me. I supposed the
?! medium to be still standing or at least kneel-
sj ing on the table. The light disturbed the
?! sleeping and deeply breathing medium, he
?! gradually revived, rubbed his eyes, and awoke,
?! quite pallid and exhausted, and full of surprise
?l at the company about him.
Baron Yon Hoffman now let in the daylight.
?! It was half-past eleven o’clock; on the table
! stood the closed musical box with the key still
?! sticking in it. The cardboard box and the
?! guitar, and the other objects were also there.
?! The sheet of paper fitted exactly to the torn
?! off corner, and on it was the name “Joey”
?! written in pencil, in rather large irregular
?| characters. This, with permission of our host
?! I took away with me as a lasting memorial of
?! this remarkable half-hour.
I proceeded forthwith to the examination of
?! the two doors. Both the labels inscribed with
if my name were sticking tight and uninjured
(\ across the chinks. No human being had
*A metre—1.096 yard, Tr.
202
THE S PIE ITU A LI ST.
April 23, 1880.
entered from without to play the part of a con¬
federate for Mr. Eglinton.
The impression of the whole was absolutely
overpowering. I must say that every unpre¬
judiced observer, with the most critical acumen,
but also free from all prejudice, and from
desire to interpret everything absurdly out of
prejudice, who had been present, would, if
with a spark of the love of truthand of the genuine
exact scientific spirit, openly confess the full
mediumistic reality of the phenomena. True
the seance was one of those dark sittings which
have recently been so much attacked, but I
cannot understand the dislike for those, since
observation in the dark may be as sure and
accurate as in the light. For exact investi¬
gators light or darkness makes no great differ¬
ence. The certainty of the phenomena rests
upon premises and conclusions from the whole
course of the occurrences. But for people
resolved not to believe or be convinced, light
seances notoriously will avail nothing, as for
example Mr. Slade’s.
Our casual circle consisted only of Germans,
who, with the exception of Baron Yon Hoffmann
and myself—I having only had information
of Mr. Eglinton’s presence in Leipsic the
evening before—understood no word of Eng¬
lish, and so could not be in secret conspiracy
with him. But that the medium himself per¬
formed all the here-described manifestations,
like a man as elastic as India-rubber, will to
every attentive reader (except opponents who
are willing to suppose impossibilities) appear
a wonderful superstition. To anyone knowing
the facts it is truly amusing to read articles
upon similar seances from the opposition side,
as the one which at Easter was going through
all the newspapers about the alleged exposure
of Mrs. Corner, formerly Miss Florence Cook,
in London. One sees too evidently the de¬
liberate design, apparent in the final sentence.
“ Thus is broken the strongest pillar on which
the celebrated scholars, Zollner, Crookes, Wal¬
lace, and others, founded their world of spirits.
But what signifies it there are other swind¬
lers available for the dupes of trickery, and so
the nuisance goes on. Delusion is not destroyed
by demonstration. Drive out one devil and
a thousand others enter.’’
North German Gazette, 2§thMarch,—“Upto
that time we considered a special refutation of
the supposed exposure of so reliable a medium
as Miss Florence Cook, to be quite superfluous
for people acquainted with the subject. But
in the present number we will go into the case
.circumstantially.”
bj The delusion of our opponents will, however,
K| not be destroyed by demonstration that they
! ! have before them no lie and swindle, but real
bj effective forces. But to such opponents, in-
js| accessible to conviction, nothing matters. On
j (j principle one excludes such perverse opponents,
K\ who deny the progress of the ship, even if it
:bj can be inferred from the apparent motion of the
bj objects on the shore, from these manifestations.
Kj They are simply unfit to judge of them. Under
Kj their eyes everything is turned and perverted
|>j to its opposite. It therefore concerns all
j)j genuine investigators to unite against super-
Kj ficial, irrational, malicious opponents. Who-
ja ever wishes honestly to learn will assuredly
j)| find ways and means to convince himself of the
Kj facts. It would be best if everywhere men,
ja who, like Baron Yon Hoffmann, in Leipsic,
|?| desire to advance the thing practically, were to
bj engage good and strong mediums, and admit to
Kj seances only friendly, honest investigators,
j(j strangers, however, only under the condition
j > j that they refrain from acts of brute force against
j/j the medium, then let opponents write what
Kj they please; no truth has yet been permanently
Kj stifled by deliberate misrepresentations. To
j>j Mr. Eglinton upon his further tour through
j>j Germany, we wish everywhere the protection
j | of such an asylum as he has found for a
j<| time in Leipsic within a truly humane and
bj cultivated family, among their distinguished
bj acquaintances, and in circles of exact investi-
jsi gators. The seed which his work has sown
Kj here will certainly bring to-day a blessed
1?I harvest in the better beliefs of many.
j>| On the release of Mr. Matthews from prison, there is
!<j no doubt that with with his powers he can command
j) j numerous engagements in the best society in London.
j)i There will be one temporary drawback, namely, that the
Kj London season will be over.
j)j Mrs. Hallock desires us to announce that on Thurs-
i(i day, May 6th, there will be a national demonstration
bj of women in St. James’s Hall, Piccadilly, to support
i|i the claim of women ratepayers to the parliamentary
kj franchise. The Yiscountess Harberton will preside,
bj New Inventions.—Among recent applications for
j(j Letters Patent announced in the Commissioners of
jsj Patents Journal, are one by Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald
i>j “Improvements in Magneto-Electric Machines,” March
ja 2nd; another by Prancis Ward Monet, of Birmingham,
jsi “ Improvements in Lamps and match and other boxes,”
|)j March 9th; a third by Mr. Thaddeus Hyatt, “ Improve-
ia ments in Buildings,” March 16th; and a fourth by Mr.
I Si Maskelyne, the Conjuror, “Improvements in Appara-
j)j tus for issuing Tickets.”
isj Last Wednesday night Mrs. Pletcher gave an in-
bj teresting trance stance at 38, Great Eussell Street,
kj London, at which one of the sitters stated to us that
iSj the medium had stated family particulars to her, which
j/j could not possibly have been known to Mrs. Pletcher
IS i by normal means.
April 23, 1880.
SPIRITUALIST.
203
THE GLASGOW ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The following are extracts from, the quarterly report
of the Glasgow Association of Spiritualists, for the
quarter ending 31st March, 1880 :—
“ The work of your Association has been carried on
by means of lectures, seances, the library, Lyceum, and
the gratuitous distribution of suitable literiture.
11 By these means your Association has been pleading
the cause of Spiritualism and truth before the tribunal
of public opinion in Glasgow; also by advocating free
thought and full inquiry into matters theological as
well as scientific, into the laws of spirit as well as
of matter.
“ Although we do not claim to have accomplished
great things in this direction, the work has never been
better done, and by the principles of union and
brotherly love, we hope to be more successful in the
future.
“Your Association has passed a number of rules and
bye laws for the guidance of its members. These rules
are printed on the back page of the Association’s hymn
book. Through the kindness of an active member
these hymn books are freely circulated in and out of
the Association rooms, helping largely to call attention
to the subject of Spiritualism.
“Your Accociation has some one hundred members
on its roll; almost weekly during the last three months
new members have been enrolled.
“ One member Miss Kate Bell has been removed by
death from our midst since last quarter-day, and
three others have been removed by business, from
the City.
“ Our Sunday morning and evening lectures are
well attended by members, and well sustained by the
public.
“ It is a matter of congratulation that a greater spirit
of liberality is manifested by your members; that sub¬
scriptions flow in without much request to the
treasurer.
“ Your platform has been principally occupied by
local speakers, which system has enabled the Associa¬
tion to live within its income.
“ The new speakers who will address you next
quarter will be Messrs. Nesbit, McDougall and
Mickleson. By special request our venerable chair¬
man, Jas. Walker, Esq., will address you on Sunday
evening, May 16th.
“ Your Association, ever ready to shew its apprecia¬
tion of faithful services rendered to the cause by the
much despised public workers, professional mediums,
tendered its recognition lately to Mr. E. W. Wallis of
Nottingham, by a soiree and testimonial. Guided by
the same spirit, which we believe to be in harmony with
the principles of Spiritualism, the Association deems
it right to acknowledge, protect and defend if neces¬
sary, all well-tried workers who have been engaged in
its service. And while we have no desire to interfere
with the judgment of others, “at home or abroad,”
we consider ourselves intelligent and experienced
enough to decide for ourselves as to the respective
merits of the future mediums and speakers employed
by the Association; and in this quarterly report we
desire to make honourable mention of Mr. E. W.
Wallis, Mr. F. 0. Matthews, Mr. Thos. Walker (late
of Melbourne), and of our guest, Mr. J, J. Morse.
“ We, as an Association, are indebted for the cordial
and able manner with which these gentlemen have
fulfilled their engagements, and should future circum¬
stances be favourable, we shall always be glad to treat
them as friends and brethren, but never as ‘ hirelings,’
as suggested by the editor of one of our weeklies.
“There is a fair demand for books and pamphlets at
the bookstall.
“ The children’s Lyceum is making pleasing progress.
The members are invited to visit and send their
children to it.
“ The Library is well stocked and made good use of
by your members.
“ The financial statement will be found to be
satisfactory.
Mr. Coates adds :—“In presenting this report, the
last in my capacity of Secretary, I have only to ask that
which I am sure you will readily grant—your cordial
support to John Monro, my successor. He is eminently
qualified to carry on the work; he is a scholar, gentle¬
man and a profound thinker ; as an organizer I do not
know his equal.
“ In bidding you farewell, I ask you to be charitable
to my shortcomings, my impulsiveness, radicalism and
enthusiasm ; but uphold whatsoever good I have been
instrumental in bringing about as your secretary.
“ My work has been for Spiritualism first, and your
Association next, and wherever I go, I hope, through
good and evil report, this principle will actuate me.
Permit me to urge you, educated by the mistakes and
encouraged by the successes of the past, to be fearless
in the advocacy of the truth that is in you ; preach it,
but above all live it. The eyes of the world and of the
angels are upon you. Whatever good has occurred to
you through your investigation and knowledge of
Spiritualism, boldly defend and promulgate as that
which has given liberty to your souls, consolation in
time, bright hopes and deep assurance of immortality
in the future, so that others may enj oy that which now
causes you to rejoice.”
The quarterly tea meeting of the Association, on
Tuesday 13th March, was held in its Rooms, 164,
Trongate. There was a large attendance, Mr. James
Walker in the chair. Ho was supported on the plat¬
form by Mr. Higginbottom, of Australia, Mr. Birrell,
(spirit medium for inventions), Mr. Don, Mr. Coates,
and Mr. J. J. Morse. Messrs. Bradly, Torrence,
Barker, Bowman, and Don, and Miss Townsend, con
tributed to the evening’s harmony with songs and
readings.
The secretary read the quarterly report which in¬
dicated a very harmonious and prosperous condition of
affairs in the Association. Its adoption was moved by
Mr. Griffin and ably seconded in a few choice remarks
by Mr. J. J. Morse.
A hearty vote of thanks to Mr. Coates was moved
by Mr. Bradly, and seconded by Mr. Bowman, for the
able, earnest, and zealous manner in which he had
conducted the affairs of the Association. The chair¬
man desired the friends to record their opinion by
standing. The vote was carried with loud applause,
and the late secretary responded in a few words.
The guides of Mr. J. J. Morse, then addressed the
meeting though their medium. A vote of thanks was
passed to the chairman, and the evening’s pleasant pro¬
ceedings terminated by the singing of “Auld Lang
Syno.” '
Two new monthly periodicals in connection with
Spiritualism have been started in Australia. The best
of the two is edited by Mr. Haviland, of Sydney.
D. 0., Boltok:—It is quite true and should be remedied, but
we do not desire to make these pages an erea of strife in the
matter.
“ A Voice from Outside Laodicea Tour article is in type,
and will be published as soon as space for the purpose is
available,
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 23, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Bjf the late Wm.* Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., ProfetsoT of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneous!; in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II {—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Inffuence.
CHAPTER IV *—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes —
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retro vision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Ac., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CIpAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII;—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX {—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Inffuence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—^Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X {—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—^Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI {—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII {—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII {—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep-
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XTV {—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV {—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI {—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
K{ civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
jSi sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
j>| lived, the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
1)1 ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
i) | The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
\(\ Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
I?] investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
Kj professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
i (I true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
Kl were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
i S; presence of mediums without being touched.
!)i Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
|) I Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
I?! thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
Kj house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
i (I Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
Kl professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Kj Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
Kj forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
Kj stranger to the family present.
jSj The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
jS: science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
j) j untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
j) j private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
jr i by any member of the family. At the present time there are
j C j only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
Kj phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
Kj tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
iSj be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
j)j the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
j)j protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
j ? j the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
in which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
j C j duped who trust in worthless authorities.
Kj One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
j \ j ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
ISj new circle in three, formed according to the following instrue-
j)j tions, obtains the phenomena:—
i) i 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrnp-
j) j tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
jr j 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
jc i the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
j(j to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
K j wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
jS! top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
j;j little importance. Any table will do.
l)j 3. Relief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
i ? j but an acrid feeling against them is weakening,
jc j 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
Kj general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
(j should be of a frivolous nature.
Si 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
S j feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
j indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
) j 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
); to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
? j the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
;c j three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
cj “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
(j If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I Lspeak the
S i letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
)j to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
) j three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
) j from this time an intelligent system of communication is
c j established.
(j 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
(j trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class of
S j messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
)j usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
Vj objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
)i the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
'j or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
' j undeniable proof.
. j 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
) j no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
i j A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
i j mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either he used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week: angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
April 23, 1880,
THE S PIE ITU A Ll ST.
iii
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. AH the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
False lights and dark spots
in Spiritualism, by Christian Reimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Ifill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at sAiraces by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer."—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
EESEARCHES IN THE pheno¬
mena OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENOER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s ” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: 8. E. Catty, 12. Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion of spiritualists. 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, dally. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ 8. C., ’ care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &q., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.O
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),"
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration. .
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Bichinond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea, Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolyes, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon,”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell,
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand, By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through'the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.’’
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfalien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestat ions among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Pertv, Pr‘ >fe- sor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. Bj
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy ir
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdpugal!
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Blanch Office, S3
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Acadcmie
of Paris, Berlin, Munich. Brussels, Madrid, Turin am
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerisri
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society fo,
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 88,
Museum-street, London, w.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pabt I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Paiit II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glen are—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
T3EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
-Ll/ psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve de
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable t
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Faemeb.
contents.
Chapteb I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapteb II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapteb III :-r-The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapteb IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VIIThe Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepenee,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information bow to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself-to drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions bow
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, cou-
sequently irreligious age.
IV-
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 23, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
TJSE
END'S FRUIT SALT
Every Travelling Trunk and Houseliold in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,;Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it,”—Woon Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
TMAG-GED, WEARY AND WORN
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injuiious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—Anewin-
' kj vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fall to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and tee the capsule it
marked “JUNO’SFRUIT SALT." Without,you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 2d. and is. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court JournaZ and some twenty or thirl}
other standard journals,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.'—2. The Song ol
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay oi
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12. Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29 The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says;—“Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself Only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds niquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
OW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the'
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
UN AOY LAW REFORM
ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 p m. Saturdays 1 to 2
rTHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
X OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, settingforth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant. Dr-Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob and
Othek Obsebvebs in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination nas been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
Price 6d.; post free 7£d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
T1HE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
X SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION Oj
SOCIETY. Two Essays ty Anna Blackwell and Mi
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Goli
Medals op the British National Association oi
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S. A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great. Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
(Order.) Sample copies free.
Mesmerism       193
A Mahogany Familiar    194
The Abbotsford Ghost. By Henry G. Atkinson,
F G S   195
Astrology. By G. C. Massey  196
The Life of Self-sacrifice      196
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Germany  197
Mr. E. W. Wallis  197
The Death of Mr. Andrews  197
The Matthews Case  197
A Private Seance      198
New Psychical Experiments. By Robert Friese,
Ph. D    199
A Seance with Mr. Eglinton, at Leipsic. By G.
C. Wittig ...:    199
The Glasgow Association of Spiritualists  203
Pragraphs:—Spiritualism in France    193
Plutocratic Superstition  198
A Remarkable Presentiment  198
New inventions  202
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W,
Allen; Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C,
