Registered as a Newspaper,
v * "
^d 0 33< 'PydSo!<ociidS:i<- >s:di^Xc3^  
Spintealism xn <&xmi §nMm
the SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 3x9, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 263. (VOL. XL—No. 10.) LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eoimtus.
God in the Soul. By Baboo Peary Chand Mittra * 109
A Spiritualistic French Poet  109
“ Though your Sins be as Scarlet, they shall be 'White as
 Snow.” By Alexander Calder, President of the British
National Association of Spiritualists  110
Clairvoyant Experiences in relation to Alleged Ele-
•; . ;mentary Spirit^. By Catherine Woodforde...  112
jliss Martineau and Clairvoyance. By Henry G. Atkin-
l • son, F.G.S...;  jp     ... ... 114
Metaphysics j and; Materialism. By Charles Carleton
Majseyi.. f.*: JjStl ... ...^     ... 114
Professor Gregory’s Book on Animal Magnetism.,   114
The-Healing Powers of Mesmerism     ... ... 115
A TranfcjEecjiure   ...    115
QoffespohdenceMaterialisation of Spirit Heads, No. 10
—Spirit Lights—Astrology, Destiny, and Prayer—The
—Liverpool-Psychological Society—Aid for Mediums—
Spiritualism in the Provinces—Clairvoyance ... ...116
War. By John Page Hopps... '... ... ' ... ... ...  119
Paragraphs':—The Death Process, 109; The Murder of
Mr. S. S. Jones, 109; Immortality, 113 ; Miss Kisling-
bufy’s Visit to the United States, 119 ; The Northum¬
brian Seer... ... .;;      120
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the ^Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Pp , ' Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A. oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including mafiy eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in conriectitfn with their communiea-,
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F- Varley, '<3.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S.VEditor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R,
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the fRight Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (puke of
Leuchtehberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, E.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the;
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, E.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox,’President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association- of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies. D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Cxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles:(United States); Mr. W. Lihdesay
Richardson.M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
fhe Spiritualist Is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kipsque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street;*'' Shanghai’: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S;s, 225,- Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All; communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
EYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing, ; Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for September, 1877.
Wednesday, oth.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Saturday, 8th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p m.
„ „ . Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
Tuesday, \\th.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 14fft.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 15</i.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Friday, 2\st.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 22nd.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, 26th.—House and Offices Committee, at'5.30 p.m.
Friday, 28th.—Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
- 6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 29th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
N.B.—Members of Council and of Committees are requested
to accept thiodotice, as the Monthly Agenda will not in future
be sent out to each member as hitherto.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES-i-6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The ‘ object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and- are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
 H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec,
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every . Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on-Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for stance only, 2s. 6d.
 E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Caxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Its work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “ HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., <&c., post free 13 stamps.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co., PATENTEES.
Show Rooms:—18, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Price from £3 to £9 10s.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851^
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.C
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on th® minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of ‘Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
: FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,.
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to tbe skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road. 
ADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President. -
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
[Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and .Honorary Seer it ary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston Lane, Dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Haekney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts afl'eeting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus;
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have1 the privilege of attending the public seances oi
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances.” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary. *
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .'—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding tbe same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions-of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of. Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &e., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EYENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Langham Hall, Great Portland-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evehing, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may be obtained, and subscriotions,
donations. &c., received by Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House
Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRYOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Oampden-
hill, Kensington. w*
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their' own homes. Published at The Spiritualis
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for6d. '
11
THE SPIEITUALIST,
Sept. 7, 1877,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1373.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., I, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Park held, Dldsbury, Manchester,
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, upper Norwood.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs. ,19, Cambridffe-street, Hyde-park, W.
Pitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, . Loughb,orough-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-*street, Grosvenor-square, W.
H my wood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place.W.
Itogers, E. D . Kose-villa, Church-end, EinchleviN.
Bpeer, Stanhope Templeman, M.l)Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armflcld, W. N., Eden-vllla, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brlxton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, llich'mo'nd Hill,
Blnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-aquare, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Corn wall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ MalaDtir,*’ Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelplii, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodg'e, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawc. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent's-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reirrers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-viila, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Str’awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W. *
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-strcet, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M, J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensieigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
W'ilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs,, 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal!, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, E. Andre, Esq, H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasstm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veb, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fcnzi, Banca Fenzi, Florence, Italy,
err Constantin Delhaz, Singerstrasse No. 7, Vienna, Italy.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.TNew Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresoreiie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U R.A.
W .F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes;Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq , 2. Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 235, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. P, Jacoby, ffi. Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Lbndon.N.W.' -
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Hoiiore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzher Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W.. Day, Esq,, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 64, Denblgh-stfeet, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiaui, Saltta Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratll, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cdchet, Rud Tahget, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq,, 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite e'tMagHetkjUe. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Sniriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 28,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 28, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
SociedarTEspirita Central de la Republica Mexican^ President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Airiedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
. dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
pRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
VX will be published as soon as Mrs. "W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolner, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys;
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistoek-square,
London.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
. fES'T MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
* Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
V-V ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• .delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces ion subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
ESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &e. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
lyriss MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Pocock-street, Blaekfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develope mediums.
PSYCHOMETRY.—For delineation of cha¬
racter and information on development consult (if by
letter enclose photo and 10s. 6d. as fee) Mr. J. Skipsey, Ash-
ington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northnmberland.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
T\7HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
▼ ? UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A hook for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s, 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY AND RICH. London Spirit-
uali*i Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion hook to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting auiobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.  
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER is about to form a
Spiritual Circle for the higher forms of mental mani¬
festations, to be held weekly,‘and the number of sitters limited.
Those who wish to join these regular seances are requested to
correspond with Mr. Fletcher, 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury,
W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT¬
UALISTS.
TyrUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
XtJL eight-aired, and in good condition, to be RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to be disposed of. Application to be mads at once to the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo <
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Js. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, or the despair of
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modem Spirit ¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
lu
J) eti'fi
1
P IP
o
s> i)
ejAs
lifi
©/«
p
5t
^T.rr jjf i|| of atp) of ^pnjtlualbt
Volume £)eeven. Kumber Ten.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7th, 1877.
OOD IN THE SOUL.
BY BABOO PEARY CHAND MITTRA.
The most important teaching of the Aryas is that God is
in the human soul, and that the soul is the reflex of God. Its
progression, when liberated or disembodied, is gradual, but
endless. The Aryas look upon God “as truth, wisdom,
infinite, blissful; source of immortality, tranquillity, good;
one and without second.”
I will give extracts from some of the Upanishads :—
“ God lives in the soul and in its very depth. The wise,
’ by spiritual exercise, know Him, and become free from ner¬
vous delight and grief.”
“ Those who see God in their souls are always happy.”
“ God is invisible to the eye, cannot be touched by the
hand, cannot be reached by any direction, cannot be recog¬
nised by any sound, cannot be brought within the reach of
thought. It is the soul which gives proof of His existence.
He is above all mundane virtues. He is tranquil, good, and
without second.”
“ It is not by many good words, or by exercise of memory,
or by much hearing of Him, that one can know Him; the
worshipper who wills to know Him, reaches Him. God re¬
veals Himself in the soul of such a worshipper.”
“ Those who wish to know God, see Him in their souls by
governing the external and internal organs of sense, by
spiritual meditation, long-suffering, and maintenance of a
uniform, tranquil state internally.”
“ The Rishis who have been successful in extinguishing
desire and becoming tranquil, have united themselves with
God, and enjoy the felicity of wisdom. Wherever God is,
they see Him, and they can penetrate everything.”
These extracts show that God can only be known through
the soul. The Aryas rejected all other evidence, because
what proceeds from the organs of sense or from emotion, or
from intellect not raised above the brain, cannot always be
unerring, and to arrive at the soul-state is a work of intense
labour. Clairvoyance and somnambulism astonish us, though
they are but the manifestations of a partially emancipated
soul; but a soul entirely free from flesh, evinces much
higher powers. The more attenuated the soul is, the more
it approaches God in (C truth and wisdom.” The means for
the attainment of the spiritual state is the yoge, which has
its stages; it also acts differently on different persons, as
we find that some persons are naturally clairvoyant, som¬
nambulistic, and possess second sight, while others acquire
these powers by the exercise of yoge, or the gradual extinc¬
tion of the natural life.
Any person really anxious to be spiritual is assisted by
spirit friends, a fact I know from personal experience and
from spiritual communications. The visits of spirits do not
solely end in the external manifestations which they give to
produce a conviction of their existence ; such manifestations
should therefore be looked upon as the first stage of spiritual
experience. The real work of the spirits is to spiritualise
those who are qualified to receive their aid, and the provi¬
dence of God is clearly appreciated as we rise from the
natural to the spiritual state. When God is seen in the
soul, creeds appear in their true colours. They are the out¬
come of some state or other of the mind or sentient soul,
but not of the soul real or tranquil. Hence we have to
make large allowance for those who propagate or follow the
creeds ; they do not possess the splendour within; they
mistake darkness for light.
Calcutta, Aug. 4th, 1877.
On Sunday next, September 9 th, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver two
trance addresses in Belper. Friends from Derby, Nottingham, Sheffield,
Chesterfield, and surrounding districts are cordially invited to attend.
Mr. Morse’s seventh anniversary soiree will be held in October next.
A SPIRITUALISTIC FRENCH POET.
We take from a French newspaper, La Liberte Coloniale,
the following extract, which shows that the almost un¬
paralleled success of a great lyric work by an avowed
Spiritualist is making an impression in Parisian minds :—
Lomon has been anointed poet on his first appearance at
the Theatre Francais, with Jean Dacier.
For a beginning, and in verse too, this is indeed good,
young Lomon.
This new poet has already his legend. It is told of him
that he is a Spiritualist, and that ’tis the spirits who make
his verses.
In this case we congratulate the spirits, who have not
accustomed us to so* much talent.
The Spiritualism of Jean Dacier has given him the nicety
and the science of Sardou’s pages—another Spiritualist of
the first water.
It appears that the Academy does not shut its doors to
Spiritualists Far from this, I see already in the future
Lomon in the Academical chair. With such a debut this
is inevitable.
But, since he is such a Spiritualist, let him evoke the
spirit of his father, our good and regretted confrere. What
a beautiful soul I What sweetness ! and what strength !
Only to find myself with him I should like to become a
Spiritualist.
Mania or not, how happy the faith which brings our friends
j to life again! Illusion or truth, it makes existence lighter.
Much will be forgiven to Spiritualists, for they love much.
I beg pardon of the author of Jean Dacier for comparing
him to Mary Magdalen. ... A poet will excuse this fancy.
A Creole, besides, is quite in his place in speaking thus.
We have already been to Jean Dacier ten times: we shall go
again; and we shall never be weary of listening, though it
is in verse.”—Impressions dun Creole au Theatre.
Adrien Gotave.
The Death Process.—In the course of a message given through Mrs.
Danskin, the communicating spirit said :—“ Emily Ward was my
name, the wife of George Ward, the daughter of Samuel Joyce. It
was at Rye, New York, that I died. A beautiful poem is the resigna¬
tion of death. When no clouds flit over the vision of the one to whom
death comes, truly may it be called the poem of resignation. The lips
may be silent when death is unclosing the prison-house, but the brain
is active in thought. The freedom which is given to the spirit in the
land of no death, is more beautiful than I have words to describe.
Before deep consideration was mine, I thought death was terrible, but
after I learned that God was love, that wisdom was His, that all His
attributes were good, I then knew within myself that what He had
fashioned with His own hand, He could not cast wholly from Himself,
and I have not been mistaken.”
The Murder of Mr. S. S. Jones,—At the trial, in Chicago,
of William C. Pike, phrenologist, for the murder of Mr. Stevens
S. Jones, editor of the Religio-Philosophical Journal, in cross-
examination by Col. Vallette, Dr. Jewell said that men might entertain
extreme views on any subject without being actually insane. For
instance, a kleptomaniac or dissolute person need not necessarily be
insane. The fact that Pike held radical and extreme views on
phrenology and Spiritualism did not prove his insanity. The radical
views of a Communist as to the division of property by no means
evidenced unsound mind. Witness did not consider the poem or the
drama primd /acfe evidence of insanity, but thought that a man who
would persistently devote himself, to the neglect of his business, to
preparing such incoherent rubbish, was not of actually sound mind. He
thought that Pike should be shut up in a lunatic asylum, and never let
out any more, for he was liable to a return of these insane conditions at
any moment. Pike was of an unsound, unstable mind, and should be
locked up. Gen. Stiles offered in evidence a sworn certificate, signed
by W. W. Jodding, superintendent of the Taunton, Mass,, Lunatic
Asylum, to the effect that W. C. Pike was confined there in 1870. The
prosecution admitted that Pike was confined on Blackwell’s Island in
1870-71, and was discharged from there in March of the latter year.
The jury returned a verdict as follows:—“ We, the jury, find that the
defendant, Wm. C. Pike, did, on the 15th day of March, 1877, kill
Stevens S. Jones, as charged in the indictment, but at that time the
defendant was insane, and still continues to be insane.”
110
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 7, 1877.
THOUGH YOUR SINS BE AS SCARLET THEY SHALL BE !
WHITE AS SNOW.” * j
BY ALEXANDER CALDER, PRESIDENT OP THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP !(
SPIRITUALISTS. !)
The words which I have chosen for a short discourse this I
morning are found in the 18th verse of the 1st chapter of ||
Isaiah. u Come now, and let us reason together, saith the !)|
Lord: Though your sins be as scarlet they shall be as white | |
as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as |||
wool.” I
Every student of the Scriptures who peruses this chapter < |
can scarcely fail to be impressed with the intense earnestness j
of the great prophet of Israel. There is a sublimity in his j
opening—“ Hear, 0 heavens ; and give ear, 0 earth; for the |||
Lord hath spoken.” There is a grandeur in his attitude j j
when he discloses to the assembled multitude the particulars j j j
of a very remarkable vision; like a torrent, he bursts out in j j
awful denunciation of the condition of Israel, and then adds, j j
Come now, and let us reason. He reasoned with them: and || j
there must be something similar between us to-day. Way- |(l
farers on the path of life, we desire a way of safety from the I j
dangers and difficulties which invest us. jj j
And first let me ask, “ What is sin that it should stir up !j j
in the prophet so much righteous indignation ?” All wrong- j !
doing, wickedness, vice, bad action, moral or otherwise, j j
Immense is the variety of human conduct, ranging from the |] j
most exalted good to the basest of evil. No two persons’ j j
life or conduct is alike, any more than their personal appear- j j
ance. Every one differs from another in physical, mental, j j
moral, and spiritual faculties, and acquirements, and hence | |
the difference in conduct. Now, suppose righteousness be | j
the proper remedy for sin (and there is nobody here will j j
doubt it), and we compare righteousness to music: the per- I I
formers of a given piece would play each according to his m
skill—some well, others indifferently, others perchance exe- If
crably; some in harmony, and others out of it; only accord- | j
ing to the culture added to any hereditary gift they may j j
possess, so would be the product either good or bad. The | !
production of righteousness, then, would appear to depend I
on culture; we have to learn righteousness, and sin or evil I
is therefore the absence of culture. If we are right in this |
view, then we may safely proceed to say that ignorance is j
the cause of sin. Sin, then, being the fruit of ignorance, j
our duty is to dispel ignorance; and this is best done by the I
diffusion of knowledge—knowledge of the right kind. And jr
the question then arises, what knowledge is necessary to j
establish righteousness in us ? (
There is an art to be learnt in all things, and righteous- j
ness is no exception to the rule. Music, painting, sculpture, j
law and physic, all require to be studied under particular j
rules; and if it is so of these comparatively unimportant j
matters, think you it is not necessary in the high pursuit of I
morals? We tell you emphatically it is ; and that herein j
lies the secret of all improvement in well-doing. Do you j
value moral and spiritual health, and desire to possess it, |
study the method of possession, and it is yours. Improve- |
ment is ’eminently a personal matter. It can never be |
vicarious. Whatever a man sows that shall he reap. Is !
there anything more plain or simple ? Good always produces j
good; and evil produces evil. This is part of the Divine j
order ; and its force remains the same on earth as well as j
in heaven. Everywhere this great law works with perfect I
accuracy, and there is no deviation from it. All this is very j
clear, for how can it be rightly imagined that the Creator j
wished to puzzle his creatures by placing before them some j
incomprehensible method whereby they should obtain their j
safety ? Yet the Church is continually insisting on the obso- j j j
lete things.oft past ages. Modem advancement cannot brook j j
this overshadowing of its learning, experience, and know- |||
ledge. What wa^ believed and accepted as truth some 1,800 jj|
years ago; that which was indeed forced upon the world as || |
such by .the dominanttchurch we need not now receive. Of j j
words and forms we have had too much already. ■ What we j j
want now is a system which consists of intelligent, rational j j
action capable of guiding us fully through the difficulties of j j
life and helping us onward to the end. Words and forms ! i
vary all the world over; but good actions, sympathy, love, | |
fraternal kindness,, these vary never.* ° ‘ 7 |[| 1
* A Sunday morning diawurse, recently delivered in Brighton.
Besides, we see abundant error in the intrinsic absurdities
of popular religion so foolishly relied upon for salvation.
We have only to look at some of these propositions to dis¬
cover their inherent weakness. The ludicrously severe
penalties attached to sin, together with the absurd demands
of religion, have driven the largest portion of the population
of Continental Europe into atheism. Nor is this surprising.
Just take a moment’s look at the doctrine known as the
atonement. It has been well and pithily remarked of it,
God decrees the sacrifice, God accepts the sacrifice, God is
the sacrifice. The Judge and the victim are one—theology
not religion. What a marvellous proposition! Am I
wrong in styling it a glaring absurdity ? Surely such a
demonstration of love as this sacrifice implies was unneces¬
sary either for God or for man; for instead of causing man
to understand and approach a gracious Maker it drives him
further off. And we have to consider the moral effects of
such instruction. It is not by filling the mind with alarm,
it is not by operating on the feebleness of the timid, the
weak, and the unenlightened that we establish ways of pro¬
gress and righteousness. It is not by unscrupulous state¬
ments, however innocently put forward, and calculated at
all costs to exact submission from the multitude that the
interests of true religion are promoted, or the welfare of
humanity advanced. The perfect sincerity of the Church is
no sufficient answer. Incorrect charts may be employed in
complete innocence; but for all that the crew may be ship¬
wrecked. Nothing short of true methods must be practised
if we desire to promote and establish safety and be saved
from sin.
There is only one system of improvement in this as in all
things, and it is based on personal responsibility. Make this
real and direct. No plan which lessens the direct responsi¬
bility of the individual can fulfil the beneficent purpose of
the Divine Father. There is no bending of everlasting laws;
no flexibility in the method of the Eternal, so great as to
permit one to bear the sins of another. Far from being
favourable, were such a proposition possible, the operation
of such a doctrine would have a sure tendency to promote
and perpetuate carelessness, to say nothing of other evils;
whereas the exercise of the greatest caution is necessary to
enable us to walk in God’s rules. The most mischievous
results may be expected when arbitrary and non-natural
methods are adopted for the guidance of man, and there can
only be scanty and doubtful progress where such systems
are maintained; for wherever religion does not commend
itself to our reason its exercise becomes more or less formal.
But where the rules which make for righteousness are well
understood, they cannot fail to have a practical effect, just
as any other apprehended truth employed for our benefit.
And further, who is affected at hearing that an inunda¬
tion of a river in China has drowned thousands ; or that the
famine now prevalent in India has killed its tens of thou¬
sands ? If such great events occurring in our own day excite
little practical sympathy, is it likely that we shall be
seriously influenced when we are told of the sacrifice of one
life, however beautiful and noble and splendid that life,
some 1800 years ago ? Add to this the extraordinary story
that this life was the life of God himself; and, add again,
that this death was for our sins; and shall we be surprised
if we are not affected at all ? and can we be rightly blamed
for want of faith ? Experience shows that the best way of
moving people to permanent action is found in a plain
and unvarnished statement of facts; something they can
thoroughly understand; for true knowledge then penetrates
their being, and influences their whole life. Proper appeals
made to the understanding are never wholly lost; but far
fetched stories too frequently enter one ear to go out at the
other.
So long as religion is based on sentiment and speculation,
and not on accuracy, its results will be precarious and shift¬
ing ; but when it is established on fixed laws made clear to
the conscience, conduct should and will be all that is desired.
The rocks and dangers of society are to be weathered and
passed in some settled and sure way, and not left to chance.
Good fruit will be produced wherever good seed is sown.
What, then, let me ask, is it that we should do in order that
we be protected from sin ? What, in a word, is the real
object of religion? What should be the true aim of the
Sept. 7, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ill
churches ? Is it not that people should be distinguished for j
peace, patience, love, sincerity, honesty, truth, chastity, |
moderation, temperance, sobriety, charity, and industry. ||
Now, the only sure and direct way to get a thing is to |
seek it earnestly, fairly, thoroughly; and to get peace, j
patience, love, sincerity, honesty, truth, chastity, modera- j
tion, temperance, sobriety, charity, and industry you have !
simply to cultivate; and like every other object we pursue, !
in proportion to the extent of our pursuit, so will be the j
exact measure of our success, not more nor less. j
The miseries of life would rapidly vanish if each one |
personally acquired this simplest of all things, the know- j
ledge of these principles, for herein is the substance of j
religion. But as it is not enough to know a path and neglect j
to take it, so we fail to acquire the advantage and profit if |
we do not practice these principles. In them is found at |
once our chiefest duty, our greatest safety, and our highest !
delight. The sincere and thorough application of these
principles is what is absolutely necessary, and nothing short
of it will suffice. The whole face of society would
speedily change for the better if each one cultivated these
rules to the full. They are the very springs whence flow j
moral and spiritual health, to say nothing of physical well- |
being, and to draw from them must produce immediate as j
well as everlasting benefit. Remark, however, that unless I
religion is thus embraced personally, it is nothing. Unless j
it is taken with the whole heart and soul—unless it enters j
into our interior self, it is as nothing. I
We should not only cultivate, but lay in a stock of these j
invaluable properties. We should have a reserve to draw j
against in case we are exposed to any especial temptation or |
trial. Where the stock of any of these qualities is small or j
insignificant, the least pressure makes us give way, and !
perhaps leads to disgrace and ruin. How necessary, then, j
is it to cultivate well, and to abound in these essential | j
virtues, so as in time of danger to be found staunch and | |
safe against evil. |
But, whence come these principles ? They are certainly |
not human. Man did not make them. They have an eternal
origin, universal in their application, their bearing and their
effects. Once recognise the source of these principles and
you realise the Divine presence. You observe the finger of
the Maker of all in them. Other systems conflict with His
design; but this harmonises with His ways. Other systems
lead to controversy, divisions and strife; but this points to
the union of the whole human family. In them we have
a sound and real working method in which our mind and | j
our conscience can reasonably rest. j j
It is of great importance to know the root of things, for j j
then we learn most about them. We remember readily j i
their full meaning; their purposes and relations of life. So j j
if we know the root whence spring virtue and other qualities j |
in which true religion consists, we shall be at no loss to | |
discern whether or not we are actuated by true or false j |
motives of conduct. j j
No sectarian narrowness nor bigotry will be found dwell- j
ing in these rules; for it is impossible that they can get a |
footing where such breadth obtains. No painful insistance j
on conventionalities. They attack all forms which pro- j
duce speculation and controversy instead of certainty and j j
finality, for they are based in nature—verities for all time, j j
and all men and all climes—germs sure to produce sound | I
fruit: in a word, the full and true solution of all perplexity, j
the only rule of life adequate to accomplish the salvation of |
a world. |
We think it is not difficult to affirm that these principles j
come from God. They are brilliant qualities, which enrich |
their possessor with wealth above the price of rubies. Gold j
in quantities untold cannot buy them. They must be |
earnestly sought for, as they form the true staple of cha- j
racter here and hereafter. They are as precious in heaven |
as on earth, and the very angels without them would be poor I
indeed. j j
And all this becomes doubly important when we consider*' j j
what our existence means. What are we? Why are we j j
here? Whither are we bound? If life ended on earth, -1 j
then the matter would be different; but everything points j j
to a spiritual existence after the present is over. Indeed, j j
if we contemplate these matters seriously, we shall per¬
ceive that our life here is a manifestation of spirit. We,
have to do with the Father of Spirits. Unless, therefore,
these things are regarded as spiritual principles, having for
their object endurance into another life, they will fail in
their full force, and meaning, and effect. All the actions
of the Divine Father in relation to man grow out of these
principles; and all our love towards Him, all our affection,
and all our reverence for Him, centre in them.
Again, What is man unless he is the agent of the Maker
of the universe ? What is man unless he is a manifestation
of spirit ? We are children of an Eternal King: and the
signs of the Divine Fatherhood should not be lost in us.
The wonderful connection between God and man should be
understood and felt, and acknowledged. Unless we perceive
something of this great truth, we stand in the attitude of
strangers and rebels to a sovereign, and not of children to
a parent. We should never neglect the best, or spiritual,
side of our nature; for unless this is cultivated we shall have
no capacity to regulate our animal instincts. There is, then,
such a thing as a divine education, with which we should
be acquainted, for it furnishes us with the strength which
becomes a preservative from sin. We have daily to contend
against our animal nature: and it is not possible to with¬
stand the active potency of self, unless we have an almighty
object to worship, to adore, to love, and to trust. The grand
ideal of purity and excellence once fairly and clearly estab¬
lished in our hearts should be sufficient to subjugate self.
We can on no account ignore the claims of our higher nature,
the soul; the longings and aspirations of the noblest part of
man cannot be overlooked with impunity, but must be taken
into account. And for this purpose the greatest and best of
all thoughts is belief in God, as a Spirit everlasting, pure,
and good, ruling over all in righteousness and truth. To
have a real and abiding belief in Him becomes to us a
tower of strength. Our relationship to Him should be kept
steadily in view. Unless we have something more than a
nominal idea of His existence as our great Spiritual Father,
we shall derive no benefit from the thought. We should
instil into our minds a profound notion of our relationship
to Him. We should have a clear representation of some of
His attributes. His qualities, as far as we can understand
them, should be ascertained and made the subject of our
closest attention. They should be stamped upon our minds,
so that we may be quickened in our spiritual instincts, and
our higher life thus become sustained and glorified.
To sum up : We have here offered you a scientific method
of salvation for your guidance. All the virtue and power of
Christianity are present, while all the abstruse subtleties of
the Churches are removed and Religion is revealed in her
primitive springs of goodness. Here is the source of
Righteousness separate from the Doctrines which overload
and perplex.
It will be perceived that the qualities of which these
principles consist are of infinitely more value to affect
human conduct than the forms and ceremonies of religion.
These forms and ceremonies may, as they, alas ! too' often
do, cover unconscious hypocrisy ; but the actual cultivation
of these principles can only have one result, the production
of righteousness. . .
And none can alter in any manner, none can diminish,
none can increase the force of these principles. Ordarhed
by our Maker from the beginning of the world to carry with
them life-bearing fruit, they possess a power Which all who
try will experience. In them is the true substance of
religion.
There is an energy in these ideas which no dogma can in¬
crease. When the sufficiency of these laws is felt all dogmas
become intolerable. Now, pious fictions are«put up with,
while nothing substantial is offered. Speculations, however
specious, gratify for a time, but let ue be guided not by any
false sentiment, but by the cultivation of plain and simple
rules, whose constructive power for hitman conduct is readily
recognisable, of easy identification, and whose energy is
calculated in time to pervade all hearts.
, It is owing to the suspension of some of these principles
in favour of intolerance that terrible evils have in time ,
past come upon society, among which may.be noticed the
many acts of persecution in Gontinental Europe as well as
in England,
112
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 7, 1877.
It is owing to the suspension of some of these principles
that two nations are now engaged in a deadly struggle,
which will involve the destruction of many tens of thousands
of our fellowr men.
It is owing to the suspension of some of these principles
that the peace and harmony of many a family are cruelly
torn and destroyed.
It is owing to the suspension of the principle of humility
in favour of pride that there lacks that solidarity among
classes, wherein dwells the greatest strength of nations.
And so on of others, for as sure as you supersede the
operation of any one of these great principles you create
and set up a co-relative evil.
Finally, let me conclude with a few practical thoughts.
As we employ the minutes so will be the products of the
hours and days, and months and years. Let us watch
narrowly our thoughts and our actions, for their produce
will correspond. We shall reap results happy or otherwise,
according to the nature of that which we cultivate. Let us
see that our time passes profitably, improving ourselves as
it flies. Free agents endowed with power, we should com¬
mand results by trusting in the laws of the Eternal, whom
rightly to understand is to perceive and to love. Let us
remember that God is a real Being, and that the life beyond
is a real life. Concede it as we may, we are hastening on
towards that life, and if we are wise we shall secure some
of the treasure necessary for heaven. Let us be true inter¬
preters of the Divine Will, and we shall have abundant
crops of good. And rely upon it that the more we examine
the clearer we shall see whence come good and evil. Let
us surrender the follies which are doomed, and employ the
means which are rational and good, and which every way
tend to establish present and eternal righteousness. Having
then the soundest principles, and a definite object before
us, we may rest assured that if we are true to ourselves,
and set about earnestly to cultivate the things spoken of,
“ Though our sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as
snow; and though they be red like crimson, they shall be
as wool.”
CLAIRVOYANT EXPERIENCES IN RELATION TO
ALLEGED ELEMENTARY SPIRITS. .
BY CATHERINE WOODFORDE.
I AM one of the incredulous kind, but, like Thomas, believe
when I can see, hear, or touch. Of course, as I am a medium,
when I see, hear, or feel with my spiritual senses these too
are sufficient to bring conviction to my mind. Although
willing to take the testimony of those better informed than
myself, unless reason points out probability or possibility, I
naturally remain in a state of doubt until either bodily or
spiritual senses obtain that which the mind considers suffi¬
cient for conviction.
When I first heard of u elementary spirits f the idea of the
existence of such beings seemed to me too fantastic to be
accepted. But the able and interesting accounts of these
unsuspected denizens of our earth, given in Art Magic and
Ghost-landy filled me with a desire to know of myself if there
really were beings of the kind described. I could not readily
accept it as a fact, (wherein I am fully aware I displayed great
ignorance), and in reflecting upon the subject, a thousand
inquiries naturally sprang up in my mind as to the why, the
wherefore, and the use. I asked myself, If there are such
things why have I not seen them? Is it because of my
ignorance of their existence that they cannot yet be brought
within the plane of my spirit vision ?”
My unfailing resource in a quandary, or when seeking
more knowledge is, naturally enough, my spirit friends, and
teachers. My petition then became u If beings of that nature
exist, permit me to know it. Give me the knowledge I
desire, if possible.”
After confiding my wishes to these higher ones, I leave it
to them to find their own opportunities for teaching me,
hence I am frequently taken by surprise. Not long after my
interest and desire to know the truth upon this subject had
been awakened, I was one day giving a sitting to a lady, and
in my normal condition, with my eyes wide open, I clair-
voyantly saw in the air some very extraordinary minute
figures. The thought passed through my mind, “ Elemen-
faries, I suppose? No? nonsense, can’t be, absurd, all
11 fancy !” And being much engaged, I dismissed the subject
! from my mind. It returned again, however, when I was
| at leisure, exciting wonder and inquiry.
u Were they elementaries ?” I asked. a Yes !” was the
I reply. “ Nonsense J” I answered, “ I can?t believe it.”
A long time elapsed before I was again favoured with a
| sight of these, to me at that time, inconceivable beings. A
I friend having purchased a crystal wished me to give her a
| sitting that the spirits might endow, or charge it for her.
| We sat; her guardian appeared behind her, and by his sida,
| next me, two of the most extraordinary and luminous little
| individuals, who seemed very anxious that I should notice
j them. They were like the little hobgoblins we see re-
| presented on the stage, or in pictures, and resembled highly
| burnished but transparent metal. They had ugly, scarcely
i human faces, and no hair on their heads. Their movements
| were grotesque, and comical ; they chattered like magpies,
| and from an apparent eagerness that I should well see them,
| jumped upon the table in front of me, and wagged their
| legs and feet about. I then observed that their feet and
| hands were of a long, u dabby” form, and apparently webbed.
| Very much struck, but still reluctant to yield up previous
| belief, I asked the higher spirit if I really saw elementary
| spirits. u Yes !” he answered; “ these are of the kind that
| frequent mines, and they are interested in the endowing of
| the crystal; that has attracted them, and we have permitted
j you to see them to-day.” This was experience the second,
| to be laid away in the mind waiting for more to strengthen
| conviction.
| It was during last summer and autumn that I was per-
j mitted these two transitory peeps into elementary land. I
j do not remember that I had others until I had been residing
j in Rome for a month or two, when all at once it seemed as
j if the whole world had suddenly become peopled, for me,
j with elementary spirits. At certain times I could not look
j anywhere without their sudden appearance. No matter
j where I was, or in whose company, I could see them almost
j when I pleased. At first I thought, u Some of my kind
j friends are trying to amuse me with these fantastic visions
j but meekness and docility being essential qualifications in a
j student, I bowed submissively to my tutors, and whilst
j mentally noting what I saw, held myself in a receptive
j mood for any teachings that might be vouchsafed.
Thoughts were inspired which I will present as they came,
! growing out of surrounding circumstances. My spirit
| friends evidently wished to give me the why and the where-
I( | fore of the existence of these little beings; but presented a
| view of the subject which I do not remember to have met
| with elsewhere. I will repeat the thoughts as they seemed to
I spring up spontaneously, crude and irregular as they neces-
| sarily were at the time, as my mind took its own way to
| emerge from the darkness of ignorance, applying its newly
| inspired thoughts to its daily home experiences. After the
j following fashion did the reasonings of my spirit teachers,
| and my own applications mingle together.
|u As there is nothing without spirit, spirit must be the
| cause of everything we see with our material eyes. As the
spiritual exists first, would, therefore, the spirit cause of an
| earthly object have any shape or form to spirit eyes ? If so, it
j can be seen clairvoyant!y. As I have a spiritual or fluidic
| body, which may leave its earthly tenement and be seen
| elsewhere, may not this animal, this bird, this reptile have
| one too ? And as there are myriads of the lower creatures
i dying, we may say, every instant, what becomes of their
| floating, fluidic, or spiritual bodies waiting for new incarna-
| tions on the material plane ? May not these, then, be called
| elementary spirits? Are not elementary spirits enveloped
I in earthly bodies of dogs, horses, birds, lizards, butterflies,
I and all animals ? We are told that the soul passes through
I all the lower phases of material life, mineral, vegetable,
i animal, and then human: if so, may not the spiritual
! appearance of that fluidic entity progressing towards the
| perfection of human life, always be more or less in the
| ’ human form ? That would be a reason why I see these
! creatures in funny little human shapes. May not the par-
| ticular dog, horse, or lizard form be assumed as a convenient
| adaptation to the peculiar necessities of the earth-life? Or
I are these forms indeed absolute and immutable outward
i expressions of the stage of progress attained by the spirit
Sept. 7, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
entity thus embodied? I have been permitted to see the j j;
spirit or double of a horse, travelling alongside of the I |
labouring body. It was- precisely like the horse in all j |
respects t/tat time, whether it might appear differently at j
another time I do not know; but the spirit-shape of our j j
dear pet dove differs from its material shape. It is like a j j
little feathered man, who walks upright upon little clawed j j
feet, and has a beaked head. He understands affection, and ! |
feels the influence of my spirit, for I can call him out of his j j
body to nestle on my breast, and when I dismiss him he i j
goes back and is absorbed in his dove-body again; and I j I
perceive that he rejoices or delights in the glow of my affec- I j
tion, as much as in the body he rejoices in the warm I |
beams of the sun coming through the window. The j |
spirits about me give him a name—“ Nicopholin.” He j j
is a very interesting little fellow to me, but I have a j j
sort of shrinking fear of interfering with his spirit. Is ||!
it wrong, then? I take up in my hand this little pet | |
tortoise brought from the garden, and I am busily reflecting ! j
upon the spirit within its body, whilst I stroke its protruded j j
head, and hope to make it obey my will; but I feel my j j
spirit friends are opposed to what I am doing. I wonder | j
why? It seems to me very innocent. I replace the stupid j !
reptile in its box, and, I am told, “ Do not make pets of | |
those lower kinds of elementaries. Keep about you, love, j !
and cherish forms of the beautiful, which correspond to the j !
purer, higher spiritual life. These other things are harm- (Ji
less and innocent in themselves, and interesting as speci-
mens of the wonders of creation, but are not suited for pets, j j
Try not to violate the harmony of correspondences in your j |
earth-life. Keep about you those things which correspond I I
to the beauty of spirit you are struggling to obtain, and then j j
you will never shock your spirit friends.” So then, another | I
reflection: “Why do these ugly creatures exist?” I have ||
much to learn ! ^
From other things I have seen clairvoyantly, I again j
reflect: “ Must everything spiritual take a human shape? ” j
I am answered: “All things material have their spiritual I
counterparts, and the counterparts of things not made by i
man, by his handiwork, appear more or less in the human I
form.” I have seen compacted waves of elementaries, all |
resembling the human form, clinging close together very I
small, and floating in one mass, as if formed by a wind, i
When I saw them, thoughts crossed my mind of the spread- j
ing of infection, and I wondered if these appearances could |
have anything to do with disease germs. I have not had j
any explanation of the curious sight. j
But if there are ugly, repulsive, or appalling elementary I
forms, so are there others etherially beautiful beyond the I
fancy of man, making this world indeed fairy-land. Whilst |
I enjoyed this open vision of the spirits lower than our- j
selves, I had many an unexpected treat in my morning j
walks in the public gardens of the Pincio. My favourite i
locality was one not much frequented, a broad terrace walk, I j
bordered on one side by grassy beds, intersected by paths and ji
sprinkled over with beautiful evergreen trees of various (
kinds, and on the other protected by a wall, breast high, |
overlooking a steep descent. Here, in the quiet morning, j
only occasionally a priest walked up and down reading his |
breviary, or one or two strangers delighting in the view of j
the distant hills, and the groves of trees through which j)
peeps of statues could be obtained in the Borghese gardens. !
Seating myself upon the edge of a grassy bed, at the foot j
of some umbrageous fir, it was only necessary to fix my j (
thoughts upon these elfish invisibles, to have them suddenly |(
emerge from the most unexpected places. Sometimes the j j
most gracefal little fairy men and women, delighting them- j
selves with merry gambols in the grass ; at other times K
larger, Pack-like forms, running on all fours up the stems ||
of trees and leaping into covert behind the thick leaves, or |>
suspending themselves by one arm dangling in the air from j
a branch ; or seated comically with crossed legs, apparently j
eating something. Once I saw a huge creature, in colour j>
like the greenish light in the opal, and transparent; it re- |
minded me of the antediluvian animals, only that huge as it ||
was, from its colour, it was beautiful. It had a head some- ji
thing like a kangaroo’s, and I could not make out the shape j
of its body, for it dragged itself along in the grass, and I
seemed endless in, length. At last it vanished. Following
the fluttering butterfly I have seen its spirit shape in the
sunny air. Dashing in and out of the tiny waves made by
the bubbling fountains, sitting in the cups of the yellow water
lilies, or peeping from under the broad leaves, I have seen
the graceful water-sprites and undines, many and many a
time. The distant hill-sides have yielded up their hidden
inhabitants to my sight, and throngs of brown, earthy-look¬
ing little men would appear, and seem to be busily digging
and delving in the soil. Had they anything to do with the
changes constantly going on in the earth ? Were they pro¬
viding in their way for the necessities of their lives, and
were their struggles to reach a higher plane the means of
helping creatures still lower to rise?
The author of Art Magic describes many of these elemen¬
taries as being evil in their nature, serving men for evil pur¬
poses, and clustering around them to incite or aid them,
or at least rejoicing in their vices and evil deeds. Do these
then, perhaps urged by some necessity of their existence, take
form in hideous animal or reptile bodies ? And does it
happen that the more beautiful and purer never descend into
the ugly forms of nature ? The flower-sprites or elfs, are
most exquisitely beautiful, and have often come forth from
their lovely embodiments to meet my gaze. Sometimes the
whole form, sometimes only a heavenly face, beginning
like a tiny star, and suddenly expanding to full size,
lustrously shining, and with exquisite expression. Bat it is
impossible to describe the raying out, if I may so term it, of
one of these sunny faces from the breast of its flower home and
its gradual drawing in again, and disappearance. At other
times when the flowers were withered and dying, no longer
suited as habitations for these delicate beings, I have seen
their little spirit-shapes lying limp and fainting, clinging to
their material flower-forms, passing probably through a death
or change.
I have seen much more of a very curious nature, but this
paper has already reached a sufficient length. I present
these few experiences to your readers hoping to elicit from
better informed minds corrections of my errors should there
be any. I will add that my spirit friends do not permit me
to blindly swallow all that comes from the spirit-world.
They compel the exercise of my own reason and intellect,
even upon what they themselves give me—and indeed other
treatment of me would not be right.
I am as liable to mistakes as any one, and frankly and
freely confess my ignorance upon many subjects. Elementary
spirits, however, have been seen by several mediums—it is
then highly probable that they exist ; if so, what purpose do
they serve in the world ? Are the ideas instilled into my mind
reasonable or the contrary—-correct according to spiritual
and natural science, or impossible ?
August 31st, 1877.
‘c The world of visible things is but the body of this spiritual world,
which everywhere infuses its electric leaven of life into corresponding
forms by index from the eternal Being, and is the one sole liuhl
substance in the universe. In the spiritual world we are among
the essences of things, here we do but move among their manifesta¬
tions.”—Gerald Massey.
Immortality.-—The following thoughts are from an essay on Religion
and Science, by Professor H. B. Norton, read before the General Asso¬
ciation of California, at its annual meeting at Redwood City, last
October:—“ And, brethren, it seems to me that we may discern a
promise, and a prophecy even, in the universal spirit of questioning and
unrest. God is arising to shake the earth, that the things which cannot
be shaken may remain ; we are on the threshold of a new era. God
gives to each age the gifts that it most needs. The child leans upon its
parents, accepts their statements, reasons not, walks by implicit faith.
Humanity has lived as a child, but now the period of maturity is
approaching when it must put away childish things. We insist upon
knowing ; we demand proof of all things. And as God has provided
an answer to every question, so I believe he has to this. Thomas’s
doubts were as much honoured and as fully satisfied by our Lord as
was John’s unquestioning love. I believe that out of this fierce
doubting, questioning, praying for light, this restless striving, this
heart-hunger that will not be appeased, this wrestling in the darkness
with the Unknown One, whom we will not let go except he bless us,
will arise a solution grander than we have power to believe. First,
that which is natural, and afterward that which is spiritual. Modern
science is laying a foundation of exact methods and infallible results,
and these methods are being used in more and more subtle fields of
research. I believe that out of the border-land of dream, trance,
seership and the thaumaturgies of all ages, with their confused and
bafiling results, is yet to arise the science of immortality,’j
114
THE SEIEITTIALIST.
Sept. 7, 1877.
'MISS MARTINEAU AND CLAIRVOYANCE. j I
BT HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S. ;|i
Iij the case related by. Miss Martineau of the girl Emma’s j I
clairvoyant visit to my house, mention is made of a “long- |||
down picture ” hanging up. It was a general view of Rome j j
taken by myself from some rising ground. Now the expres- I j
sion “ long-down picture” seems to have no intelligible j)j
meaning. But the fact was that the picture was painted on j j
different pieces of paper,which I used to put together down on j j
the floor, that the whole might be seen in connection—the en- j !
tire general view, as seen from a particular spot. That it j j
was hanging up was an error, and I have often observed that j |
clairvoyance is partly thought-reflection, as by a sensitive j j
mirror, and partly true vision, as seems to have been the j||
case in this instance. j(j
Something additional is often added, suggested to the j |
imagination as in an ordinary dream, and which the seer is m
unable to distinguish and separate. It is just possible that j j
the “ long-down picture ” may have meant a long coloured j j
bas-relief resting down the whole length of the mantel- m
piece, and being about a foot high, and in a frame; such a k|
thing might be referred to as hanging up. That the girl tjj
should recognise the Elgin marbles, and casts of heads, &c., |||
in the back room is remarkable enough; but Miss Marti- j j
neau’s memory was a little at fault. With the five casts of j j
the family of idiots, there were not two large ones; they j j
were all five equally small, the smallness being the reason j j
of the mental inferiority. The casts are now in the Museum j |
of the Anthropological Society. That there should be an j j
occasional sympathy with such sensitive organs as our brain, j j
is surely no wonder, and there are facts concerning our ordi- | j
nary vision quite as perplexing as anything related of clair- j j
voyance. One class of facts will throw light upon the other, j !
and an induction must be made from the whole correlated j j
facts concerning vision. That brains should sympathise j |
is no more wonderful than the sounding and sensitive flame, !
or that musical strings should respond when specially related j
to each other. j
Boulogne, France, Sept. 4th, 1877. I j
METAPHYSICS AND MATERIALISM.
BY CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY. ! ( |
In a recent letter under the above heading I insisted on j
the philosophical demonstration of what, for my then and j j
present purpose may be loosely called idealism, as the abso- | |
lute and sufficient refutation of the popular and so-called | |
scientific materialism, which, in its metaphysical ignorance i)]
derives consciousness from the phenomena (assumed to be | |
noumena) which themselves exist only in and through con- j j
sciousness. It is with much satisfaction that I have just I j
seen this same position taken, and stated with far more i j
ability, by a very competent metaphysician, the Hon. Roden | j
Noel, in one of the papers of the article entitled “A Modern j j
Symposium,” in the new number of the Nineteenth Century. | |
This is a criticism, by several representative thinkers, of ! |
Mr. Frederick Harrison’s recent articles in the same perio- I j
dical, on the Soul and the Future Life. Mr. Harrison j j
denies, as decidedly as any avowed materialist, the existence | |
or possibility of existence, of spirit independent upon and j
separate from the physical organism. “ To talk to us of mind, | j
feeling, and will continuing their functions in the absence of j I
physical organs and visible organisms, is to use language 1)1
which, to us at least, is pure nonsense.” With his attempt j j
to discriminate his position from that of simple downright j j
materialism, we have here no concern. Let him escape, if j !
he can, from the logical goad by which Professor Huxley I j
seeks to drive him into the fold. Let him show also, if he I j
can, that Mr. Hutton has not convicted him of an ignorant j j
misrepresentation of the hopes and the ideal which he Vi
denounces as “selfish.” Mr. Noel’s reply is good | |
against him, and against all who hold that conscious j j
life is a mere result and function of physical or- i j
ganism. “In short, our bodies, on any view of them !l|
science herself has taught us, are percepts and concepts of ijj'
ours—I don’t say of the soul or mind, or any bete noire of j j
the sort, but q/ our selves, who surely cannot be altogether I j
betes noires. They are as much percepts and concepts of j j
Uirg as is the material world outside them, Are they tvi
coloured ? Colour, we are told, is a sensation. Are they
hard or soft ? These are our sensations, and relative to us.
The elements of our food enter into relations we name
living ; their molecules enter into that condition of unstable
equilibrium ; there is motion of parts fulfilling definite, in¬
telligible, and constant uses, in some cases subject to our
own intelligent direction. But all this is what appears to
our intelligence, and it appears different, according to the
stages of intelligence at which we arrive ; a good deal of it
is hypothesis of our own minds. Readers of Berkeley and
Kant need not be told this ; it is now universally acknow¬
ledged by the competent. The atomic theory is a working
hypothesis of our minds only. Space and time are relative
to our intelligence, to the succession of our thoughts, to our
own faculties of motion, motion being also a conception of
ours.” I would commend the whole of this article to your
readers; in what follows the above extract there are hints
of a very high philosophy. Nor does Mr. Noel wholly
ignore the direct evidence which to the students of pheno¬
menal Spiritualism is so convincing of that which is “ pure
nonsense” to Mr. Harrison. It is but a passing allusion as
befits a speculative paper. “ Many in all ages have believed
that the dead have spoken to us from beyond the grave.”
PROFESSOR GREGORY’S BOOK ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Public Opinion of last "week says :—
If mesmerism, like phrenology, has fallen during the last twenty
years into contempt, it is the fault of the mediums and the professors
of the science itself. For when we perceive the philosophical manner
in which persons like the late Dr. Elliotson and others examined the
phenomena, there was really nothing to be desired in the way of im¬
provement of method. And the facts, such as they were, were as
likely to be true as not. It is far different with the “ mesmerism,” or
“ animal magnetism” of the present day, which appears to be confined
to a very small section of persons, and not to be represented by a single
leading (qualified) medical practitioner. This flaw in the mesmerism
“ of the period” will be easily remedied by the perusal of Dr. Gregory’s
excellent work. Mr. Harrison, the editor, who has evidently per¬
formed a task for which he was thoroughly qualified, as a labour of
love, says that he would have “ preferred to have altered the title of
the present work to Mesmerism and its Phenomena, since the word
‘ magnetism ’ has a recognised meaning among scientific men, and the
psychical facts mentioned in the book are not primarily, if at all,
related to magnetism proper, except in the sense that bonds of union
exist throughout all nature. The prefix ‘animal’ of course qualifies
the term, but it is better to have a new name altogether, to avoid
possible confusion.” We ourselves have no objection to the term
“ mesmerism” as a mere epithet, provided the idea is not intended to
be conveyed that Mesmer was the original discoverer, or intelligent
describer of anything; and that it is tacitly understood that he was a
mere bungling adapter of the rejected theories of his predecessors.
Mr. Harrison is a most painstaking editor, and, as a literary effort, the
present volume, containing Dr. Gregory’s collection of verified facts in
relation to mesmerism is the best accumulation of evidence and testi¬
mony on the subject that we have ever read.
The Monetary Gazette of last week says :—
The publication of the second edition of this excellent standard
work supplies a fitting occasion to speak of its acknowledged merits
and usefulness. The late learned author enjoys a high and influential
rank in literature for his works on chemistry, of which science he was
a master as well as a professor. Nor has his work on Animal Mag¬
netism a less favourable reputation. It is a clear and able digest of
the best studies on the subject, and though science generally has made
many considerable strides since it was first published, yet on the par¬
ticular domain surveyed by this work, science has not rendered anti¬
quated and inapplicable to our times the wealth of facts and arguments
with which this volume abounds. It remains still a valuable text book
and a standard work.
It is impossible for us to attempt anything like an analysis of this
able exposition of ‘magnetism ’ with its cognate subjects, mesmerism,
electro-biology, psychology, or the odic force of Baron Von Reichen-
bach. The phenomena cover a wide but interesting field ; but an ex¬
haustive review would absorb the entire space of a single issue of the
Monetary Gazette. We can, however, recommend this special study as
one in which may be found the key to many of the secrets of life—a
study at once the most profound, and of the most practical importance.
We can as heartily recommend to students to place themselves under
the guidance of this volume, which the learning and industry of the
late Professor bequeathed to mankind.
Nor should it be overlooked that the wife of the late Dr. Gregory,
who survives him, was ever his companion and help in the labour
which he loved so well. During his residence in Aberdeen, though
formally Professor of Materia Medica, yet by mutual understanding
with the authorities he taught chemistry, and in the experiments which
became necessary in consequence of that undertaking, he was greatly
assisted by Mrs. Makdougall-Gregory, for during a considerable time
of his residence in that northern seat of learning he was a sufferer from
the effects of a serious accident, and such help became a necessity to
turn, The authorities of the University at first objected to this feminine
Sept. 7, 1877.
THE SPilllfTJALlSl).
‘ 115
assistance, for with the usual Phariseeism of scholarly dons, they were
slow to recognise the faculty of woman to labour in the fields of science.
But Mrs. Makdougall-Gregory, who was as ardent in the work as her
husband, urged that Dr. Gregory’s predecessor, Dr. Forbes, had been
allowed the assistance of his daughter, and the worthies of the Uni¬
versity, discomfited by a woman’s ad captandum argument, were fain
to submit and close the controversy.
The editor, Mr. Harrison, influenced no doubt by the breadth of the
questions opened up to view in this volume, and further by the con¬
sideration that the term “magnetism” has now acquired a definite and
limited significance—appears to have been strongly tempted to change
the title of the book to Mesmerism and its Phenomena. We think,
however, that he has done wisely to take refuge in the reflection that
the prefix “ animal ” qualifies the term and renders the title sufficiently
appropriate, and to retain a title which the author preferred, and by
which the work is so well known.
THE HEALING POWERS OF MESMERISM.
From “ The Highlander?
In reference to your review of Coinneach Odhar in The Highlander,
in which you allude to the treatment of disease, and mention an Asso¬
ciation in Edinburgh for that purpose, I had the honour to be secretary
to that society (of which the late Dr. Gregory, Professor of Chemistry,
was president). I felt interested in your remarks, and thought of
sending you some communication on the subject. In the meantime I
enclose the following paper by a friend of mine, which I have no doubt
will give your readers some insight into this most interesting and useful
power. James Cameron.
There is another method of cure, or, at least, of alleviation, to which we
direct your attention, concerning which we speak with the confidence of
experience; for many of us practice it, and many more have experienced
the benefits of its dispensation. We have learned that every healthy
person has a power to bless his fellow men by a communication of his
health to those who are distressed—that as there is sometimes a con¬
tagion of disease from contact of bodies, there is as certainly a con¬
tagion of health through the same means. This is most copiously
eliminated and transmitted through the hands. When, therefore, one
lays his hands on another (passive) person, observing as a general rule
that the right hand be laid on the left side, and the left hand on the
right side of the patient—covering as far as possible, with one or both
hands, the part affected—in a short time a vital current is established
through the region lying between the extremities of the operator’s
hands. (This reversing of plurality or sides tends to augment the
natural intensity of vital influence.) In most cases an agreeable
tickling sensation is experienced in the part operated upon; although
sometimes the pain is intensified, as if all its virulence were aroused
previous to its departure. When the case is one of weakness rather
than pain, care should be taken not to allow the current to be too
strong, disagreeably strong; a partial withdrawal of the hands will
qualify it to any extent desired.
We find, also, that almost every case of pain may be alleviated by
another healthy person stroking with his hand (downwards) over the
part affected; these strokes, or passes, being made in contact when the
pain is not too severe on the surface, or at a short distance when it is
—the intervention of the clothing does not much matter. Care should
be taken in bringing up the hands again to turn the backs of them to¬
wards the patient, or to keep them at a distance, that the current thus
established may not be reversed by the upward motion. If the pain is
very acute, as in toothache, headache, or severe rheumatism, an advan¬
tage is gained by using exertion, as if drawing the pain out; making the
passes towards the nearest joint, angle, or extremity of the body, or to
the head of a sore.
After the pain is removed (which may be generally expected within
half-an-hour), gentle breathing on the place will prevent its return. As
far as practicable, the above directions regarding polarity should be at¬
tended to in these strokes, or passes ; and in breathing upon any part
the precaution should be taken to withdraw the mouth to inhale fresh
air, turning the head from the patent. There is a danger of the acting
hand being infected with the pain of the part acted upon; consequently
the necessity for occasionally blowing upon it, or shaking it in the air,
as if to disperse the morbid aura which may be hanging about it; and
after the operation is done, the hands should be washed with cold water.
Every one essaying to be a healer should study himself to observe per¬
sonal cleanliness, and all the other conditions of health.
For all derangements of the nervous system no remedy seems to be
so efficient as this—when a general nervous irritation is experienced, it
may almost always be soothed by long passes being made down the
whole body without contact—thus the vexatiousness incident to teething
may be soothed, and the general disposition quieted. Soothing passes
and breathing made on a burn or scald will accelerate its cure. Whit¬
low may be dispersed, even in its earliest stages, by drawing passes;
toothache sometimes removed in a few minutes by laying on the hands;
paralysis cured by daily or twice a day application of long passes.
Falling sickness or epilepsy patients usually tend to fall asleep
under the gaze of the eye and passes made over the face and head—
this coma, or sleep, is the proper restorative in such a case. Insanity,
as it arises from incessant restlessness of the brain, may frequently be
removed by repeated applications of the soothing passes. And so of
many other cases.—From The Messenger of the Churches.
We have received several letters about Miss Wood and her medium-
ship, and will before long deal with the whole subject.
A TRANCE LECTURE.
The following abridgment of a trance address, delivered recently in
New York by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond, and published in
The Banner of Light of August 25th, was announced to have been given
through her mediumship by the spirit of the late Robert Dale Owen:—
Oh, Thou Divine Beneficence, Thou Infinite Spirit, we approach
Thee with thankful hearts, and through lofty meditation and thought of
truth we would seek the inspiring power of Thy presence; that presence
which is for ever made manifest; that power which is divine and
perfect; that life which, extending through all forms of being, links the
atom with the Infinite, and the soul of man with Thee. Oh God! Thou
past and future life, the soul is summoned to Thy Divine control by all
forms of nature, and every living thing pourtrays the perfection of Thy
law. We would praise that law, the perfection of which fills the soul
with admiration and joy; we would praise Thy love, which is Thy life,
and which every soul inherits, and from spheres of immortal blessed¬
ness beyond the veil and shadow of time, Thy children would draw
aside the mist that separates the outer from the inner world, by the
subtle law of change men call death. Oh, let the children of earth,
casting aside their fear and terror, enter the vestibule of Thy temple of
knowledge leading to eternity ; let them behold the laws banding
together the visible with the invisible,'the inner with the outer world.
Let ministering spirits, with soft, appealing voices, attend, and linking
their lives with the celestial, remind them that life on earth is but the
fleeting shadow of a vision compared to the reality. May the utterances
of this night be inspired by Thy love and Thy truth, and may the hearts
of those who listen be filled with the knowledge that shall come to them,
until the two worlds shall be no longer apart and divided, but all shall
be united and all shall name Thee our Father and our God.
Mr. Chairman and Friends—for I feel that I am not a stranger in
your midst, so lately here in person, so truly here to-night—I little
thought that the time would be so soon when, having burst the bonds of
outward sense, I could speak as one having authority; when, seeing
through a glass darkly, I should so soon see face to face the reality of
spirit-life.
To-night I have been invited to give you an account of my transition
from the outer to the inner world, and of my reception in spirit-life.
You must bear with me. I am unaccustomed to this kind of control,
though it was perfectly familiar to me as an observer when on earth.
Up to the last hour of my mortal existence I had as positive knowledge
as is given to mortals to have, of the existence upon which I was about to
enter. Death came to me no unwelcome visitor; friends on both sides,
equally dear, summoned me to both lands, but the time allotted to
humanity had already transpired; and my life, as you know, had been
right in faith, if not in deed, for many years. That faith which was
born of knowledge was no holiday gift, no bestowment of intellectual
spasm, and no result of morbid theological fancy. For twenty years I
have had knowledge ; for fifteen years I have never had a doubt of the
existence beyond death, and the possibility of spirits communicating
with mortals. But as the morning gradually dawns upon the earth, as
the summer-time constantly approaches in the footsteps of spring, and
brings her own peculiar loveliness, that no prophecy of morning or
spring can afford, so the transition from knowledge to experience, from
observation on your side of life to observation on the spiritual side, is as
great as the advent of day after the night. I speak with no hyper¬
bolical language; there is no word to express the change which death
brings to the spirit; there is no language to typify the life of which for
the first time I became certain that I was the real inheritor. The
knowledge which I believed I possessed upon earth was indeed know¬
ledge, so far as the senses could give it; the knowledge which came to
me on my departure from earth was the certainty of absolute possession.
No moment of the expiring or receding ray of mortal existence was lost
to my spiritual consciousness; at no interval of time did I feel that I was
going to sleep, or that the power of my individual life was fading from
me; at no instant did I feel severed from either world; conscious alike
of the ministering power of beloved ones on earth, and gradually becom¬
ing more and more conscious of the ministering power of spirit friends,
I found my spirit-land all about me. I was not borne through the air;
1 experienced no sensation of sleep; no interval of time between the
outer and the inner consciousness; I saw gradually what I had not
seen before—what seemed to fall to my vision as the revelation after a
veil had been removed—the people of the spiritual existence near me, as
though they had been waiting for me always. I saw that the film fell
from my eye as the bodily strength decreased, and I gradually became
aware of spiritual existence and spirit scenes, as one standing in a mist
among the mountains might suddenly, as the clouds would rise and dis¬
appear, become aware of the landscape around him.
My spirit-world was where I died; the friends who had preceded me
into spirit existence were there; they smiled upon me as though they
had known I was coming for a long time; they were ready to receive me
as if they had been waiting by my side for many a day expecting
j that I would slip out from my earthly tabernacle ; they seemed awafe
that my sojourn on earth had nearly expired; and there was my father,
] benign, not in his old age, but in full vigour of manhood, smiling at me as
j though I were a boy again, and he had come to teach me something new.
I All this was so familiar and so entirely in keeping with what I expected,
that I was not even astonished, not certainly at the presence of my
friends, the dearest one of my household, my family, who had preceded
me, but there was a surprise. It came in my own consciousness and
feeling, it came in the possession of powers of which I was not aware,
it came in that transcendent sense of life which I never experienced on
j earth, not like youth, not like early manhood, not like any intoxication
j which any draught could give, was the sense which came to me of inex-
| pressible life, a feeling of buoyancy as though there had never been a
j physical bond; as though pain, and dust, and weight, and time, and
' sense, had all departed. If I could prefigure to you, or convey in one
116
ffiE SPlEITUALtSt.
Sept. % 187t.
word the term and meaning of that transcendent experience when for
the first time the soul feels fetterless, when the freedom of the spirit to
think and feel is absolute and seemingly boundless, when all possibilities
seem to rise at once as accomplished facts, and every hope and desire of
the mind seems capable of fulfilment, because of the possession of the
power which is within. This is no exceptional state in me; aware that
from long habit of thought, and from accustomed communion with spirit-
life my mind was well prepared for this, I know since that many spirits
who have no such outward knowledge are in reality prepared spiritually
for this higher birth. It is a spiritual state, it is a state of exaltation, it
is a redemption which comes to man after the fatigue and labour and
comparative toil of life are over. Easy as was my daily path when I
made it so by my mind and pen, and easy as were the allotted hours of
my appointed labours upon earth, and easy as were the subjects of con¬
templation to grasp when thought and determination were set to bear
upon them, I found obstacles which had perplexed my way suddenly
removed, as if I had come from behind a ledge of rocks, and now could
see the grey sky and ocean before me.
This sensation of death you will not experience, probably, until you
pass through the change clairvoyants describe. Many persons who
pass into abnormal conditions may realise it somewhat, but the unfet¬
tering of the soul from the body is the one thing that death reveals,
and with it the hidden powers that otherwise seem to slumber, and are
in some measure hampered by the physical senses. I observed strangely
enough that my physical body was still perfectly apparent to me, that
the friends upon earth were still visible, and I only seemed to have
had an added glimpse of life, of scene, of atmosphere, of being, that
I could not see with my mortal vision. Not being clairvoyant upon
earth, never having seen except such manifestations as were given
through others, possessing knowledge only through the physical senses,
I could not previously understand as I now do the meaning of that
inward light, that perception of the spirit which seems to comprehend
all senses, and makes mind as well as matter visible to disembodied
spirits. To-night, therefore, as really in your midst, the double faculty
of seeing your body and perceiving the spiritual atmosphere is mine,
and with that the perception of all this spiritual realm that lies about
you, which I find is not removed to some remote point in space, but
accompanies you, hovers near you, attends upon your footsteps, is a
portion of your daily life, and when the soul breaks through the barriers
of time and sense, reveals the beloved one by your side. The spirit-land
is no far-off realm. I find not a few spirits who have no thoughts beyond
the earth, but if they have sympathies with human beings who are
aspiring to lofty thoughts, they remain near to inspire and unlift them,
and this atmosphere of which I speak is a portion of the spiritual atmo¬
sphere surrounding you. I do indeed perceive that there are dense
places upon the earth and spirit atmospheres above the earth where it
would seem scarcely possible for spiritual light to penetrate, but even
there some redeeming thought or some kindly deed frequently illumines
the surrounding darkness, and higher spirits attend.
But for the most part the spiritual existence of your friends who are
newly departed is quite near to you; they are taken charge of, are
made familiar with the scenes of spirit-life, and those who are in
sympathy with them abide near them, as they abide near to you; and
my affections being about equally divided between the spiritual and the
earthly life, I assure you I have no intention of leaving the atmosphere
of earth until, by communication and by constant effort, I shall possess
myself of the facts on this side of existence, as wholly as I did upon the
mortal side. I mean to make every effort, not only to express myself in
this manner, which by permission of her guides and the gifts of this
medium I am enabled to do to-night, but also to try my powers at every
form of manifestation which I have ever witnessed, to possess myself of
the required information, that I may, if possible, state it in a manner
which I often longed to have stated to me while I was still an investi¬
gator, and which, for the benefit of other investigators, I shall certainly
endeavour to state from this side of existence. I now find that the
aspirations and certainties concerning spiritual existence which came to
me were not only real in the sense of manifestations and presence, but
real in a more transcendent sense than this; that all the thought or
hope of spiritual life, all the aspiration for the reality of friendship and
the continuance of genial companionship is more than realised. You
and I have experienced these things—that is some of us—in a degree,
that we were severed from time and space and death by conversation, by
hallowed experiences, by our own intelligent and intellectual pursuits ;
I find spiritual life is even more than this, personal, and especially
gratifying to the social, the intellectual, and the spiritual thought of man.
I find that real here that was not real upon earth; the sympathy of
friends becomes the strongest tie here, and no outward change of cir¬
cumstance or distance seems to affect that bond. As spiritual life is not
a material substance compared with the substance of earth, so whatever
composes the happiness or unhappiness of a spirit is the result of his or
her inward state.
The spheres of which you hear so much I find to be conditions or
states of spiritual life depending upon the thought and spiritual growth,
and liable to exist anywhere; so that to-night there may be numberless
spheres represented in this room, and your spirit friends attending upon
you may represent as many grades of thought as yours.
*)£ "H5 •${» ^
I passed into other fields of thought, of science, of philosophy, of art,
of religion; I found no idleness, I found none unemployed, I found
none indifferent, I found all acting and working for the benefit of
others, and thereby gaining knowledge for themselves. I found that
in proportion to their ministration and communication of knowledge
was the attainment of knowledge. I found the seclusion of students
and the possibilities of fraternal communings alike permissible, and
alike the result of unselfish desire for truth and the wish to communi¬
cate it to others. Above all things, I found an increasing desire in
payself not only to discover the various methods of spiritual existence,
but to communicate them to others, to my friends upon earth. Oh
that so-and-so could know this! Oh that my friends who expressed
such a doubt could be aware of this ! And then I thought for all
minds in spirit-life who have this yearning and desire, how few are the
channels through which they can converse with mortals, and how long
the time that it takes for preparation to inaugurate an intelligent
system of converse between the two worlds. Friends, remove the
barriers, take down the walls of fear and prejudice, invite union at the
family circle, let the mediums by your fireside be unfolded, let the
daughter, the child that is clairvoyant, see visions of spirit-life, let
there be this steady flow of intelligence; it will uplift, sustain, and
strengthen, nor will it mar the pursuits of daily life, but, on the con¬
trary, make them more and more ennobling by infusing this element
of spiritual existence into your daily drudgery. If I had a thousand
voices, and could speak through a thousand tongues this night, I would
say let the spiritual life receive its due proportion of consideration at
your hands ; let there be no putting off to a more convenient season
of that investigation which interests you all; let it take possession of
your daily life, let it become a portion of your existence, as your food,
and the air that you breathe ; thereby you will come to breathe more
and more the spiritual atmosphere, and thereby you will—like some
of my friends whom I see here, and who have already passed beyond
the fear of death—have entered the spiritual life even before your
bodies pass through the final change.
As for me, I know that, without boasting, I can say I fulfilled the
prophecy of John in the wonderful Apocalypse. “ There was no
death,” and the new Jerusalem that came down to me, adorned like a
bride for the bridegroom was indeed the life, the immortality into
which, as with a spring, I plunged fearlessly and buoyantly, and that,
awakened all that endearing association which now thrills and fills my
life, I would communicate to you, that you, too, may seek and know,
until all the air of earth shall cease to resound with dismal fear, and
complaining, and murmuring about death, and you shall abide in the
spiritual state where I now find myself one with them and one with
you.
Feeble as is this utterance, I thank you for your attention, and for
listening to me in this manner. Again and again I shall try, until at
last I shall be able to perfectly, through this and through other in¬
strumentalities, express myself to you, individually as friend, and col¬
lectively as brother and kindred spirit. Good night.
Correspondence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes expressopinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be Jceptby the writers.1
MATERIALISATION OS' SPIRIT HEADS.—NO. 10.
Aug. 20th, Monday.—I have told how I was yesterday mesmerised by
Glaucus, for some twenty or twenty-five minutes, with a vigorous
manipulation, for an extremely severe (lumbago) pain in my back,
which gave me all the sensation of having a spinal column broken at
one of the lower vertebrae. I returned to the siance to-day considerably
better, though far from cured. He again mesmerised me in a similar
way for about five minutes, again producing great relief. He again
made on me the sign of the Cross, as before. John King asked for a
piece of paper, which Glaucus would mesmerise for me to wear. A leaf
was torn from'a blank book at hand, delivered, and after a few minutes
returned; but I was told to bring a larger quantity, and of thick brown
paper. The Count was also told to bring a good quantity, which would
then be useful for him to give or send to persons wanting relief from
pain. We were told to be ready to-morrow evening for another mould,
and that he meant to try to astonish us.
It may interest mesmerising healers among your readers to be told
how the spirit operated. John King was speaking from behind the cur¬
tain when I suddenly felt a hand laid on my shoulder, and moving down
my back. “This is you, dear and revered master, is it not?” The
hand gave three gentle strokes on the side of my head for Yes, and then
immediately was applied to the spot of my pain, where it rested for a
few moments. Then there were two hands pressing one on each side of
the spot. Presently there was a rubbing downward, with strong pres¬
sure, chiefly in the region affected, but occasionally down the whole
spinal column, and mingled with a good deal of what I may call strong
kneading or shampooing. The rear buttons of my suspenders were
unfastened, and the hand introduced down, inside of the drawers, so that
the shirt alone separated it from the skin. Occasionally the hand would
rest quiet, but finally on the spot, and several times, while it was thus
placed, the other hand was applied either to the top of my head or to my
chest, as though to establish a mesmeric current. The pressure was often
so strong as to give a degree of pain hard to bear. Once (to-day) the two
hands were placed on the two sides of my head, and either a knee or a
foot (I thought it felt more like the latter) applied to the damaged spot,
and so held for perhaps half a minute. Once my head was pressed
forward and made to rest against the forehead of the Count, while the
manipulation was going on, his head being moved forward to meet mine.
On both days my hand was taken, and I was lifted up from my chair so
as to stand upright, and then pushed quickly back into my seat, this
being repeated about a dozen times, with an accelerating rapidity, as
though by the exercise to give suppleness to a stiffened condition. To¬
day, when this was again done, my chair was withdrawn from behind
me, and I was pushed down to the very floor, so as to sit upon it, and
then lifted up again to my feet, by the spirit hand on one side and the
Count helping on the other, this taking place five or six times. I sup¬
press ,my various ejaculations, sometimes of pain, sometimes of wonder
and gratitude (and not to Glaucus alone), while John King from behind
the curtain would occasionally tell me to keep quiet. When all was
over John King asked how I now felt. I was able to rise and move my
'j?H£ SPIItl^UALISf.
Sept.' f\ 1877.
il7
body about with comparative ease and freedom from pain. I hoped that
I was entirely cured, but the pain afterwards declared itself to be still
there, but in degree greatly reduced. And that is. the way I was mes¬
merised yesterday and to-day by a materialised spirit asserting himself
to be “ G-laucus,” a point on which, from much past experience with the
same spirit, I have not the slightest doubt.
August 22wd, Wednesday.—Everything was ready last evening (and
it costs the Firmans no small amount of trouble and labour to melt
150 lbs. paraffin, and prepare the etceteras'), but no mould was given, and
we were put off till to-morrow. The reason given was that the spirit
meant to be moulded was frightened, and did not come. She was a
“very young girl, and very timid.” I said, “But two other young girls
have already done it, and why should she now be afraid ? ” The quick
retort came: “ Plenty of young girls have had teeth drawn successfully,
and their toothache cured, hut does that prevent every fresh one being
frightened at sitting down in the dentist's chair?" He would not tell us
who the spirit was; but afterwards, in writing, he alluded to her as
“ Marie," presently adding, “ Oh, there, Pve let the name out after all."
Now, “Marie” was a young mulatto Cuban slave girl, daughter of the
Countess’s nurse, of about her own age, and the two had grown up
together in the intimate affection which is frequent under those circum¬
stances, in which kindness and affection on the one side, are very apt to
be reciprocated with idolatry on the other. Marie died at 18, in Paris,
about 18 years ago. Hers is one of the moulds which had been
promised, the Countess having expressed a strong desire for it. John
King said, “ She shall come the next time, and, if necessary, to give her
courage, Angela will dip again before her eyes." He presently asked how
we should like “ Angela ” to make her mould this time, with her eyes open
or shut ? The Count gave no decision. “ But I think you (addressing
me) would rather have them shut, wouldn't you, for the sake of a varia¬
tion?" “ Oh, by all means, and I am sure she will be beautiful with
her eyes shut.” (He knew I would look at it from the point of view of
the argument and proof.) And I think it is so intended.
But though we got no mould last evening, John did his best to “ com¬
pensate to us for the disappointment” (so he expressed it). He came
out with his “lamp,” much larger and brighter than we had ever before
seen it. It was no longer like a medium-sized turnip, but spherical, like
an orange of the largest size, but phosphorically white and luminous.
In order to see him clearly it was no longer necessary that he should
hold his light close to his face, and promenade it over his figure. Held
out at full arm’s length by himself, we could see his face and form more
clearly than he usually shows it by holding his lamp close to it. It was
not enclosed in a cloth, the gathered ends of the cloth constituting a
handle (as is generally, though not always, the case), but was naked,
and held by some sort of handle (see the photographs). He allowed us to
touch it, and its surface was smooth and hard, with a certain feel which
the Count well expressed as of something onctueux, unctuous. He would
sometimes hold it steady, and again make rapid circles with it in the
air. Once he made with it a grand sign of the Cross. He finally did a
very curious thing. He held it over our heads, and there dropped down
upon us quite a little inundation of a most delicious perfume. The top
of my head was all wet with it, and it flowed down over my face.
He asked us to produce our handkerchiefs, and he perfumed them
with it profusely—that is, those of the Count, Countess, and myself;
as Mrs. Firman had not any, she received her share in the lap of
her thin muslin dress, held up for the purpose. Where did this
liquid perfume come from ? It would seem to have come from some
hollow in the heart of the stone, but the discharge of it (through the
handle in that case), did not make any change in the luminosity or
general appearance of the “ stone.” The odour seemed to me to con¬
tain something of the very finest and most delicate Cologne, with a
tint of lavender, and a certain peculiar oriental odour, not unfamiliar
to me, as always attaching to the mysterious apports I have witnessed
in the saloon of Madame Blavatsky, in New York, objects purporting
to have come, in an instant, from the heart of “ far Cathay.”* We
intend to ask John King for a flagon or two of this exquisite perfume.
Shall we get it?
Aug. 2Uh, Saturday.—No mould yet. There has been no sufficient
power. “ Angela ” has written that she is preparing Marie for it, and
that she will stand by her when she dips, to give her courage. Have
had another of my little “ scrimmages ” with John, not worth relating.
He has told us, in response to interrogation, that the liquid perfume
came from a hollow in the centre of his stone; and that it was not let
out through an orifice in the handle, the whole stone being solid. “ Then
how did it come out?” “ By will-power."—“ Then it is another case
of matter passing through matter ?” “ Yes."—“ And to do that, I sup¬
pose, you disintegrate the particles of the two bodies of matter of which
the one is to pass through the other, and then the particles can slip by
each other ?” “ Exactly." He also told us that he formed the perfume
out of particles in the atmosphere, just as he formed the materialised
heads, &c., and as he formed the stone out of phosphoric particles
(which he has said he takes from our heads). He has said that he
would give us a little of the perfume in a phial if we would bring one.
A curious incident occurred the evening before last (that of the eclipse
* Just as, in that lady’s inagical saloon, I have also heard, in the air, between the ceiling
and my ears, faint music, such as I had been told (by Col. Olcott, as well as others) had
often been there and thus heard—music given on my request, that I too might hear what
others had often heard—music which, on my request, sounded there with no apparent pos¬
sibility of its production by natural means, and which she and Olcott declared to have come
on a wave of “ astral fluid ”—as a sort of spiritual telephone—from an old spinnet, or
music-machine, in the possession of a friend of hers, an “ Adept,” Her request, in pursuance
of mine to her, had reached him in his Antipodal home in Thibet, where she (Madame
Blavatsky), had been familiar of old with that worn-out old instrument, and the airs it
played! ■ I do not answer for all this—how can I ? I can only say that I heard the music,
which no ordinary human means could have produced, or existed there to produce. I saw
“ miraculous apports produced before my incredulous but covered eyes.” Olcott assured
me that such apports 'were a matter of frequent occurrence there. While the music was
sounding, Madame Blavatsky was moving to and fro in the air a large pair of scissors, and
in answer to my question afterwards said that that was for the purpose of aiding the
arrival of the current, which is sometimes liable to interruption. No one who knows them
pan possibly doubt the perfect good faith both of that lady and of Col, Oicott,
|(| of the moon). John had been talking pretty freely, when his voice
| j suddenly stopped. He presently rapped for the alphabet, by means of
\)\ which he said, “ The power is all gone." The seance came to a close.
Kj When the Count awakened Firman from his sleep, we found that he
j)j could not utter a word nor a sound, and looked utterly bewildered.
|(| After a while, under mesmerisation by the Count, he recovered his
Kj voice. We supposed that he had taken a sudden cold, from the window
j>j having been left upon. This was the only time the window was left
i| open, John King having prompted it. Firman generally comes out
]vi from the cabinet with his face streaming with perspiration. We also
i)| presumed that the breaking down of John’s voice was an effect, or a
j(j consequence of the breaking down of Firman’s. The next day I asked
lyj John if there was not some connection between the two. He answered
I that there was, but not what we supposed; that his (John King’s) power
| (j had suddenly failed entirely, and so abruptly that he had no time to
|) j restore to the vocal organs of the medium what he had taken from them
l)| to form his own. He said that he had no idea of what had caused the
Hi sudden cessation of the power; something in the atmosphere, he sup-
|?| posed. I wonder whether it had any connection with the eclipse—that
|)| is to say, with the interruption of the radiation of the light and heat
j (! from the moon to us, with some conceivable electrical effects.
Hi August 26(A.—Nothing remarkable except a third mesmerising of my
i) i back by Glaucus; very much as before. I had said that there was some
I little pain left. This time, in the course of the operation, he applied his'
| hand to my back, even inside of the shirt. And, besides several times
| making the sign of the Cross in front, as before, he also made it three
| times on the back itself, over the part affected. Very strange all this!
but it hardly seems to be, what “the church ” {i.e., the Jesuits) call it,
j the work of the enemy of the Cross.
1 To give a further idea of the religious tone and spirit which pervade
these seances, I am tempted to transcribe the following recent communi¬
cation from Glaucus to the Count and Countess, written (backward)
through the hand of Firman. They are Catholics; the former a very
| liberal one; in regard to the Countess, I neither know nor care for her
i shade of opinion. I am no Catholic at all, unless with a. little of that
esoteric Christianity which the Church would send to the stake if it yet
| had the power. All our spirits recognise GOD, and Christ as a very
|( | high Spirit now, and a great Prophet in the earth life, and His Virgin
! Mother as also a holy and pure spirit—as no doubt she is:—
I (I Dearly beloved son and daughter, I am glad to look again on your beloved
| \ j faces. Although you did not see me, I saw you, and, as usual, I asked the
!) i Glreat and Holy God, His Most Holy Son, and that pure and holy Virgin
j) I Mother, to bless you, and be with you. Oh, my son and daughter, may your
|(i lives be drawn in pleasant places. May you ever bask in the pure sunlight of
|| the most glorious and everlasting countenance of the Great and Holy One ;
| He who is I AM, yea, That I AM. Think, my beloved son and daughter, of
i His great love for all. Think not of Him as a God of vengeance, but as a
j God of pure and holy Love, a God and a Father who leads His children up to
| His throne to bless them, and to have them bask in the light of His most holy
| countenance. I have now no more to say; but may ye whom I love with all
i my heart, yea, with all my soul, partake of that great and boundless loving-
| kindness, is my earnest prayer. Good-bye. God bless ye, and the Holy and
Sweet Virgin Mother comfort ye for ever and ever. Glaucus, Vale.
| September 1.—Nothing further of interest to record till yesterday.
The power has been weak, and John King has again put off the next
| mould, but told us that the next time he fixed a day he would not
|} | again disappoint us, as he had to do the last time ; I suppose he wants
|)| to be very sure, which is not always easy even twenty-four hours
III in advance. We always tell him to take his own time ; that we know
i (I he and the others do their best, and that we are too thankful for what
(j we do get to complain or be impatient that we do not get more. He
||s is strong in praise of our patience—or rather that of the Count.
Yesterday was present a Brussels friend, Mr. Boyard, a highly re-
j j spectable chemist (analytical and engineering); one of the leading
I) I Spiritualists of Belgium. No materialised forms were shown, except that
j | of John King himself; but he exhibited his light pretty well; it was of full
| (I size, like a long orange, though not very light. He gave Mr. Boyard
m a good grasp of his hand. I asked him to raise that gentleman’s hand
I up to the ceiling. “ What's the use of that ? " Presently he di'ew the
i) | curtain aside, he being well visible inside of the cabinet, and told him
|| to look at the medium on the couch. But the light, which he did not
|)| put down close enough to the medium, was not good for the distance
m at which we sat, and it passed so quickly that we did not clearly dis-
1)1 tinguish him in his dark clothes on the dark-coloured couch, though
I (| it was done twice. * On our saying so, John King then had recourse to the
i | other test mode, which I had before suggested, but which he had not
i (! complied with, of satisfying the stranger that the John King who appeared
j (I before him was not Firman masquerading, namely, he took him by the
|i hand and raised him up till he had to stand on his chair, and struck
I) j his knuckles upon the ceiling—a thing manifestly impossible to Firman,
j ! who is a head shorter in stature than any of us. We mentioned the
I; | fact that Mr. Boyard had recently taken a photograph of Dr. Slade, on
j | which a spirit (that of a child) had appeared ; and that he intended to
I ! continue that experiment on his return to Brussels. J ohn King said that
j) I he would endeavour to appear in photography to him in Brussels ; and
|)j we at first understood that it was to be through the mediumship of
j)j Dr. Slade; but he presently told him that be did not wish to change
1(1 or mix mediumships, and that he (Mr. Boyard) should hold a seance
I (! with Williams, when the latter should shortly pass through Brussels,
j)| and photograph Williams, and that he would also try to appear on the
||j; plate. 11 And," he went on to say, “ if you want a test that it is the
| ( i same John King that is now here, tell me something here that I shall
\)! repeat to you there'' Something was accordingly concerted, and Mr.
! Boyard is to write as to the result, as well as to send us copies of the
j photograph obtained.
| * But to-day, September 2, we did see the two very well, the light being stronger, and the
j curtain being opened tor a longer time.
118
Sept. 7, 1877,
THfe SPlIlTtAtlST.
My lumbago pains having returned with some severity (owing to a
particular and local exposure the day before), after having all but
disappeared, Glaucus again mesmerised me as before, in the presence
of M. Boyard. It being in the dark, that gentleman could not see the
process, but he heard my exclamations, and, as he sat next to me (our
hands joined in chain), he could perceive the manner in which I was
raised from and pushed back into my chair some ten or a dozen times,
as has been before described. This made the fourth day of mesmerising
this time. The immediate relief was very great, and to-day but little
remains of the pain. I should not omit to say that Glaucus, on the
second or third day, directed me to have it also rubbed with opodeldoc.
How far the credit of the case is to be divided between the two appli¬
cations, your readers may indulge their own opinions. Anyhow, if the
mesmerising was the personal act of my kind invisible physician, the
opodeldoc was his prescription.
Another thing occurred yesterday, worth mentioning; it may lead to
another mould being given. About three years ago a friend of the
Count, Colonel X  (I will call him), had attended two or three
seances, at which the spirit of his deceased wife, a very lovely and much
beloved young person, had appeared in beautiful materialisation.
Colonel X-— being now again in Paris, and having called on the
Count, the latter asked John King whether Mrs X was among the
spirits now present. He answered that she was. When the seance was
over, and John King, as usual, wrote through the hand of Firman, the
following was written—“ Tell your friend that his good, sweet wife
Adrienne is here, and that I will do all I can to help her foncard. Tell
him that she loves him still, with a strong pure love, and also their dear, good
children. Tell him not to grieve for her, for she is very often with him,
trying to comfort him?’ Now the Count had never known her name. He
is quite positive on that point; as is also Firman that he had never heard
it, so that it does not seem to have" been picked out of their brains.
Colonel X also declares that he had never mentioned it. She was
English, and ilAdrienne’1'1 is certainly a very unusual English name.
After the Count had delivered that message last evening to Colonel
X , he to-day mentioned to John King that the name of Mrs. X——
he had given, “Adrienne,” was correct. “ I can only say that she gave
me that as her name” He then went on to describe her, correctly, as
blonde and light-haired, and very beautiful. It was settled that Colonel
X might come to the seance on Monday, day after to-morrow.
September 2nd.—We saw John King splendidly to-day by his light.
Any artist could have taken his portrait, as he stood there before us
all. The smallness and delicacy of his hands were remarkable. He
changed in stature, showing at one time a full head taller than at
another. He rather irreverently called me in joke, “that young rascal,
John,” and explained that I was young in comparison with his years.
The Countess had brought a small flagon, in the hope of its being filled
with the perfume we had the other day. He said he could not do it
to-day, but would another time. We smelled the perfume strongly.
In reference to the promised bust of “Marie,’’ he said that he found
he must bring her and show her several times before she could get up
strength and courage enough to dip, and he wished the Countess to be
there day after to-morrow, as the sight of her would help Marie very
much.
In my last letter I gave three reasons, each one sufficient, against
the theory of an ingenious critical friend in England (the Doctor knows
to whom I refer) that John King’s “ lamp ” may be a glass vessel con¬
taining phosphorus dissolved in oil. I should have added a fourth,
namely, that we have found it to vary considerably in weight, as well
as in size, as has been recorded in a former letter.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
2, Rue Solferino, Paris.
SPIRIT LIGHTS.
Sir,-—In No. 9 of Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan’s highly-interesting and in¬
structive letters on the “ Materialisation of Spirit Heads,” he tells us:
—“ The spirit Peter held against the palm of his hand, nearly vertical,
a small luminous cross, of about an inch in height, the shaft longer than
the cross piece, and surrounded by a luminous ring, of which the
diameter might have been about a couple of inches. The edges, both of
cross and of encircling ring, were well defined and sharp. There was
no shading off. The width, both of the parts of the cross and of the en¬
circling ring, I should say to have been from a sixth to a quarter of an
inch. How far this more minute description may correspond to what
Mr. Tomlinson saw [Spiritualist, July 27, page 43), I do not know, but
should like to know.”
It gives me pleasure to answer the above. When John King held up
a cross to me, he did not hold it, as Peter did, against the palm of his
hand. He held the cross with both hands. He put his hands together,
his two thumbs joined and held parallel to each other, with each finger
touching its fellow; and he held the cross on his two thumbs, supported
by the two forefingers, and thus placed the cross somewhat slanting to
my view, and thereby, at the same time, brightly illuminating his own
face and drapery. In my letter to The Spiritualist of July 27th, I say:
—“ The cross was not above an inch or two in length.” As in the case
of Peter’s cross, the shaft of John King’s cross was longer than the cross¬
piece. Like Peter’s cross, the edges were well defined and sharp, and
the width of the cross was from about a sixth to a quarter of an inch.
I saw no luminous ring surrounding John King’s cross; but there shot
forth from this small surface a brilliant halo, that flashed up to the spirit’s
face, lighting it as brightly as did the large luminous stone. Thus, if John
King had been speaking of his own cross, instead of Peter’s, I should have
understood perfectly what he meant when he said to Mr. O’Sullivan,
that “ the halo round the Cross was derived from its lightthough, like
Mr. O’Sullivan, I should have had some difficulty in understanding how,
in the case of Peter’s cross, “ the bright luminosity of the cross in the
centre should produce, or cause, the encircling of light called by John a
‘ halo/ that ring having about the same width and strength of light as
the cross itself.” It looks as if John King might not have been aware
of the ring that appeared round Peter’s cross, and supposed that that
cross shot forth sun-like rays like his own, instead of being, perhaps,
like a planet with a ring round it. Anyhow, here seems to have been
one [of those undesigned discrepancies, of no moment in itself, which
confirms evidence, rather than weakens it. John King, having no ring
round his own cross, could not, in that case, speak of a ring as a halo ;
but he certainly had to his cross a halo, without any ring perceived by
me; while Peter appears to have had a ring without a halo. What
typical, what passing strange and beautiful demonstrations they both
were!—not least in their diversity!
To me, one of the most extraordinary contingencies in the case is that
I should have lived to think with Mr. O’Sullivan, as by The Spiritualist
of August 31st, page 106, that it sounds reasonable—I may add, most
reasonable—to believe, not only that the spirits form their lamps anew
every time they visit us; that they form them at will, into such shapes
as they please; and that these lamps disperse and vanish when the
spirits go away; but, also, that their luminosity is derived from phos¬
phoric particles which the spirits, at any rate John King says, “ he gets
out of our heads” Certainly, to have shared with Mr. Williams, how¬
ever minutely, in contributing to the product of anything so brilliant as
that cross, from a head which has often been noted as a dull and
perverse one, is a comfort that is often needed, and, as such, is as satis¬
factory as unexpected. And, although we know these things to be true,
we cannot but express ourselves in the words of the poet—
Can such things be,
And overcome us, like a summer cloud,
Without our special wonder?
W. It. Tomlinson, M.A. (Cantab.)
}j ASTROLOGY, destiny, and prayer.
( Sir,—In connection with astrology and the letter of your corre-
ji spondent “Aldebaran,” I beg to thank him for his interesting com-
I municationj and should be glad if he would inform us of some trust-
(j worthy professor of the science. I have at various times sent certain
11 data, touching my own life, to several astrologists, but have found that
/1 their prophecies touching the future differed very considerably as to
I (i details, though in the main there was a singular correspondence. Now
| > i that Haphael and Zadkiel are dead, it would appear that there is some
j \ i difficulty in ascertaining who can safely be consulted. Judging from the
I (i predictions in the astrological almanacs the public are not likely to be
! > | encouraged to place much faith in these public professors of the science,
i j It is only a few weeks since an astrologist, signing himself “ Prosper©,”
(j predicted terrible disasters to the Russian troops about the 12th of
|) | August last, but we do not find that anything of importance happened
| | at that time. In the main astrology .may be true, but it seems to
| (| me the influences that produce deviations from supposed laws do not
| > I seem to be understood. Your correspondent himself admits that “ the
| /1 human will is superior to an apparent destiny, and can generally, if it
i (| perceives the danger, avoid it.” If this be so, then it seems to me your
| •){ correspondent admits that prayer (which is only a form of exertion of the
I (I will)'can modify the destiny which astrological science marks out for us
Hi —a fact which should afford immense consolation to a man with an
II “ evil destiny.” It would be interesting to know if our late professors
(| of the science, Zadkiel and Raphael, were able to foretell their own
(i deaths. “ Life Beyond the Grave.”
Sir,—Might I ask your correspondent “ Aldebaran,” if he believes
that a child born in the next room to that where the First Napoleon
was born at exactly the same minute, but of poor peasant parents, and
afterwards brought up among peasants would, simply owing to the
planetary constellation at the time of its birth, become the equal of the
First Napoleon in military talents. Yet this is what I infer Astrology
teaches, and why I consider it a waste [of time to study it, which other¬
wise I would do, and it becomes still more ridiculous if we bring
physiology to bear upon it.
I could probably anticipate your correspondent’s reply, but will leave
it to him. P.
September 4th, 1877.
>1 THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
11 Sir,—It will interest friends, in this district especially, to know that
| i the society above-named has once more got itself into working form. A
11 pleasant, comfortable room has been engaged at the Camden Temper-
11 ance Hotel, Camden-street, and last evening a genial audience gathered
|| together to listen to an address by our good friend, Mr. John Lament.
It would be hard to imagine a more agreeable meeting. Tailing in view
! the size of the room, which is not large, the feeling at present is not in
favour of having these Sunday evening services thrown open to the
public, but admission is granted to strangers, introduced by any
member of the society. In every respect affairs look healthy and
promising.
At the close of the service last night a committees meeting was held
for the election of a few new members, and Mr. George Wharmby was
unanimously appointed secretary, in room of myself, who resigned in
consequence of having to leave town for a time. Samuel Pride.
3rd September, 1877.
AID FOR MEDIUMS.
Sir,—I have noticed with regret that no effort is made to help those
mediums who are in circumstances which prohibit the rise and develop¬
ment of their powers, or who are so situated as to need a helping hand.
The continual desire of “ investigators ”to witness marvels soon reduces
the power of the strongest mediums, and the moment a medium fails to
get manifestations, that moment he is dropped, and left, asvwe say, to
Sept* 7, ISVY. THE SPIRITUALIST. 119
shift for himself. In the hour of success we have plenty of “ dear (
friends,” who are most solicitous in their attentions, possibly because j
they are so little required; but it is in the hour of failure, in the hour j
when, “ weary and heavy laden,” there is scarcely a resting-place, that j
we need to have some means of helping each other. To be a spiritual |
medium should be one of the highest of all callings; to be a messenger 11
between the two worlds should be to raise the man or woman so gifted |1
in the eyes of the good and true. Now, I desire to propose to the |
mediums of London that we each give one stance per week, the proceeds 11
to be used as a fund for the benefit of mediums who, through inability i1
to work or other causes, are thought worthy of such help; that the ! J
money thus obtained shall be placed in the hands of a committee, whose
duty it shall be to give help whenever required. As, in all probability,
I shall be in London for the present, I shall be pleased to correspond 1
with all mediums and Spiritualists interested in this suggestion. I I
know that something can be done, if we only make the effort. Spirit- j
ualists and mediums should show that they are in earnest by respecting
and protecting each other, and then the cause will receive the attention j
it so richly deserves. I trust that there will be many responses to my
note. J. Wm. Fletcher.
2, Yernon-plaoe, Bloomsbury-square, London.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE PROVINCES. \\\
Sir,—I have had a very successful tour in the provinces, and done in
much work. I have visited Belper, Derby, Nottingham (twice), New- | i
castle, Shields, Sunderland, Stockton, Chester - le - Street, Bishop j i
Auckland, Keighley, Ulverston, Barrow, Millom, Oldham, Manchester, j jj
Then again went for a week to Nottingham ; am now in Derby. I go j(j
to Belper on Wednesday, to Leicester on Friday for a week, and then to i i
Walsall and Birmingham ; returning to London, all being well, on the i j
20th iust. I have scarcely passed a night without holding a meeting of : j
some sort, and some days have had two. I have gained much expe- i j
rience in the time, and feel all the better for it. The movement seems I j j
to be in a chaotic and confused condition in some places, and indifference • j j
and apathy are displayed in many, but in some few energy is mani- ! 11
fested, and I hope that my visits have been useful in promoting the i I
same. ' I I
We contemplate holding a tea meeting on my return, at 15, St. j)j
Peter’s-road, Mile-end, London, on Sunday,September 23rd, tea on the |(!
table at 5 p.m. An open meeting will be held at seven o’clock, when
the chair will be taken by Mr. C. Hunt. Several mediums and speakers ! / j
are expected to attend. ,1(1
The Newcastle friends have written, asking me to visit them again, iji
but I tell them they must wait until I have been home and had a rest, j) i
Derby, September 3rd, 1877. E. W. Wallis. m
CLAIRVOYANCE. I (
Sir,—We think it our duty to make known the satisfactory tests ij
given to us lately through the clairvoyant powers of Miss Mancell, I (
during two or three sittings at our residence, as follows;—The spirits of j i
two of our brothers and of our brother-in-law were seen standing beside i J
us at different times; we recognised them, from the description given of j (
each, as correctly as if they had stood in mortal form before us. This 11
was an excellent proof of the great truth of spiritual clairvoyance, or as ; j
Paul says, “ the discerning of spirits!” 11
The next spirit, recognised by the description given, was that of a !
widow lady, formerly an intimate friend of ours, of whose decease we i
were ignorant, through having lost sight of her for nearly two years, !
until she thus appeared so unexpectedly. The description given of her |
was most truthful and striking, answering in every particular to the j
true features, colour of the eyes, hair, mourning garb, and widow’s cap. j
This being such a convincing test of identity, we immediately wrote to i
the lady’s lawyer at Liverpool, to know if she was still in the form, or j
in spirit life. An answer was received by the following post, stating j
that she died in the early part of last year. Such news was a further [
proof of the spiritual lady’s visit to us. |
But now comes a singular description given us of a friend. Some i
two months ago or more a young lady friend of ours suddenly departed this j
life; her spirit has been seen with us and described. The mother of i
the young lady was described as standing before us, in great trouble, i
attired in deep mourning, and imploring our assistance. She then pro- | (
duced a gilt-framed picture of a young lady, presenting it to us for our I {
acceptance. Now what enhances the value of this test is the fact of the j <
mother being still in the flesh, and the actual fulfilment of what was j <
shown; for the lady herself visited us some nights later, really in great jj
distress of mind owing to her dearest friend having taken to drink ji
through the death of her daughter. She asked our aid and counsel in i1
the matter, and she at the same time opened a parcel containing the ij
identical new gilt-framed photograph of her departed daughter, and pre- |
sented us the same, thus verifying to the letter the extraordinary vision
of the “ double,” or whatever it may be termed. The medium, Miss
Mancell, did not know of such people having existed until she clair-
voyantly saw them as described, she being a thorough stranger to us at
the time. J. & A. L. Regan,
146, Oambridge-street, Warwick-squaro, S.W., 1st Sept., 1877.
Miss Kislingbury’s Visit to the United States. — Miss Kisling-
bury, Secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists, who
left England a fortnight ago in the steam-ship Greece, has probably by
this time reached the United States, where it is to be hoped she will I
meet with a warm reception. Nobody is better acquainted than herself j
with the condition of the Spiritual movement in Great Britain, and she j
has taken an active leading part in establishing the most efficient j
organisation ever formed for the prosecution of those ends which
Spiritualists have in view, whereby the position of the movement in this
country has-been greatly strengthened and improved. 1
WAR*
BY JOHN PAGE HOPPS.
There is nothing more mysterious, more sorrowful, more
utterly disheartening than the continued existence of the war
spirit into our own times, in spite of the bitter experiences
of the past. It is this that often throws a doubt upon the
cherished hope that the race is progressing, and that the
barbarism of the past is being outgrown. As generation
after generation comes upon the stage, plays its part and
disappears, the hope is renewed that each one will surely
learn wisdom from its predecessors, and that, in time, war
will cure itself by the very miseries and violence of the
disease. “ Surely,” we say, u the children who have suffered,
who have wept, who have been left desolate, will hate the
accursed thing.” But the hope is delusive. The son who
saw his father’s house burned will risk, in time, the burning
of his own. u Surely,” we say again, u men will, with in¬
creasing knowledge, unlearn the hateful art of fighting and
take delight in the blessed arts of peace.” But again the
hope deceives us. Knowledge is used to invent deadlier
instruments of death ; science tells all she knows, to help men
to destroy one another; and all the products of modern
civilisation assist in the great insanity. a Surely,” we say,
once more, m as war becomes so horrible, so deadly, and so
ruinous, men will avoid it, as an evil too great to compensate
for any good that can come out of it.” But, once more the
hope is vain. Every war, bloodier, deadlier than the last,
only serves to glorify and make more falsely heroic the
amazing delusion and the gigantic crime.
It is a fact that in Europe, in times of peace, there are
nearly four millions of men under arms. What does that
mean for producers, workers, and taxpayers ? It is a fact
that this nation has now a debt of 800 millions—entirely in
consequence of war; the interest of that is 28 millions; to
this add 26 millions for current war expenses—54 millions
a year I The Crimean war they now say was a mistake ! It
cost us 340 millions,—-and we shall have to pay or have for
ever lost by it 13 millions a year! In that war 784,000 lives
were lost—equal to the utter extermination of seven
Leicesters.
Consider the absurdity of it. It settles nothing but the
question—which side has the heaviest battalions? which side
is most skilled in the art of wholesale murder? It is true
that in old times people believed in the superstition about
u The God of battles ” giving victory; but Providence
uniformly sides with the strongest men and most numerous
artillery. Hence nothing is settled but who has might on his
side. In every case a legacy of hate is laid up, for time and
opportunity to reopen the dread experiment. But it is
barbaric and brutal as well as absurd. To settle a question
by a fight is the brute’s method, who only knows that way ;
and yet what better are we when we seek to settle our dis¬
putes with a fight that is hell itself compared with the con¬
tests of tigers, wolves or dogs ? In that savage enterprise,
everything we know as human and Christian has to be flung
away, and, for the time being, vast multitudes of men are
turned into murderers. Yes!
One to destroy, is murder, by the law,
And gibbets keep the lifted hand in awe;
To murder thousands takes a specious name,
War’s glorious art;—and gives immortal fame.
What then is the cause of war ? I answer:—War is the
result of barbaric methods on the part of rulers and of ignor¬
ance on the part of the ruled. Amongst these barbaric
methods on the part of rulers, four things are prominent;—■
reliance upon the application of brute force, secret diplomacy,
irresponsible government, and the encouragement given to a
distinct military class.
Two principal causes of war are secret diplomacy and
irresponsible government. In days gone by, there was no
pretence of openness or publicity; and no form of appeal¬
ing to the people existed. The ruler, or the court, resolved
on war, and the serfs had to obey, to fight, to pay; and, to
a very large extent, it is still so on the Continent. Take the
great war between France and Germany. By this time,
there is probably not a sensible man left in Europe who be¬
lieves that the war was the result of any insult offered or
injury done to France: and there are as few sensible men
* Abridged from Z7te TruthseeUr (August),
120
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 7, 1877.
who bslieve that the Prussian government went into the
war with absolutely clean hands. What the antecedents of
Prussian and French diplomacy were, one or two secret
treaties (no longer locked up in cabinets) to some extent
betray. Step by step, jealousies arose, ambitions were ex¬
cited, insults were offered or suggested, and selfishness or
the instincts of self-preservation, were aroused: and, when
the crash came, all Europe was amazed, simply because the
stages that had led on to it had been hidden from its eyes.
In this way, two great nations were plunged into war really
without their knowledge or consent. It is true that when
the crash came the two nations themselves leapt to arms
with a will, and gave to Europe the impression that the war
was popular: but it is one thing to plot for war, and another
thing to accept it when it arrives : it is one thing to carry
out a policy which leads to it, and another thing to fancy
that it is necessary when it is at hand.
The truth is that one of the most amazing things about
war is the way in which the people themselves drift into it,
though the war is none of their making; the frightful ease
with which popular passions or national patriotism can be
used by rulers to carry out their own ends, to endorse their
private plans, and to fight their battles. In the case I have
taken as an illustration, Frenchmen and Germans did not
hate one another, but they were told their countries were
insulted or assailed, and they believed it. But the effect
was secured in the arousing of the brute instinct of revenge,
or self-assertion, or vanity. The diplomatists and rulers on
either side knew what strings to touch in order to call forth
the war-song they desired. And they succeeded ! The only
wonder is that secret diplomacy has not been long ago and
universally detected as a survival of barbaric methods, essen¬
tially belonging to a stage of national development long past,
at least by England. Formerly the chieftain made no pre¬
tence of consulting his serfs, but now we have most of the
disadvantages of being supposed to be consulted, with few of
the advantages of real knowledge. Our rulers first get be¬
hind a screen to conduct their affairs, and then taunt us, as
they lately did, with not understanding foreign politics. I
do but touch one of the gravest needs of the age when I say
that the. hour has come when the people must everywhere
take their national life more distinctly into their own keep¬
ing, or risk such perils as the world has never known. There
was a time, perhaps, when it was well that people should be
under national drill-sergeants and masters,—when it was
best for the nation that a strong will, or a keen intellect, or
even a firm hand should rule it: but that time has gone, I
think, for ever. There is no safety, I know, in a multi¬
tude, where the multitude is swayed by passion or is groping
in darkness : but there ought to be safety in a multitude, for
the multitude, against the selfishness of a class or the
tyranny of a dominant will.
What need is there for secret diplomacy ? None, where
plot and trick are unconcerned. None, where national aims
and duties alone are concerned. None, where men and
classes are not finessing for selfish or criminal ends. There
ought not to be a secret treaty in Europe, and there would
not be but for the incapacity of nations and the tyranny of
irresponsible rule. But we are drifting into troublous times,
and, if we would preserve the peace of Europe, diplomacy
must be resolved into a simplicity; while pretence, and trick,
and fraud must be deemed such, even though counts, and
dukes, and earls be the players, and though the destinies of
nations be the tremendous stakes for which they play. It
has long been one of the rough jokes of the world, that diplo¬
macy is only licensed lying, and that, to a diplomatist, the
only use of language is its utility in helping him to disguise
his thoughts. The jest bids fair to become a sober fact;
nay, it is a fact; and we shall never be secure till we alter
it. We look for the time when we shall enjoy all the fruits
of peace and be crowned with all her flowers; but that time
will never come till we are less at the mercy of a school
of diplomatists which has cost Europe more precious lives
than all the pests and famines it has ever known.
Sometimes, however (honestly and unselfishly enough),
diplomatists have entered into the evil courses I am con¬
demning, impelled by the supposed duty of maintaining
what is called u the balance of power.” Now this u balance
of power ” is one of the great superstitions of Europe, and
Ij | has done incalculable mischief, as a promoter of national
\ j hatreds and dynastic wars. ii The balance of power ” is
! j supposed to be disturbed whenever one nation moves at a
11 greater pace than another in a given direction; hence the
supposed need for interference, restraint, and war.
To perpetuate this gigantic Conservatism, then, what has
happened ?—to settle the question raised by this wretched
barbaric vanity, what has been done? Millions of men
have, for generations, been set to kill or disable one another.
And what does that mean, stripped of all its wicked glitter
and all its splendid lies ? It means murder, none the less
I hideous because it is licensed: it means widowed wives,
1.1 orphaned children, and desolated homes : it means the shed-
| ding of blood and the destruction of the fruits of the earth :
it means the burning of the poor man’s house and the bind-
| ing of cruel burdens, for generations, upon the shoulders of
the people. “ Its course is tracked by fire and slaughter,
by ruin and desolation, by the curse of the vanquished, and
the wail of the widowed, and the anguish of an untold be-
I reavement.” These words may suggest nothing very origi¬
nal or profound. Of course they do not. They only lift up
again the old wail over dead men, and heart-broken women,
| and orphaned children, and blasted homes. But, after all,
j it is this cry of anguish that beats down all the specious
I pleas of statecraft, and confounds all arguments, and tears
the mask from u glory,” and makes it look the ghastly thing
■ it is : for it is God and nature’s cry against this wickedness,
b and it will at last prevail. It cannot be a right thing that
thousands of men should face one another, armed with
deadly weapons in their hands, and perhaps with a deadly
hatred in their hearts ; and, while such a horror is possible
in Europe, we have no right to conclude that we are edu¬
cated, civilised, or truly free.
Of the last cause of war I need not speak at any length ;
for it is only too evident that it is ignorance on the part of
the ruled that alone makes possible the barbaric methods of
rulers. That reflection leads at once to the great remedy, which
I find in the true education of the people: for it will avail
nothing to escape from the rule of persons or classes if in
doing so we only fall into the rule of the mob. The last
state, indeed, of the nation might really be worse than the
first. The remedy then is not the destruction of the monarchy,
the pulling down of the aristocracy, or the establishment
of any particular suffrage: the remedy is the real uplifting
of the people,—their genuine education in the true condi-
j tions of national prosperity and human happiness,—their
I enlightenment as to what it is that really constitutes freedom,
j and on what their security and their enrichment depend.
Yes! surround it as we may with the false glitter of a fic-
| titious glory, war belongs to a low stage of civilisation. To-
I day it thrives on the passions of peoples, to-morrow on the
j pride of kings ; but, in any case, it is a kind of social and
j moral tide-mark that cannot lie. When the nations rise to
] higher levels, and live higher lives, they will look back on
i war and all its wicked splendours with shame, and pity, and
[j surprise. We may, indeed, deny that those higher levels
| will ever be attained, but we cannot deny the consequences
i of attaining them. We may doubt whether we shall ever
! climb to them, but we can try. Educate the people, elevate
the people, teach them to be just and benevolent, as well as
i to be thrifty and clever; above all, win the people to the
| world-redeeming doctrine of the Fatherhood of God and the
! Brotherhood of man;—work that into the heart and soul of
] this age, work that into the intellect and heart of the people,
! work that into the politics of Europe and the world, and
| you will then have done something to save mankind from its
I greatest misery, waste, and crime.
The Northumbrian Seer.—There are many in London who would
like to see something of the clairvoyant powers of the ‘‘ Northumbrian
I Seer,” Mr. Joseph Skipsey, of Ashington Colliery, near Morpeth, who,
according to published accounts, has sometimes by vision read off,
| with precision, incidents in the past lives of those in his presence. He
has been accustomed to the hard work of the coal-mines, and possesses
literary ability ; would it not be possible for some Spiritualist to offer
him employment which would induce him to come to London? He
has written lyrics of which the Newcastle newspapers have spoken
well, and which have had some good words from the Spectator, the
Literary World, and the Athenaum, Some of them have been trans¬
lated into French by the Chevalier de Chatelain, and published in his
Beauties of English Poetry,
Sept. 7, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Gd.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. Cd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.'
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
piete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 15s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturaiism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
idving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatoiogy; Miracles
and ;Scleuce: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatoiogy; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. Od.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Od.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens * these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt ns to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and littie understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vois. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the medinmshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. (id.; cheap edition,
7s. fld, .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of hi<?h standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Cd.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. Cd.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshln of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testunony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s . Cd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Cd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. Sd.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey SaviUe, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 8dl
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
Nature's Divine Revelations . . . . 15 o
The Physician. Vol. I. Gfc. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . , , .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , , . .76
The Thinker. V. „ . . , . ,76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . , . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . , . .76
Harmonlal Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .80
Penetralia; Containing Harmomal Answers . . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .00
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and N erves . • .70
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime , .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . , .20
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures • . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism ,
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . .
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen ,
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trim Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of .Mencius. Transiated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (aileged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert.R. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . , 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authok and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical."—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“• The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un •
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—NoufA Pales Daily
Sews
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russe
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Read, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC’’ an
invaluable preparation for tl e Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 8s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.O.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
Sept. 7, 1877,
The great question of the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PBINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature’s own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.’’—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &e., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than '
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerb y, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say too much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
SoU Agent for Paris—PH ARM ACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
. By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympatliies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV :—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, ana of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retroviaion
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions In
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised hy the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will hy the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Ciystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcralt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the SuWeet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—^Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhe Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER Xll:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments Witli and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic. !!•-•«
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sieep-^Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The trapped medium j or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.- post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof
aside from historical evidence, of immortality., It.shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowihg it
are to be found*in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let, arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intefiigent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ‘under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? " Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “ Who is the medium ? ’’ When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
w
L. CAUEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
F HUDSON, photographer, earnestly desires
• EMPLOYMENT that will keep him and his family
from want. Having no premises that can be used for photo¬
graphy, he is forced to look to other means of gaining a liveli¬
hood, and is willing to undertake any other sort of work suited
to his capacity. Address—25, Go vent-gardens, Notting-hill.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors' manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address C.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
FOR SALE, a few copies of Lang’s work on
Mesmerism, its History, Phenomena and Practice.
Edinburgh, 1813. Price 4s. 6d., post free. F. C. Lachlan, 22A,
K ing-street, St. James’s, S.W.
A LADY desiring occasional companionship,
offers residence, free of charge, to an agreeable Lady
Medium. M. A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
A LADY interested in the phenomena of
Spiritualism, would be happy to communicate with a
limited number of ladies and gentlemen, who would like to
join a private and select circle with professional and private
mediums. M. A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Half-a-
ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Alien’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed tor .the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn.
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St.' George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
