Registered as a Newspaper;
(SMtaf rxmmd^ biflj Spirxfwaltsm m <&xmt §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule*
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street,
LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY 19, 1878.
No. 308.—(Vol. xiil—No. 3.)
OTontentg.
Conditions under which Good Spiritual Manifestations are
Obtained    ■... ...  25
The “ Fire Test ” in America 25
The Inspiration of Thomas Lake Harris. By S. B. Brittan 26
The Powers and Possibilities of Man...   28
Spurious Psychical Phenomena in India    29
A Private Seance  80
An Apparition Seen before the Arrival of News of the
Death. By Hensleigh “Wedgwood, J.P   30
The Effect of Poison upon a Powerful Medium. By Thomas
R. Hazard ...  31
Zschokke on Immortality. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S. 31
Spiritualism and General Thought. By Kenneth R. H.
Mackenzie, IX° 32
Physical Manifestations among the Quakers 32
Poetry:—The Decarnated. By J. F. Hunt 33
Correspondence:—Sensitive Moments—Spirit Identity—
Spiritualism and Conjurers in Cape Town—Spiritualism
and the Drama—The Healing Power of Mesmerism—
The Lunacy Laws—Mr. Eglinton in Devonshire—Mr.
A. R. Wallace’s Merits Appreciated by the Dutch  33
Trance Phenomena ... ...    ...  36
Answers to Correspondents  ...  36
Paragraphs:—M. Bredif, 27; A Mystery Explained, 29: An
Alleged Visitant from Another World, 29 ; Evangelists,
29 ; The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism, 30; Difficulties of Interpretation, 30; Re¬
ception at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 80; Adequate
Testimony, 35 ; Soma Juice, 35 ; Ancient and Modem
Miracles, 35 ; Divorce Case, 36 Fiction Outlived by
Fact   ... 36
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, ana is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formeriy American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L, O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Risling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the Dnited States and Australia, I3s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines,. and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great RugseU-street London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed on
Saturday, July 27th, and re-opened on Monday, August 26th.
THE BEADING BOOM AND LIBEAEY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m. to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high-class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: Two Guineas a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Five shillings
a year includes membership, and an extra subscription of ten
shillings entitles one book from the lending library. Half-a-
Guinea a quarter entitles non-members to the use of the read¬
ing room and library, and also of the lending library.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughbobough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REYIEW.
No. II. Judy. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. C. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home—The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
THE ANGLO-SWISS MUSICAL BOX.
2s., post free 27 stamps. Eight tunes. The eight may
be selected from the following:—Home, Sweet Home, Hold
the Fort, The Last Rose of Summer, The Blue Danube Waltz,
Fair Shines the Moon, Pulling Hard against the Stream.
The Grange Novelty Company, Brackley-street, Sheffield.
Agents Wanted. 
SECRETARY and CORRESPONDENT.
A well-known and favourite Literary Contributor to
The Spiritualist would like a congenial appointment where
character, ability, and confidential trustworthiness are re¬
quired. Excellent press and shorthand experience. Address
“ Junius,” 36, Royal-road, London, S.E,
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, TV.i
President—Mr. Serjeant Cor.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
  Willesden, N.W.  
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
 Price 7s. 6d. Trpbner & Co., London. 
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
ANN ALT DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologioa di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, 23. No.
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.d. 1860 to 1873)
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s. 
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces,
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Lhdgate circus Buildings, London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, ‘‘HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, <fec., &a.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.CJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of' Exchange; Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal oj Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 19, 1878,
BKITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Colder, Esq., I, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs , 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-roact
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, 'W.
Honywood. Mrs.. 52, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C-, Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple^
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, StanhopeTempleman,M.D.,DouglasHouse, 13,Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park,
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, M rs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,;
Blnney, F A., 24, St Ann’s-square, Manchester
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Eomands, T. H , 7. Oherstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Cbampion-hill.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-street, Cheethani, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S w.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 88, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Barf., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.l.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Bernefs-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-etreet, W.C.
March, R. A., 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W , 71, Richmond-road, Dalston.
Morse, J J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stairton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbonld, Rev. w. w., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, NW.
Newton, W., U, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill. W. O., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Relrrers, Christian. 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Stra ’Hdge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
SW.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton,
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell. 30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M.. 62, Granvllle-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tree!wen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, SW.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H , M. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, SW.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonohitz, be! Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guidenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colone1 Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Viscondc de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial CounciUor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
H. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss AnnaBlackwell,LaTresorerie, Wimille,Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pcarychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Gcmany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, J210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.SA.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2.Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev Samuel Wateon, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Lulher Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rhe des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
jjmxelkes.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga CO., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de FAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hiU,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjea, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-nlace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasfo, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel. 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., S3, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad;Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. _•
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S| CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily frorp 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday eyenip'gs froia 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
1V1~R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
_LvJL TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
9 engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.   
J. COLYILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
9 is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by tha
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—■
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth, round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine."
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6(1 London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
WOBKS BY THE COUNTESS OF CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
<fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM upon the SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
  London:—Simpkin, Marshall <fc Co. 
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is, The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aidqd by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Olairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms ■
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Haltimore XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
"O ARE OLD BOOKS on ALCHEMY,
JLYi MAGIC, and ASTROLOGY, for sale.—Send stamped
envelope to Mr. Halse, 40, Addison-road, Kensington, London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, ll, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C..
J[ |p|ttj5|t ol yipigr^ d! an!) of jljtiijiiijaliom.
No. 308.—Volume Thirteen; Dumber Three.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 10th, 1878.
CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH GOOD SPIRITUAL | !
MANIFESTATIONS ARE OBTAINED. j |
Strong mediums obtain manifestations with a reasonable j j
amount of certainty, and their few failures or weak seances | |
might for the most part be prevented, by attention to the j n
necessary conditions. ■ j j j
Let us select, for example, that common kind of seance j j
in which strong physical manifestations take place while the | j
medium is held in the dark, and materialised spirit forms I j
are now and then dimly seen, illuminated by their own [ |
light. In the first place it is necessary to ascertain what j j
the medium has been doing during the earlier part of the j |
day. If he has given a previous stance of the same kind j j
during the day, and especially if that seance was a strong j !
one, the manifestations will be markedly weaker at the j j
second seance in the evening, and possibly may not be pro- j j
duced at all. Form materialisations draw much vitality |
from the whole body of the medium. Slate-writing mani- j
festations draw power chiefly from the bands, and are of j j
short duration, hence many sittings for these phenomena j j
may be given in one day; but it is quite otherwise with dark j
seances of two or three hours’ duration, in which the vital j
energy of the medium is drawn upon to its utmost extent. j
A hard day’s work in any ordinary occupation, or intense j
heat of the weather, making the medium feel that he has I
little life left in him, will weaken manifestations. If a j
medium uses up his vital energy in work, he is not in a fit |
state to give stances afterwards, hence the irrationality of jjj
those who argue that mediums should pursue ordinary occu- j |
pations during the day, and give gratuitous seances at night. I j
Supposing a medium not to have exhausted himself dur- j j
ing the day, the next condition to ensure a successful seance i I
is to make him perfectly happy and contented with his com- j j
pany. Therefore experienced Spiritualists usually invite him j j
to the house two or three hours before the seance begins, and j j
entertain him as much as possible. At the seance they do j j
not permit more than one or two disbelievers to be present j j
at one time, and those one or two are usually sincere and j j
thoughtful inquirers, not rough people, full of self-import- j j
ance, who modestly think the researches of the myriads of j j
intelligent men who have preceded them to be worthless, j j
and who unhesitatingly prejudge the phenomena to be im- i j
posture. Such people would be a disgrace to Spiritualism if j j
they became converts, and the doors of seance rooms should j j
be religiously locked against them. They should be told !
that they are not worthy to enter the movement, and this j
treatment will do them much more good than admitting !
them to a stance among respectable people, where they would j
make everybody uncomfortable, and in the end prove no jj
good to Spiritualism if converted. Parish doctors, parish j j
beadles, and simple physicists who desire to sit at seances
as authorities, and to persuade intelligent inquirers that j
they must not trust their own senses without permission,
should also be locked out. These would-be authorities are
usually arrant cowards, afraid to publicly testify to any test
phenomenon they may witness. They sometimes try to hide
their “ white feather ” by stating that they are only post- j j
poning their valuable testimony, meaning that they will wait j
a few years till Spiritualism is more popular. A man who j
cannot afford to tell the truth, is in a humiliating position
in life.
Having thus provided a medium full of vital energy, a
genial circle, and one or two sincere and rational inquirers,
strong manifestations are almost sure to take place, provided
that in the first instance a powerful medium of established
reputation was selected—that is to say, one rarely known to
have failures.
If a medium has a rational or irrational dislike to any¬
body in the circle, it commonly weakens manifestations ([
more than anything else, especially if the person so dis¬
liked is placed next to the sensitive. Hence the medium
should always be asked to arrange the order in which the
sitters shall take their places. After the manifestations are
at full power, the spirits should be told who among the
sitters are disbelievers, and asked to give them all the
evidence they can, which will usually be done.
Much is sometimes said against paid mediums. No per¬
son on the face of the earth has more legitimate right to
be paid for his time and loss of vital energy than a medium,
because in this materialistic age he presents evidence of the
existence of intelligent beings, freed from some of the limita¬
tions of earth-life. The persons who think it right to take the
time and energy of mediums without paying for the same, have
an equal right to help themselves to goods out of a jeweller’s
shop, and to walk away not only without paying for them, but
revelling in a sense of their superior morality, and assuming
a high tone towards the jeweller, who in his simplicity
fancies that he has a right to charge the value of his pro¬
perty. Those who cry out against paid mediums are usually
persons of vulgar wealth, who have retired from commercial
pursuits in which they had grasped everything they could
from everybody, and whose moral right to their own income
will not bear investigation. A man in good mental and
bodily health has no moral right to exist unless he gives the
world the full value of such benefits as he receives from it,
and a superior man will take care to be of more benefit to
the world than the world is to him. The recognition of
such principles as these has, for instance, caused Mr. Buskin
to set so good an example to his fellows. And, as regards
good mediums, most of them confer more benefits upon the
world than they receive from it in return, whereas some of
those who cry out against paid mediumship not only do not
hold the same high position, but do no good upon this
planet until they die and leave it, and even this solitary
boon given by them to mankind is not conferred voluntarily.
On the other hand, the payment of mediums throws upon
them additional responsibilities. For instance, it makes it
incumbent upon them to so arrange their daily duties as to
attend each stance full of strength and vitality, not tired out
by a previous sitting, rendering a second series of good
manifestations impossible.
THE “FIRE TEST" IN AMERICA.
From The New York Herald of September 7,1871, we
extract the following account of the exploits of a negro
blacksmith, written by a correspondent who witnessed what
he describes:—
il Business recently called me to the Eastern shore of
Maryland, to the point from which I write; the county seat
of Talbot County. While there I heard from several gentle¬
men of prominence the story of a negro blacksmith, who
lived in an adjoining county, upon whom fire had no effect
whatever. The story was so incredible that I gave it little
heed, although it came from most reliable sources, and was
related to me by gentlemen of the highest standing in the
community for honour and integrity. A day or two after I
first heard of this remarkable negro, Mr. T. B. Bobson,
editor of the Easton Star, called at my room, and stated
that the negro was in town, and that the physicians were
going to make an examination of him at the office of Dr. P.
Stack, and invited me to witness the operations, which I
very gladly did. Mr. Bobson and myself went at once to
Dr. Stack’s office, where were assembled Drs. Anderson,
Goldsborough, and Comegys, of Easton, Mr. J. A. Johnson,
editor of the Journal at Easton, Mr. A. A. Pancoutt, and
Mr. John C. Henry, all prominent citizens of Talbot
County.
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 19, 1878.
u A brisk fire of anthracite coal was burning in a common
coal stove, and an iron shovel was placed in the stove, and
heated to a white heat. When all was ready, the negro
pulled off his boots, and placed the hot shovel upon the
soles of his feet, and kept it there until the shovel became
black. His feet were then examined by the physicians, but
no burns could be found, and all declared that no evidences
of a heated substance having come in contact with them was
visible.
The shovel was again heated red hot, taken from the
stove and handed to him. He ran out his tongue as far as
he could, and laid the heated shovel upon it, licking the
iron until it became cool. The physicians examined the
tongue, but found nothing to indicate that he had suffered
in the least from the heated iron. A large handful of common
squirrel shot, procured from a store near Dr. Stack’s office,
was next placed in an iron receptacle, and heated until
melted. The negro then took the dish, poured the heated
lead into the palm of his hand, and then put it into his
mouth, allowing it to run all around his teeth and gums.
He repeated the operation several times, each time keeping
the melted lead in his mouth until solidified. After each
operation the physicians examined him carefully, but could
find nothing upon his flesh to indicate that he had been in
the least affected by the heated substance he had been
handling.
“ After the performances with the lead, he deliberately
put his hand into the stove, in which was a very hot fire,
took therefrom a handful of hot coals, and passed them
about the room to the gentlemen present, keeping them in
his hand some time. Not the slightest evidence of a burn
was visible upon his hand after he threw the coals back into
the stove.
“ The exhibition was regarded by all who witnessed it as
most remarkable, for there was no opportunity for the practice
of chicanery. Every gentleman present was there for the
purpose of detecting if possible any trick—if trick there
were—and none could have had the least interest in aiding or
abetting the negro in his performances. ... I will state
that in April last, while the judges of this judicial circuit
were holding court at Denton, Caroline County—the county
in which this man lives—Judges Wickes and Stump, ac¬
companied by Sheriff Richardson, went to the blacksmith
shop of this negro, which is situated about six miles from
Denton, on the farm of W. P. Richardson. The sheriff
made known to him the object of their visit, when, in the
language of the judges, he performed most astonishing
feats, such as handling red-hot iron with his bare hands,
forging it into shape without the use of tongs, putting it
upon his tongue, &c. At a later period he was visited at
his shop by Dr. C. E. Tarr, editor of the Denton Journal,
J. Marion Emerson, editor of the Denton American Union,
James B. Steele, T. H. Kemp, clerk of the court, R. J.
Jump, late State Comptroller of the Treasury, Colonel R.
E. Caster, and Dr. P. 0. Cherbonier. These gentlemen
came upon him wholly unawares, and when requested by
them to perform some of the feats he has become so famous
for in this locality, he immediately went through with the
same wonderful performances I have mentioned. . . .-
“ After he had concluded his performances in Dr. Stack’s
office, I sought an opportunity to converse with him. I
ound him very ignorant, not able to read or write, and in all
respects an unadulterated negro. His name is Nathan
Coker, and he is about fifty-eight years of age. He was
born in the town of Hillsborough, Caroline County, Md.,
and was the slave of Henry L. Sellers of that place, by
whom he was sold to Bishop Emary. In relation to his
ability to handle fire, and how he first became aware of it,
he said: 1 Boss, when I was about thirteen years old, old
massa Emary hired me out to a lawyer, whose name was
Purnell. He treated me badly, and did not give me enough
to eat. I shied around the kitchen one day, and when the
cook left I shot in, dipped my hand into the dinner pot, and
pulled out a red-hot dumpling. The boiling water did not
burn, and I could eat the hot dumpling without winking, so
after that I often got my dinner that way. I has often got
the hot fat off the boiling water and drank it.’ I then
interrogated him as to the effect heated substances had upon
his flesh, and asked him when he handled them with his
ij hands if he did not suffer more than when he took them
I inwardly, to which he replied.: t No, boss, I often take my
I iron out the forge with my hand when red-hot, but it don’t
! burn. Since I have been a little boy I have never been
| afraid to handle fire.’ He then stated that often when by
I himself he would pick up red-hot iron because his tongs
j were not handy, and that he never felt any discomfort from
| it. He felt no more harm, he said, from handling fire than
| stones.”
THE INSPIRATION OF THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.*
BY S. B. BBITTAN.
It would be vain to search the annals of literature for a
j more striking example of poetic inspiration than is presented
| in the case of Thomas L. Harris, whose recent, rapid, and
] brilliant improvisations have astonished many of the most
| intelligent witnesses, and established for himself a secure
| foundation for a wide and lasting reputation. From his
! youth Mr. Harris has been accustomed to write verse, and
j many of his earlier lyrics, already widely circulated through
| the religious and secular press, have been universally admired.
| They are usually characterised by bold thoughts and brilliant
! images, and are especially remarkable for their spiritual
significance and beauty. His early poems were never
mechanically composed—were rarely, if ever, the result of
previous thought; they were unstudied, spontaneous, and
seemingly almost as involuntary as respiration. By degrees
the exercise of a spiritual agency, alike foreign to himself
and the sphere of mundane existence, became more and
more apparent, until spirits stood unvailed before him, and
either moved his hand while he was partially entranced,
addressed him in an audible way, or communicated their
thoughts through cerebral impressions. The phenomena in
the case of Mr. Harris have been constantly increasing in
interest and importance. His normal life has been mysteri¬
ously diversified by many startling episodes, which, for their
singular novelty—for the evidence they afford of the truth
of spiritual existence and intercourse, as well as for dramatic
impressiveness and the sublime ideas they contain—are
worthy to be recorded among the most thrilling and instruc¬
tive incidents of human experience. For the last five years
his daily councillors and nightly guardians have been spirits
who have “ put on immortality.” At all times and in all
places they visit him and converse freely as friend with
friend. His familiar guests are shades of the immortal
bards, who from his lips pour the fiery torrent of Heaven-
inspired thoughts.
The poems of Mr. Harris were not only everywhere ad¬
mired by the lovers of metrical harmony, but they were
highly complimented by the press, until their spiritual origin
was made known. Of late, however, the secular journals
have rarely copied them ; much less have they been disposed
to acknowledge their peculiar claims. In this respect the
excessive caution of some men is not more apparent than
their want of correct taste and manly independence. They
listen with delight to a mortal, and stop their ears when an
angel sings ! But when the real authorship of some Spirit-
utterance through Mr. Harris is lost sight of by the critics,
they are extremely liable to indulge their admiration—
obviously, at their own expense and for our amusement.
Indeed, they sometimes unwittingly sanction all that is
claimed by making the implied admission that his inspiration
is derived from the spirit world. The justice of this observa¬
tion is illustrated by the example of the Cincinnati Weekly
Times. Soon after the Lyric of the Morning Land was
published, Mr. S. Leavitt reviewed the poem, making copious
extracts. Subsequently through the carelessness of the press,
the reviewer became the reputed author, and the legitimate
claims of the Lyric to a spiritual origin were lost sight of by
those who never had any disposition to perceive them. Some
of those extracts have since that time been travelling the
circuit of the secular press, prefaced by complimentary
remarks from literary gentlemen who are opposed to
Spiritualism. How ignorance brings out and displays these
intrinsic charms. The journal just referred to, some time
since, copied into its columns the subjoined verse, from a
Fairy’s Song of the Violets :—
♦ Extracted from the Introduction to T. L, Harris’s Lyric of the Golden Age.
July 19, 1878.
THE SPIETTU A LIST.
27
There came a fairy blue, and sang:
O, maiden dear, attend, attend!
When first on earth the violets sprang,
Each earthly maid had fairy friend,
Who whispered in her ear by night~
Sing, heart, my heart the mellow lay—
And so the violet grew more bright
Within her eyes from day to day.
Wake, fairies, wake from field and glen,
Wake, fairies, on your azure steep,
For ye shall throng to earth again,
And sing to maidens in their sleep.
Lyric of the Morning Land, page 155.
Appended to these verses, as they appeared in the Times,
was the following editorial comment:—
From the reading of Mr. Leavitt’s Lyric of the Morning Land, the
mind reverts so much to Queen Mab, that one cannot help thinking
that the poetic mantle of the renowned Shelley hath truly fallen upon
Mr. Leavitt’s shoulders.
When we have asserted the fact that Mr. Harris, in some !
of his brilliant effusions, was really inspired by the immortal j
Shelley, secular journalists have been incredulous and j
captious, if they did not treat the statement with undis- j
guised contempt. Yet our opinion is here virtually endorsed I
by an opposer. When the real claims of the lyric to a j
genuine spiritual origin are unknown or forgotten, the critics I
are straightway reminded of 11 Queen Mob” and a cannot help I
thinking that the poetic mantle of the renowned Shelley hath j
truly fallen on the author's shoulders."
Several journalists have been constrained by the irresistible j
force of internal evidence to associate other peoms, uttered j
through Mr. Harris, with the names and genius of Shelley
and other departed poets. The following is extracted from
a review of the Epic of the Starry Heaven, which appeared
in the Philadelphia Daily Register
We are strongly reminded of Shelley, in reading many passages in i1
this poem ; and if any spirit that was once encased in visible clay was ?•]
the dictator of it, we should unhesitatingly pronounce it to be that of h
Percy Bysshe Shelley. It is every way extraordinary. It is remark- 11
able as a poem, unattended by any real or imagined abnormal circum- I \
stances of the author. Its merits, aside from any curiosity on the i j
subject, will cause it to be widely read. The extraordinary rapidity of i1
its composition makes it unequalled by any other literary production J
in the world.
A number of similar illustrations might be cited in this
connection, but our limited space will only permit us to i
introduce one additional example. On Thursday, November
30, 1854, while Mr. Harris was seated in the office of the
Spiritual Telegraph, the writer and Mr. Lewis L. Peet being j
present, it was observed that the physical and mental condi- j
tion of Harris were strongly influenced by some foreign agent,
which seemed to abstract his mind from the sphere of his
outward relations. At length he was profoundly entranced,
and, while under the influence of invisible intelligences,
improvised two poems, making in all one hundred and fifty
lines. The second poem, a bold and graceful utterance, con¬
taining sixty-two lines, and purporting to be a relation of j
the experience of Edgar A. Poe, in his transition to the |
spirit-world, was spoken in fifteen minutes. Below we give j
some fragments to further illustrate Mr. Harris’ astonishing !
powers of improvisation while under spiritual influence, at j
the same time they most forcibly vindicate his claims to |
direct intercourse with spirits of the invisible world. The j
abrupt and frightful termination of mortal life, the birth of j
the spirit surrounded by unearthly terrors, and the opening j
of the inner senses amid the glories of Paradise, are thus j
graphically and beautifully described in the first part of the j
poem:—
A lurid mantle wrapped my Spirit-form,
Cradled in lightnings and in whirlwinds born,
Torn from the body, terribly downcast,
Plunged headlong through red furnaces in blast j
Those seething torrents maddened me : I fell,
But woke in Paradise instead of Hell; I!
Like song-waves circling in a golden bell,
Like fragrant odours in a woodbine dell, I,
Like glowing pistils in a rose unblown, I j
Like all sweet dreams to Saints in slumber shown,
Like Heaven itself, like joy incarnate given ; j
And as a ship through wintry whirlwinds driven, j
Finds land-locked port in Araby the blest,
So I, through terror, entered into rest. j
A lovely maiden, whose angelic beauty is revealed in the j
transcendent light that emanates “ from her full bosom,” ”
comes to the poet, who is filled with rapture while she
sings ;—
“ I have waited, I have waited,
As the Evening Star belated,
"When it lingers pale and lonely by the purple sunset door.
I have found thee, I have found thee,
And with heart-spells fast have bound thee.”
So from out the glowing halo sang the Angel-Maid Lenore.
The poet then rehearses the dark scenes of his earth-life—
the poverty, despair, desolation, and madness—
All Earth’s undivided sorrow,
which broke his young heart and vailed his spirit in the
gloom of a tempestuous night. The feeling of utter despera¬
tion which possessed his soul and burned in his brain like an
unquenchable fire, and the blissful repose of the liberated
spirit in the home of the angels, are vividly contrasted in the
closing stanzas :—
And I fled Life’s outer portal,
Deeming anguish was immortal,
Crying, “ Launch thy heavy thunders, tell me never to adore,
Hate for hate and curse for curses,
Through abyssmal universes,
Plunge me down as lost Archangels fell despairingly of yore.”
So the whirlwind bore my spirit,
But to lands that Saints inherit,
And it seems my heart forever like a ruby cup runs o’er.
I am blest beyond all blessing,
And an Angel’s pure caressing,
Flows around my soul forever like a stream around its shore.
While Mr. Harris was speaking the poem from which
these extracts are taken, his whole manner was highly
dramatic; at the same time his countenance and intonations
were expressive of all the tender and terrible emotions which
the poem so impressively indicates. The internal evidence
that it was inspired by the author of the “ Haven ” is so
strong that no unprejudiced mind, at all familiar with the
circumstances of its production, will be likely to dispute its
claims. Even the critical editor of the Springfield (Mass.)
Republican—who has heretofore manifested an inveterate
hostility to Spiritualism—was impelled to write and publish
the following, in a commendatory notice of this poem
“ It has all the ifine frenzy ’ of that wild son of genius, and
some of the stanzas are quite equal, in our view, to his best
efforts."
Great Poems and living Evangels are earthly echoes of
the Infinite Harmonies. Few in any age are able to appre¬
hend their meaning. That the epic and lyric are not every¬
where appreciated will occasion no surprise with those who
have measured the distance between the earthly plane of the
common mind and the heaven of imagination to which the
inspiring spirits lead the powers of thought. In the ranks
of the dilettanti the philosophy of these poems is doubtless
a sealed book. Nor do we look for a just estimate of their
peculiar merits to those critics who flit above the flowery
lawns of poesy, and flash in the gray twilight, like fire-flies
over the garden walls of popular literature. No, never. Men
whose ideas are begotten and born in drawing-rooms, seldom
recognise the great thoughts that silently move the world.
When the vibration of a harp-string, under the gentle
pressure of some fair hand, fully realises the highest concep¬
tion of Divine harmony, there will be few to follow the bold,
free spirit that goes out to unbar the portals of other worlds.
But the revealing Angel must open the everlasting doors,
that men may listen if they will to the sublime sphere-music,
and feel the stately measure to which constellations march
through Heaven.
Spiritualists visiting Paris for the Exhibition will find commodious
reception and reading rooms at the new offices of the Revue Spirite at 5,
Rue Neuve des petits Champs, Palais Royal. Mme. Ley marie will also
furnish information to Spiritualists as to lodgings in Paris.
M. Xavier Mouls, formerly chanoine of Bordeaux, well known as a
writer and healer amongst French Spiritualists, passed tothehigher life on
the 5th inst. Three discourses were pronounced over his grave, in the
midst of a large concourse of co-believers assembled from all parts of
the country.
M. Bredif.—M. Bredif, the French physical medium, who once gave
seances at St. Petersburg and Moscow, and more recently in Rio
Janeiro, Buenos Ayres, and Monte Video, is now in Sn. Paul, in tne
Brazils. By his seances he has converted many people to Spiritualism
in South America, but he found most of the Spaniards to be very ignorant
about the subject, imposing tests of such severity as often to amount to
hard treatment to himself.
28
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 19, 1878.
THE POWERS AND POSSIBILITIES OF MAN.
The following are extracts from a sermon by the Rev. W. H. H.
Murray, published in The Christian Age
You cannot get any assistance in understanding the greatness of man
by a study of the history of the race. You may begin with the earliest
annals, and you may read every record that man has left of himself in
stone, or iron, or letters—in deeds done or thoughts uttered—and when
you have mastered all history and all knowledge, when you are familiar
with every event and transaction of your kind in the world, you still
have no knowledge by which to measure man’s greatness. And the
reason is because the race, as a whole, has never had a fair chance—as
a whole, it has never been educated, never had its faculties and its
powers led out and led up to the extent of the possible. The trellis has
been too low and too narrow to allow the full vinal expression of the
root that God planted in the birth of man at the foot of it. Yea, the
soil has been too thin and meagre to nourish the root, and the climate,
in addition, has been unpropitious.
The rule has been to educate the few, and not the many, and that
means that the few have been only partially educated, for only when
the many are educated can the few be educated. For man feeds man.
Mind operates on mind. Intellect depends on intellect. Heart draws
from heart. Soul derives from soul. And only when the streams which
supply the pool are adequate, will the pool be filled. Where one voice
has been trained, a thousand natural singers have remained dumb.
Where one poet has been educated, a hundred poetical natures have
carried their unwritten poems with them to their graves. Where one
orator by opportunity and careful education has been advertised to the
public, a thousand other men with wit as keen, reason as fine, humour
as mirthful—with hearts aflame and tongues of fire—have carried their
eloquence with them unuttered and unknown to themselves even, into
eternity. And so, wherever you look, you will find that the history of
the race furnishes no measurement for the capacities of the race. The
possibilities of the world are not demonstrated by its deeds.
Moreover, wherein the world has had education, wherein man has
had his talents elicited to action, it has been, for the most part, in the
direction of evil, for men have been educated to kill, and not to save.
They have been educated to oppress, not to emancipate their fellow-men.
They have been schooled in the art of keeping man down, and not of
lifting man up. Their studentship has been to block the progress of the
race, not to hasten it forward. They have been skilful in cruelty, wise
in injustice, talented in mischief, skilled in corruption, learned in
debauchery.
My position is—that in the race of men, and in every individual man,
are powers, capacities, energies, and graces as wholly unknown as if
they did not exist. Man’s capacity represents an undiscovered land,
an unvisited country, alongwhose shores the discoverer’s sail has passed,
but whose vast interior extent and resources no one has explored.
Angelhood is in man somewhere, is in you, friend, somewhere; but you
have not found it out. The image of God is in you somewhere, erect,
beautiful; but over it, and burying it from sight, are rags of defilement
and the debris of an ancient moral overthrow.
“Shall I ever grow up into this angelhood?” you ask. “Shall I
ever exhume the God that now lies buried in my flesh ?” I hope so, I
respond; I think so—that is, if you wish to, if your desire be a strong
desire—strong enough to set you at work and keep you at work. But
this, it were well that all men should understand; that wishing cannot
save them, and praying cannot save them. Fordoing, and not wishing,
is what builds man up. Salvation means the development of capacity
in holy directions. And no one comes to this by wishing that he may
come to it, and no one can put his nature into the very act and process
of noble evolution by praying merely.
Plain, homely, matter-of-fact unecstatic obedience to God, and the
laws that represent God, is what gives happiness to the soul. Ecstacies
that come from any other source are in the form of spiritual hysteria ;
they are not legitimate offspring of the soul’s connection with God.
They do not belong to the family circle of heavenly joys. They can be
produced at any time, and on any occasion, by a combination of earthly
forces. Singing can produce them. A sympathetic force can charge
the thrill along every nerve until it tingles. Eloquence can produce
them. The power and earnestness of oratory can make men weep, and
groan, or shout in loud acclaim. The mesmeric influence which hovers
over a vast audience, as electric lights hover over certain marsh lands
during the summer heat, can communicate by subtle and untraceable
potency its deceptive and transitory excitement—so that the vast multi¬
tude shall be charged full of a current whose expression might deceive
the very elect; and many suppose that this kind of feeling is legitimate,
spiritual, and represents the real power of God.
The only happy feeling that is legitimate to Christianity is that
which comes from doing the will of God. There must be a stalk for
every flower, and there must be a good deed for every true Christian
emotion. The happiness of Jesus and of the infinity of His soul—
happiness none of us can conceive, because our souls are not as obedient
as His soul was—the soul happiness of Jesus, I say, was the result of
His obedience, His strict, absolute, perfect obedience to the law of God.
He loved God perfectly, and He loved man perfectly, and so perfectly
fulfilled the law, and so had perfect happiness. Even as the Scripture
says : “As the Father has life in Himself, so hath He given to the Son
to have life in Himself.” The perfect life in Him stood parent to the
perfect joy.
Do not deceive yourselves, friends. Seek happiness by doing, and
you will have it. Along that path—a path by no means smooth or level,
and which often leads through jungles and dreadful passes of experience
—you can come to the gate called “ Beautiful.” When your eyes see it
—see the gleam and glory of it—when you actually come and stand in
front of it, your soul will be filled with a delight which will level all
walls of restriction, and cause heaven to enlarge itself until it includes
you. John, because his mind and the mind of his age could conceive of
nothing more splendid than costly metal and material gems, pictured
heaven as a metallic city, more glorious than the great kings of the East
ever builded. But we, educated to a truer conception of values, with souls
uplifted to a height of spiritual discernment which apprehends the
beauty of spirit as above the beauty of matter, look down with indiffer¬
ence or contempt upon gold, and rubies, carbuncles, and earthly gems,
and realise that heaven is above such symbolisation. The happiness of
its life is such as jewels cannot express; and the glory of the Universal
Spirit the glory of an indescribably perfect being.
If you will study the life of Jesus, you will find the moral possibilities
of your nature. The Spiritualism of His life—the reverence, patience,
purity, and righteousness of it—you can repeat. The same mind that
was in Him can be in you. Like Him you can go about doing good.
Like Him you can glorify the Father; and from such a study of the
man you will have come to a self-knowledge of a sort you have never
dreamed of.
You will find you are able to do things that you did not dream
you could do, and bear things that you did not think you could bear ;
and when you bear and do the things you thought impossible, through
imitation of Christ, and by an inspiration which has come to you out
of Christ, you will have come to that state which is known as living
in Christ. And whatever man stands in this state of self-knowledge
has come to a condition of spiritual discernment which will exalt
him in his own eyes with a noble exaltation, and he will feel the
dignity of his sonship to God. He will know what the Apostle means
when he speaks of man as being heir and joint-heir with Christ in
heavenly glory.
Now, in the text, Paul plainly teaches that the state in which we
now are is a state of suffering, and it may be because in part of it we
are to grow—we are to climb—we are to mount until we come to a state
of glory. He was a wise man, and he noted that man was in a state of
evolution. He saw that, taken as a whole, the race was slowly but
surely getting exaltation. Different civilisations, and the succession of
centuries with all that they brought of progress, were only the steps,
dull or polished, up which the race was climbing. He noted that they
were bowed down with burdens, and the majority of them heavily
fettered. The backs of many were bleeding; the bodies of many starv¬
ing ; the souls of all hungry; the eyes of all blinded. But, neverthe¬
less, in spite of all impediments, in spite of all sufferings, the race kept
growing up.
Now, there may be among us here to-day men and women who
have suffered—who are suffering. They have lost friends; they have
lost property; they have lost love—I don’t mean that the loved ones
have died : the dying of loved ones never loses us love ; it confirms it
with an eternal confirmation, lifting it above jealousies and doubts, and
placing it in the order of infinite certainties; but they have lost love in
the sense that they have met no one worthy of loving; no one able to
sound the depths of their natures and stir them with Divine agitations,
as the angels, in the old story, who went down into the fountain of
healing. Or they have lost it through discovering that the object they
have loved is unworthy, and their love has come back to them drooping
and disconsolate, like a bird whose mate has been shot. There may be
people, I say, among us to-day who have suffered in such a dread
fashion that they know not what to do ; they know not which way to
turn. They are like a householder whose house has been shaken down
by an earthquake and lies in ruins, and his wife and his babes he knows
are under the ruins. Where shall he turn ? What shall he do ?
What is life henceforth to him ?
Well, if there be such I would say to them—although I know the
greatness of the hope will seem incredible—friends, even your suffering,
vast as it is, measureless as it is, is not worthy to be compared with the
glory that shall be revealed in you in the hereafter. And the hereafter
of which I speak is not a hereafter that begins twenty or thirty years
from to-day, but a hereafter which begins now, at this moment, while
you sit with us in holy waiting on God. Your powers are such, your
capacities and energies are such, the inherent buoyancy of your undying
structure is such, and God your maker and your guardian is such, that
you shall recover from your present lapse; you shall grow up, starting
from the very root and out of the very soil of opportunity into a new
trunk of power; into new branchings of strength ; into verdure that is
fadeless; into a bloom and a fruitage that shall sink your old expres¬
sion into insignificance.
We are living in the dawn now. The sunrise will break in illumina¬
tion round us, and we shall see the full orb or splendour only when we
go into the grave. Out of sorrow and its wrestlings come strength to
the soul. Out of tears comes cleansing to the eyes, and the power of
Divine vision is born to the spirit. Out of what we have missed comes
a preparation—a sublime preparation which fits us to appreciate and
more keenly relish what the Lord will give us in the exercises of the
beyond.
Most of our sufferings come to us through the body; we shall get rid
of these when we get rid of our present bodies. That will be a great
gain. The old sin which made us sick, and made our bodily life a pro¬
cess of slow corruption, will not keep its grip on us for ever. On the
spirit-body it cannot lay its hand. In this, at least, we can already see
what Paul meant when he said, “ To die is gain.” The grave, at least,
will cool all fevers and chill the tormenting inflammations in our blood.
The pains that find their causes in the body we shall escape after a
time, while the pains which have their causes in the mind and the spirit
will alone remain as a source of torment. From these mental pains
death will not relieve us. From these we must find deliverance by a
renewing of the mind, by a regeneration of the spirit.
We must grow up out of these by developing the godlike in us, by
the leading out and up of all our powers in Divine directions. Along
the line of moral and spiritual possibilities we must progress, if we are
to come to the threshold of heaven. We shall find joy for grief and
July 19, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
glory for shame if we develop those capacities withia us, which, being j j
developed, lift us above shame into glory, and bring us into the state of j i
joy everlasting. |(|
“Never utter these words: ‘I do not know this; therefore it is | |
false.’ One must study to know, know to understand, understand to I |
judge.”—Narada (HindA Philosopher). j j
A Mystery Explained.—The following letter from the New York | j
Sun has been sent us from America for republication:—“ Sir,—I shall iji
feel indebted to you for a solution of the following very remarkable jjj
incident: My daughter and myself were sitting in a room adjoining one !)!
in which was a table. On it stood a stout, thick-bottomed glass, nearly i(j,
full of salt water, which I had been accustomed to sip occasionally. ! j I
Suddenly we heard a noise in that room, and in a little while I went in. | |
To my amazement I saw that glass split apart from top to bottom and j j
lying in two pieces on the table, the water running, which we had also ijj
heard. I think it would puzzle anybody to break that glass in such a j j I;
way. We had but one little child left us, which we loved and cherished j j
as our own 'souls, and this incident of the broken glass was its death- jjj
summons. In eight or ten days it departed. There are other j j
astonishing incidents in the past ten years I could relate, but the incre- j j
dulity of the world has kept them back.—Spectre.” Badly annealed j j j
glass, in which the tension inside differs from that outside, so that the j j
whole substance is in a constant state of strain, frequently breaks unex- I |
pectedly in the manner described. Advantage is taken of this fact in jjj
the manufacture of “Prince Rupert’s Drops,’’ which break with almost jlj
explosive violence. We know of a case in which a gentleman was !
arguing with disbelievers on the reality of the supernatural, when the I |
whole company, was awestruck by an untouched glass tumbler j j
shivering itself to pieces—because it was badly annealed. jjj
An Alleged Visitant from Another World.—A copy of the j
South Pacific Times of April 28th, 1878, published at 77, Calle de la jj
Constitucion, Callao, Peru, and edited by Mr. Isaac Lawson, has been i
sent us. It is a journal which is issued three times a week, and j
contains solid reading about the mining and other branches of commerce
of the Pacific coast of South America. It quotes a “ tough ” story from
“ The Capital, an Argentine paper,” which contains a letter, dated from
Carcarana Este, October 12th, 1877, signed ‘ ‘A. Serarg, chemist.” He
says that three miles from Carcarana Este he found a large black rock,
of somewhat oval shape, size about thirty by forty-five yards, which he /
had no doubt after examination was an aerolite of unprecedented size.
He, with Mr. Charles Davis, a geologist, and a Mr. Paxton (not Paxton
Hood), afterwards bored into the stone, passed through several layers
of mineral substances, the chemical composition of which he gives with j j
praiseworthy scientific accuracy, when they came upon a cavern, in j j
which they found an amphora of white metal, silver and zinc, clumsily j)
worked, also a large plate, which when raised disclosed another cavern, jj
He adds—“We descended into this new cavern, and what was our ijj
surprise on discovering a rectangular tomb, cut in the granite and full jj
of calcareous staglamites. In the centre was visible a human body, jjj
enveloped in a calcareous sudarium; it was lying in a sleeping position, ijj
and scarcely measured a yard and a half; its head, slightly raised, was jji
hidden in a pillow of carbonate of lime, and the legs also were hidden jjj
in the lime. We agreed to remove the limey covering, and, attacking i
it with acids, exposed a mummy in a good state of preservation, jj
Unfortunately, we were unable to extricate the legs without some j
deterioration, but the head came out almost intact. It was without
hair; the skin must have been smooth, and beardless, but it is now
wrinkled, and appears like tanned leather ; the skull is triangular, the j
face flat ; instead of a nose it has a trunk growing out of the forehead, j
a very small mouth with only fourteen teeth, two orbits from which the j
eyes had been extracted; the arms very long; fingers, of which the j
fourth is much shorter than the rest., The general construction is very j j
weak. We found no arms or jewels by the side of the mummy, but a ijl
small silver plate considerably deteriorated, on which can be distinctly ijj
seen the figure of a rhinoceros, a palm, and a sun, such as children | j
would draw. Around the sun were various stars; we have measured j j
their respective distances, and found approximately those separating j j
the planets Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Neptune, only jjj
that Mars was much larger than the others. Does not this distinction, j j
accorded to Mars over the other planets, show clearly the amour propre j j
of its inhabitants ? We think yes, and in our opinion there is no doubt i j
that the aerolite is a minute portion of that planet. The skeleton of the j j
planetary inhabitant, the amphora, and the silver plate will be ijj
exhibited gratis during my stay in Carcarana Este, at the house of Don j j
Francisco Ringoni, opposite the central station. The aerolite can be ! j
seen at any time, as from its great weight we have left it in the place j jj
where it has rested unknown for so many hundreds or thousands of I jj
years—that is, three miles north of Carcarana Este, near the coast: to j jj
go to see it and return, is only a matter of an hour’s journey from the j j
station. We invite all persons of education, interested somewhat in i j
science, to make the journey, and we will cheerfully give them all the j j
details they require. Besides which, we will show them the document jjj
drawn up concerning the affair, signed by all the inhabitants of Car- ij
carana ; and to those who desire it we will give a sketch, and a small jj
plaster cast of the inhabitant pi Mars.” Mr. Serarg is doubtless the j i
gentleman who saw the electricity from the bottoms of two lightning jjj
conductors, fixed on a glacier, decomposing the melting ice in an ice jjj
cavern into oxygen and hydrogen. An American captain of militia, jjj
hearing a strange noise in the cavern, incautiously entered it with a jj
light. The mountain of ice blew up, and fell as fine rain over a jj
circular area three miles and five-eighths in diameter, as carefully jji
measured by Mr. Serarg or his double. Not a feather or a vestige of jjr
the unfortunate captain of militia was ever seen afterwards. Perhaps jjj
he went to Mars on a fragment of ice. jj|
SPURIOUS PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA IN INDIA.
The Times, ia the course of the review of a book on
Modern India* by Professor Monier Williams, says :—
On the subject of Samadh, or burying alive, there are one
or two instances, which, however, in spite of the deception
practised, resulted in the death of the spurious devotee. In
one instance a man “ was actually buried alive in the
neighbourhood of a village. His friends were detected by
the villagers in pouring milk down a hollow bamboo which
had been arranged to supply the buried man with air and
food, the bamboo was removed, and the interred man was
found dead when his friends opened the grave shortly after¬
wards.” The other attempt was still more recent, and
occurred in the Kavra district in Gujerat. Mr. F. Sheppard,
the Collector, was informed that a man in a neighbouring
village was about to perform Samadh, so he despatched a
police orderly to stop the proceedings and arrest all concerned.
On the arrival of the official the man had been buried about
two hours. He was promptly disinterred—alive—but very
weak, and died the next morning. A medical examination
proved that the man died of heart disease. Certain hints led
Mr. Sheppard to believe an imposture had been attempted,
and on opening the house he found that—
The grave wag about three feet deep, being a hole dug in the
floor of the inner room of the house; the wall of the room
formed one side of the vault. As usual in India, the only light
admitted to the room was through the door, and the unsub¬
stantial nature of the roof was not likely to attract the attention
of the villagers, but I satisfied myself that the occupant of the
vault might with great ease have demolished the covering which was
supposed to shut him off from the world. The vault was, of course,
dark. I found therein the rosary of the deceased, and the chaplet of
flowers which he had worn before self-immolation. There was suffi¬
cient room for me to sit in tolerable comfort. On one side of the vault
I felt a small wooden plank let into the wall, and found that a trap
door had been ingeniously contrived to communicate with the other
room of the house. On going into the outer room into which com¬
munication had thus been opened, I found that a row of large earthen
jars which are used in India to store grain had been arranged against
the wall. The arrangement was neatly contrived, and was not likely
to have attracted suspicion. Had the Bhat been a strong man and in
good health he might, without any danger to life, and with only a
minimum of discomfort, have emerged triumphantly after his six weeks’
samadh, and have earned a wide reputation, but the excitement and
fasting were too much for him.
The above extract may give an insight into more attempts
at imposture than that of the Bhat of Gujerat. It reminds
us strongly of a similar case, where Runjeet Singh introduced
to the Mission sent to Lahore by Lord Auckland in the hot
weather of 1838, a Fakir who permitted himself to be buried
for the space of forty days and nights. Sir Claud Wade,
Captain the Hon. W. G. Osborne, and Dr. W. Macgregor
witnessed the man’s burial, put seals on his tomb, and saw
him disinterred, but failed to elucidate the mystery. So the
Samadh, though forcibly described by Professor Williams, is
an old plan for establishing sanctity in India, though often
attended with unpleasant results.
The essay on the Parsee Towers of Silence is on a painful
and repulsive subject; but in these days when we meet
advocates of cremation, of wicker coffins, and such-like
radical changes in the old-established, recognised customs of
Christian burial, it may be worth while to accept Mr.
Williams’s dictum:—
The exposure of the decaying body to the assaults of innumerable
worms may have no terrors for us because our survivors do not see the
assailants ; but let it be borne in mind that neither are the Parsee sur¬
vivors permitted to look at the swoop of the Heaven-sent birds. Why,
then, should we be surprised if they prefer the more rapid to the more
lingering operation ? And which of the two systems, they may reason¬
ably ask, is more defensible on sanitary grounds ?
Evangelists.—Among the more recent eccentricities of religious life
may be named certain individuals calling themselves “Evangelists
serving under the Lord’s restored Apostles.” There are said to be four of
these chosen “ Evangelists ” who predict the immediate coming of Christ
to rule over his earthly kingdom. They claim for themselves the gift of
healing, and with the usual toleration attack Spiritualism and Spirit¬
ualists. One of these gentry, speaking in a north country town
the other night, having learnt that a few Spiritualists lived there,
charitably said—“ The trail of the serpent has passed over this place.”
* Modern India and the Indians, being a Series of Impressions, Notes, and Essays. By
Monier Williams, D.CJj. London; Triibner and Co., Ludgate-hill. 1 vol.
so
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 19, 1878.
A PRIVATE SEANCE.
Last Saturday night a seance, was held at the house of
Miss Ottley, 41, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-square, London.
Mr. Rita was the medium, and the observers present were
Miss Ottley, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Colonel and Mrs.
Gordon, Miss Emmet, Mr. G. Ottley, Mr. W. S. Inglefield,
Mr. Prendergast, Mrs. Phil, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The sitting took place in the darkened drawing room, and
Mr. Rita’s hands were held all through the seance by Miss
Ottley on the one side of him, and Mr. Inglefield on the
other. The hands of the other sitters were interlinked.
Under these conditions a guitar belonging to Miss Ottley
flew about like a bat over the heads of the sitters : it was
playing all the time, and tapped against the ceiling when
requested. A heavy arm chair, as well as two of lighter
make, were floated over the heads of the sitters, and piled
upon each other on the table, where they were found when
a light was struck. A valuable and heavy clock from the
mantelpiece was also floated over the heads of the sitters and
placed uninjured on the table. Two or three times spirit
heads and shoulders robed in white, feebly illuminated by
their own light, were dimly seen by everybody present. At
critical moments during the sitting, when the manifestations
were exceptionally strong, Miss Ottley and Mr. Inglefield,
in reply to questions, testified they were still holding the
hands of the medium.
The attentoin of Mrs. Somerville had been practically given to
Spiritualism before her death, but she never expressed definite conclu¬
sions on the subject.
The Ralston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.—The
Council of the Ralston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism met
on Thursday evening last, 11th instant, Mr. John Rouse in the chair.
The hon. secretary read the minutes of the previous meeting of June 13,
which were confirmed. Letters of general interest were read from Miss
Emily S. Young, Rr. J. M. Peebles, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, and Mrs.
Prichard. A presentation from Mr. B. Coleman was reported, and
accepted with a cordial vote of thanks. Resignations of membership
were submitted from Captain James and Mr. J. R. Williams, which
were “ accepted with regret.” The hon. treasurer submitted the cash
accounts, which were passed. A letter was read from Miss Kisling-
bury respecting the work Isis Unveiled, and a balance due thereon
ordered to be paid. It was also resolved to give notice to discontinue
the monthly contribution for supply of printed Proceedings of the British
National Association of Spiritualists.
Rieficulties of Interpretation.—Mrs. Hardinge-Britten, in the
course of a letter to The Harbinger of Light (Australia), complaining of
errors in a report of one of her speeches printed in that journal, and
afterwards quoted in The Spiritualist, says:—“Atone of the sessions
of the New York Spiritual Conference, held some ten years ago, the
subject under discussion was ‘ The difficulty of rendering the thoughts,
wishes, and communications of spirits into human speech, through our
imperfect mode of telegraphy.’ By way of illustrating this point, Mr.
John T. Coles related the following circumstance :—There was a certain
itinerant preacher who had long harassed the Puritanic members of the
Boston community by ranting discourses, delivered to gaping mobs
assembled around his tub-rostrum on Boston Common. The reverend
street orator had once been a strolling player, and being, moreover,
somewhat addicted to the practice of spirituous stimulation, he not un-
frequently mixed up the two familiar professions by a remarkable jumble
of dramatic and theologic recitation. The police (who had orders
accordingly) carefully watched their opportunity, and waited for one of
his dramatic explosions to stop the nuisance. Acting on this plan, they
mixed with a large crowd assembled on a certain Sunday afternoon
when the preacher was to hold forth. Unfortunately, the influence of
his favourite habit was strong upon the luckless Boanerges, so that with
the effect of the spirit he had imbibed, came the memory of his old
profession ; thus, instead of starting in with a text from the Bible, he
plunged into Shakespeare, and led off with the opening lines of the
grand tragedy of Richard the Third, commencing—‘ Now is the winter
of our discontent, made glorious summer by the sun of York.’ This
was enough. No sooner were these lines pronounced than the officials
of the law were down upon him, and ‘His Reverence’ concluded his
Sabbath-day exercises in the ‘lock-up.’ When the case came before
the magistrates, and the charge of ‘ play-acting ’ in the public streets
had to be substantiated, the chief difficulty under which the magistrate
laboured was to obtain a clear testimony from the witnesses as to
whether the delinquent was preaching the gospel or spouting a play.
Numerous and clamorous were the allegations on both sides, until the
perplexed magistrate, pitching upon a shrewd-looking Yankee, asked
him whether he had been present at the preaching, and on receiving an
affirmative answer, desired him to state what he had heard fall from the
lips of the accused. ‘ Wall,’ replied the witness, ‘ I guess I heerd him
say as how he’d had a kind o’ bad winter lately, and that had made him
kind o’ discontent like, so he thought as how he’d just come right
through to New York, and there calc’lated to have a glorious summer ;
and 1 guess that’s about the sum and substance of the matter; ’ and
hat’s about the sum and substance of the way in which nine-tenths of
the poor spirits’ communications are interpreted, and in which nine-
tenths of us mistake the ideas they wish to impart to us.”
I AN APPARITION SEEN BEFORE THE ARRIVAL OF NEWS
J] OF THE REATH.
j < j BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, J.P.
j s j I had lately the rare chance to be told of an apparition
| (j seen by the sister of a maid-servant in my house, at a time
, (| when it was still unknown whether the person appearing was
(| alive or dead. It was afterwards found that the man died on
11 the same day, a few hours before his apparition was
(| seen by his friend in this country. The important
j | point in a case of this kind is that it precludes the supposi-
|! tion that the vision was a delusion of the imagination, the
j ready answer by which stories of this kind, where the
| evidence cannot be impugned on other grounds, are usually
j put aside.
| On the 16th May last my daughter’s maid, a woman in
J ! whom we have entire confidence, told me that one Saturday
| | evening about six weeks past, she had met her sister in the
I | street, and seeing her greatly agitated, her sister explained
111 that, about an hour before, she had been on her knees
i ? | scrubbing the floor, when she heard herself twice distinctly
111 called, Annie ! Annie !” She raised her head and saw a
| (j great friend of hers, whom she supposed to be in India,
| j | gazing at her through the window, looking very pale and
111 haggard. She immediately got up, and opening the door,
| | ran round to the front, thinking to find him at the window,
| | but seeing no one there, she took it for an apparition, and
| | was convinced that her friend was dead. He had been
I | greatly attached to her, and in the beginning of the year had
| | urgently pressed her to marry him, and, on her refusal, had
| | taken service in India, and gone to Madras. On the follow-
| i ing Monday Annie got some one to go to the mercantile
11! house in the City, which had sent her friend out to India,
j (I to inquire concerning him, and there she was informed that
! j he had been ill, and they were afraid that he would not be
151 able to stand the climate. She herself did not doubt that
m he was already dead.
| j | Thus the matter stood when the story was told to me. I
| | wrote it down at the moment, and begged my informant to
| | inquire again by-and-by and let me know the result. By the
II j end of June it was known that Annie’s friend had died
j 11 suddenly on the evening of Saturday, the 30th March, the
I (| day noted by Annie as the date of the apparition. As
!; I Madras is in longitude 80 deg., the time there would be five
j | hours and twenty minutes in advance of London time, so
III that the deceased must have been dead for about that time
| j when his apparition was seen in England.
j j It is remarkable that this was not the first experience of
! 11 the kind which had happened to Annie. Her husband, at
| | the time of his death in the spring of 1876, was in confine-
| | ment in Hanwell. At five o’clock on the morning of his
| ? | death his wife was awoke by hearing herself called, as in
jv the present instance, “ Annie ! Annie!” She felt that her
| (| husband wanted her for something, and immediately got
|) I up, and, as soon as she could, went off to Hanwell, where
j | j she found that he had died at the moment she heard herself
111 called, as mentioned in an account which I sent to The
|;! Spiritualist of August 31, 1877.
I (i Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London.
s' A large Chinese Encyclopaedia, just purchased by the British Museum
|) | authorities, has thirty or forty of its volumes devoted to magic, divination,
I c | spirits, astrology, and occult subjects.
II i Mr. H. Storjohann, a Norwegian gentleman just returned from South
j America, and deeply interested in Spiritualism, left Hull yesterday for
I his native town, Bergen, where he intends to work actively in dissemi¬
nating knowledge about psychological subjects.
I Reception at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s.—Last Wednesday night
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory gave a reception at 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, to Spiritualistic and other friends, among
whom were Prince Albert of Solms Braunfels, the Hon. Mrs. Forbes,
| Mr. Mayne, the Hon. Mr. and Mrs. Scarlett, Mrs. Loftus Otway, Mr.
H. Otway, Mrs. Betty, Mr. and Mrs. N. Trubner, Miss Ottley, Mr. G.
Ottley, Miss Emmet, Mr. W. S. Inglefield, the Rev. H. R. Haweis,
Colonel and Mrs. Gordon, Mr. Tamplyn, Mr. and Mrs. Cholmondeley
Pennell, Mr. Riversdale, Mr. Stewart Poyntz, Mr. and Miss Peele, the
Hon. Mrs. Brown, Mr. Bennett, Mrs. Linwood Strong, Miss Strong,
j General Brewster, Miss Jarvis, the Ven. Archdeacon Runbar, and Mr.
W. H. Harrison. Some exceptionally fine music by Mr. Tamplyn and
| Mrs. Betty, and singing by Miss Jarvis, entertained the company in the
I course of the evening.
July 19, 1878.
THE SPIUITUALIST.
31
THE EFFECT OF POISON UPON A POWERFUL MEDIUM.
BY THOMAS B. HAZARD.
Should we search the world over I doubt whether a
medium for materialisation purposes could be found
whose gifts exceed those of Mrs. Hull. During a short
stay I recently made in Boston, I called at her rooms, and
learned that she was just recovering from a sickness that
had nearly resulted in death, concerning which she on the
next day furnished me (by my request) with the following
written particulars, which I will preface with the simple
statement that, by a strange mistake, Mrs. Hull had acci¬
dentally taken from an unlabelled vial a dose of aconite
sufficient, probably, in quantity to kill, under ordinary cir¬
cumstances, half a score of individuals.
“As soon as I found,” proceeds her written statement,
V that I had taken aconite (a large teaspoonful) instead of
my cough medicine, I sent to a druggist for an antidote,
and also to my physician. I became aware that I had taken
a deadly poison, but after the first moments of excitement
were over I felt perfectly calm, and never for an instant
lost my presence of mind. My chief anxiety was for my
husband, who was many miles away, and the thought that
some might be so unkind as to say that my (anticipated)
death was brought about intentionally. But I soon dis¬
missed this fear, knowing that in this, as in other trials
through which I had passed, my soul was free from stain.
I soon felt a strange creeping sensation beginning at my
feet and hands, and spreading fast through my whole body.
I thought of my friends, those who had been so faithful to i j |
me at seasons of trial, when every kind look and word was } j
life to me, and I could not resist the impulse to write a fefa |
words to as many as possible, although I was fast losing !
the use of my limbs. I felt that I was in the hands of a j
loving Father, and that he had sent his angels to assist me, j
and carry me safely through, or take me to themselves. By j |
the time my physician arrived and administered to me, I j j
had become almost helpless. His cheery face and hopeful I j
words gave me new strength. Although I could plainly see j j
the anxiety he felt, I knew that everything would be done !
for me that human skill could devise. Still I fully realised j
my critical situation. I could not move a finger; but j
although my body seemed bereft of life, my brain remained as j
clear and active as ever. I could hear every whisper, and when j i
I heard it said that(my pulse was gone,’ and I became myself ! j
sensible how slowly and irregularly my heart beat, I told i j
them not to be frightened, as it was all right. The only j j
unpleasant effect of the poison I was sensible of was the | j
creeping sensation I have before alluded to. It seemed ! j
now to be fast approaching my heart. Soon after this I j
lost sight of those about me (although I could hear their j j
voices), and a cloud seemed to open just above my bed, j (
which revealed to me the most glorious sight I ever beheld. \ j
Just beyond was a sun whose brightness resembled our most | j
beautiful sunsets, but was more resplendent. The bright j |
space beyond the cloud was filled with spirit forms and | j
faces too beautiful for description. Some of these I recog- j J
nised, others I did not. Some held out their arms to me, j j
whilst others seemed to be throwing their mesmeric influence j
upon me. Then I distinctly felt a hand manipulating my j
heart. I seemed to open my eyes, when I plainly saw my !
uncle (who was a physician when in earth-life) at work upon |
me, with my spirit-father standing by his side. My spirit j
friends all looked so real to me that I repeatedly asked my j i
friends if they could not see them, and was surprised on j
their answering that they could not. In a short time the j
death-like feeling about my heart entirely left me. When j I
I looked into the smiling faces of my spirit-helpers, and i
realised what they had done for me, I turned to my anxious j I
earth-friends, and said,‘I shall live; lam saved through | |
spirit-power!’ I feel and know that my life was restored !|j
to me for a purpose, and, with the help of my spirit-guides, j j
I will try to perform the work they may give me to do,
faithfully, according to my ability. I will just say that I
while the physician was bathing my face with water, Molly j j
(my Indian control) spoke, and told him to put ammonia I j
into it.”—Banner of Light, jfi
| | ZSCHOKKE ON IMMORTALITY.
| | | BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S.
j I “ This, then, is the office of the real priests of God, whether
I | found on thrones or in council chambers, in pulpits or
II professors’ chairs, or merely at writing tables; to render
| I more truly humane the human race around them. Whether
j for their reward thorns shall grow for them on earth, or
| i palms in heaven, need concern them little. I, at least, no
| | longer felt myself troubled with thoughts of what might be
I j my fate after death. I had a living certainty of the pro-
i I vidence of God, and that tranquillised me concerning all the
j! rest.
“ It was at this time I wrote The Yearning after the In-
jjj visible, which expressed the joyful state of my feelings. I
| i often smiled at the strange proofs of the immortality of the
I soul, which philosophers had discovered, and thought that
j | pure, disinterested virtue would be an impossibility to us, if
j I we possessed any absolutely irrefragable proof, any indubit-
| | able certainty on this point. I thought, like Petrous
j Pomponatus, an independent thinker of the sixteenth
| century, who, I may say, ew was one of my old
j j favourities, 4 a virtue which should depend on the fear of
j ! punishment, or the hope of reward in eternity, could be, at
II best, but a holy virtue, or, perhaps, only a kind of mercantile
speculation.’ ”
Now many highly spiritual and noble minds have
expressed themselves very much in the same way in
respect to the belief in a future life. How common it is
to regard death as being at rest, or in sleep—u the sleep
of death,” 44 to sleep in dull, cold marble,” &c. My aged
friend Barry Cornwall (Procter) the poet, so regarded it, not
exactly as the Nirvana of the Buddhist, but ends his Ex-
humo” with—
Quiet at last, reposing
Under the moss and fern.
And again—
A flower above and the mould below,
And this is all that the mourners know.
Again, another aged friend, Basil Montagu, the sound
Baconian and philanthropist, would contemplate the image
of a sleeping child as representing death. Sir James
Mackintosh seemed to think that so long as life continues
it matters little whether with the same individual or
not; and we know how Harriet Martineau expressed her¬
self. We see the letter she wrote to me at the end of her
long, wearisome twenty years illness and confinement, just
before her death; and we see how with many thinkers a
sort of half-religious idealism seems to content them, whilst
others take to a Pantheism very close upon absolute mate¬
rialism, or to that nobler form of Atheism that Max Muller
has been lately so exalting. As for the great Bacon, he says
that the question is not so much the length of life as the
goodness thereof. It seems, then, that a more distinct line is
to be drawn between the mere belief in the spirits of the dead
and a future for ourselves, and pure and disinterested Spirit¬
ualism, and Spiritualists whose most earnest endeavour is
ever 44 to render more humane the human race around them,”
as expressed by Zschokke.
Boulogne, France, July 15th, 1878.
Mr. J. Coates, of Liverpool, writes that he will be in Macclesfield
on Sunday, the 21st, and will lecture in the open air at 2.30 p.m. on the
“ Advantages of Spiritualism to the Masses,’’ and at 6.30 p.m., in the
Society’s New Hall, on “ Private Experiences in Spiritualism and their
Lessons.”
Nature has laid out all her art in beautifying the face; she has
touched it with vermilion, planted in it a double row of ivory, made it
the seat of smiles and blushes, lighted it up and enlivened it with the
brightness of the eyes, hung it on each side with curious organs of
sense, given it airs and graces that cannot be described, and surrounded
it with such a flowing shade of hair as sets all its beauties in the most
agreeable light.—Addison.
A work entitled Egyptian Belief and Modern Thought (Kegan
Paul and Co.), by Mr. James Bonwick, F.R.G.S., has just been pub¬
lished, in which the author (who is a member of Council of the British
National Association of Spiritualists) gives a series of facts intended to
prove that at least five thousand years ago men trusted in Osiris as
the risen Saviour, and that they confidently hoped to rise, as he arose,
from the grave. The subjects of Amenti or Hades, heaven, purgatory,
and hell, are treated at much length, and the author has placed a
considerable amount of Egyptian lore at the disposal of readers.
32
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 19, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM AND GENERAL THOUGHT.
BT KENNETH E. H. MACKENZIE, IX0 . |
My excellent and enthusiastic friend and comrade in |
Spiritualism, Mr. Stainton-Moses, has, I think, occupied |
your valuable space very unnecessarily in his comments upon
my brief communication about a fortnight ago. I do not
claim to he an authority on Spiritualism. I go far beyond
that; I do not think that any individual has a right to do
more than honestly testify to the facts known to him, and
these facts he should state with as little theory as may be.
Any one may err; any one may see falsely; any one may,
perhaps, even unconsciously, mislead. I limit myself to a
mere statement of what I have personally seen and been
concerned with. It is quite true that Mr. Stainton-Moses
has very seldom come across my name in Spiritualism,
because most of the researches I have conducted have been
conducted in the privacy of home, where no influences could
prevail of a doubtful kind. It was sufficient for the pur¬
poses in view to establish the truth of the phenomena, the
issue being in the hands of a mightier Power. It is no¬
where, I think, written or stated that missionary work in
Spiritualism is a bounden duty. And Spiritualism presents
so many aspects, is so myriad-sided in its manifestations,
that absolute evil might be wrought by too hasty teachings.
The common nature of man insists upon the reality of a
future state, but he would be a bold man who would attempt
to define the infinite, to limit the limitless, or to assert that
the spirit world has not many provinces, differing in their
aspects as much as the geographical areas and zones of our
globe.
It is true that many scientific men of no mean parts or
repute have rejected the doctrine of a future world, but this
is not true of the highest among them. Faraday rejected
Spiritualism, it is true, but Faraday was an eminently trust¬
ful man in matters of faith. He was even a preacher and
teacher in the sect of Sandemanians to which he belonged. !
Cornelius Agrippa von Nettesheim was eminently pious, ]
although by his enemies he was regarded as little less than 1
a fiend. Hr. John Dee, throughout his communion with
spirits and angels, evinced a simple and sincere faith in the '
religious opinions of his age; and if we return to antiquity
we find Apollonius, Proclus, Plato, Socrates, Democritus,
Anaxagoras, Heraclitus, and many more devout men, of j
reasonable limits in their speculations.
Certain of the moderns, possessed by a critical, or rather j!
factious spirit, have chosen to doubt the common testimony j;
of mankind. They have gone so far as to proclaim themselves
Atheists ; and in this I doubt not they were sincere. But
any one who will give himself the trouble of investigating
psychological diseases will soon find that Atheism is a
psychological scourge which, after a time, passes away, and |
may be cured. But I very much doubt whether it is good policy j
to force upon the psychologically afflicted the nauseous leek
for which their intellectual stomachs are unfitted. If they
be in doubt, let them find their own way out of the labyrinth, i
and if they are worthy of their emergence they will soon get !
out. Like small-pox, Atheism leaves ugly scars on the
spirit, but is not always fatal. But I submit that we are I
not bound to fly to every strange phenomenon of Spiritualism
as our only refuge in cases of doubt and difficulty, any more j
than a man of moral life is bound to subscribe some special j
form of creed k> be esteemed a moral man. Hence I defend |
myself on the point that Spiritualism is not a social need.
I myself know many persons now alive and amongst us who
believe in Spiritualism, but who do not practise it. Like
myself, they are willing to wait the pleasure of the Almighty ]
until they are called hence. Others are differently consti- j
tuted, and hunger and thirst for spirit communications, j
I do not blame them. I have also hungered and thirsted,
and my bread has sometimes proved a stone, my living |
water a deadly poison. And why ? Because I was impatient,
and anticipated God’s law of regular evolution, and grasped,
with mistaken avidity, at Dead Sea apples. This was j
afterwards shown to me, and a more orderly series of j
truths revealed to me, often enough to my own self-abase- j
ment. But I do not regret it. I believe I may truly say I
I am at peace with all co-workers in this matter, and I am I
I willing to aid inquirers. But that I occupy any pre-eminent
| position as an authority I respectfully disclaim.
That intelligence can exist *{ apart from a physical brain
| and a physical organisation ” is self-evident, for God exists;
! and are we to suppose that that Highest Existence is limited
by marks of contrivance? Because man has failed to
| imagine anything more acceptable to his pride than his own
| form, he has created God in his own image, and assigned to
I the Infinite En Soph parts and properties. Although no
j one would call me orthodox, I still so far respect the belief
of others as to regard God as a spirit, and not merely a
| magnified man.
I concede that Spiritualism has satisfied many, nay
multitudes, of the existence of immortality and of spirit, but
| I am yet to learn that it has produced any marked change
| in general morality for the better. People still cheat, and
I quarrel, and are jealous and envious, I believe. Has it made
j the world as an aggregate wiser ? I know not. People are
I still prejudiced, will not hear, treat all sorts of serious
| matters with contempt. But if we could see the brighter
day dawning in which mere suspense of judgment should be
the rule, I should say that Spiritualism was actually perform-
| ing good. I am not shuddering at “ unsettled mindsbut
to deprive many a pious soul of a traditionary faith and
! substitute nothing but the ordinary routine of a spirit-rapping
| and materialisation stance is not, in my opinion, a step in
I advance.
There is one last point to which I would draw attention,
j As Spiritualism is true, the sceptics must, “ will ye nillye”
] be converted in time, so why waste precious moments in try-
| ing to force unwilling acquiescence from those who must
! yield it, as all who have passed the veil have yielded it ?
When missionary labour of alljkinds is in such disrepute, why
I extend the sphere of its operations ? It merely means, in its
| best interpretation—u I have convinced you of this, that, or
j the other, you therefore are my inferior, and I remain the
| victor.”
This is the child’s game of u Pm the king of the castle,
| get down you dirty rascal.” This game is unfitted for
! gentlemen.
i Hounslow, 13th July, 1878.
! PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS AMONG THE QUAKERS.
The New York Daily Times of July 1st, 1877, contained the fol¬
lowing narrative:—
Martin’s Ferry, Ohio, June 27, 1877.
I A very curious phenomenon has just occurred in this community.
| The scene of action is about five miles in the country back of town, on
! a main road leading to Cadiz, at the house of Mr. William McComas, a
wealthy farmer. The community around Mr. McComas are almost all
Friends (Quakers), and are not in the habit of producing sudden
excitements; hence their reports, together with those of well-known
citizens of this place and Wheeling, stamp the account with truth.
About nine o’clock on Monday morning Mrs. McComas heard a noise
in the pantry, and on going in to learn the cause was surprised to see
| almost everything there falling from the shelves to the floor, and on
i replacing some cans of fruit saw they would not stay, but reeled about
| and fell to the floor. Being alarmed, she at once went and called the
i men from the fields where they were at work. On coming into the
house they were struck with amazement at what was going on. The
neighbours were sent for, many of whom came at once, and saw sights
such as to throw the most advanced Spiritualistic medium far in the
shade. The cooking-stove moved from one side of the room to the
other. A large piano, weighing about eight hundred pounds, moved
! out from the wall half-way across the parlour. Two clocks, stationary
upon mantles, fell off upon their faces on the floor. They were replaced,
| and did not stop running, nor were they injured. A feather bed in one
| of the lower rooms raised itself high off the bedstead and rested on the
floor, while a feather bed upstairs was carried from one room through
another, down stairs, and rested on the hall floor. Pots filled with
water were thrown off the stove.
[j A sewing-machine was thrown almost across the room and rested
i j upside down. Several large jars containing butters of different kinds,
II and weighing about forty pounds, were turned upside down, and on
[ i being hastily filled by the almost frantic people, were placed in a tub,
i j where they remained but a moment, when they raised themselves out,
i ] emptying out their contents. A tea-canister filled with tea moved
! j across the room in such a position as to empty itself and cover the floor
I i with the tea as a farmer would cover the ground with grain; the
) i drawers from the bureau would slowly move from their places out into
1] the middle of the room; several large hams were repeatedly thrown from
the hooks to the floor, books from the tables and book cases were
) j thrown all about the room, and, in fact, everything movable was during
J i the day thrown out of place. While the strange scene was transpiring
| the neighbours were flocking in, and the passers by were filling up the
II house. More than one hundred saw the affair, and all speak of it as
July 19, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
33
something unheard of before. A part of the things in the pantry had
in the meantime been replaced by Mrs. McComas, and while yet there
explaining to a party of neighbours, everything she had replaced came
tumbling down upon their heads. A batch of eight newly-baked loaves
of bread was torn into hundreds of pieces and cast about the room,
several pieces of which were gathered up and sent to friends.
The phenomenon lasted all day Monday until night, was quiet
throughout the night, but commenced action again early Tuesday
morning, and ceased about noon. Hundreds of people have and are
still visiting the scene of excitement. Hacks are running from Bridge¬
port out to-day. The question in our excited community is, what is it ?
Dr. J. M. Todd (well known in Pittsburg), of Bridgeport, went out,
and, “ after a careful examination of all details and evidence,” reports
it as a mysterious and unaccountable truth.
THE DECARNATED. j I
There is a world of spirits fair, j )
All round about us and unseen ; j )
And those whom we call “ dead ” are there, j ?
With all that erst on earth hath been. i (
Our deeds they see, our words they hear, ! j
Our motives lie before them bare; » j ) |
They look us through and through. I ween, \ ( 1
Their skies are bright, their lives serene. ! ( j
Strangers are they to pain and fear; j j 1
No sorrow comes to them, nor care, I ) j
Nor aught to mar each lovesome scene. | ( j
Oh, think not that thy loved are dead: j)
They are of those who cannot die. Ml
For them let not one tear be shed,1 j \ I
For them breathe not one gentle sigh ; I ;
Give to the winds thy fears, thy dread— i ) |
A film is round and o’er thee spread, ! ( I
With which God hides them from thine eye, J
Or, thou would’st see thy loved ones nigh. j
Remember, that, of old, ’twas said, ) |
Upon the waters cast thy bread, I
And thou shalt find it by and bye. {
Not only in the quiet night, (
Not only in the busy day, j
Not only in the morning’s light, j
Or when the daybeam fades away, )
But, silently, as sunray bright (
Come those departed from thy sight, i (
To follow where thy footsteps stray, j
At mom, at noon, and evening grey. ! )
With love illumed and joy bedight, j (
The visitants from heaven’s height, ! (
The guardian angels of thy way. i j j
Biggleswade. J. F. Hunt. j) j
grorreaponuence. !
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed I ) i
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; I ) j
copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are not anonymous.'] I j |
" j ( j
SENSITIVE MOMENTS.
Sir,—I for one respond to your request, once made, to give informa- j) j
tion about times of special sensitiveness, though I have no claim j j j
to be either a sensitive or a medium. Upon two occasions within the j j
past year and a half I have felt and seen apparitions, which a second I) I
person has accurately described to me, in response to a mere general j j j
request to say what could be seen. The descriptions were given in j j f
accordance with what I saw, and there is not the slightest reason to j j j
believe that there was any act of mesmeric thought-reading.
On another occasion I had the feeling of holding a conversation with | j j
a disembodied spirit, the substance of which conversation was accu- | I j
rately given by the same (alleged) spirit through a mesmerised person. | j |
This, however, might possibly having been thought-reading, but I have j ) I
never yet met with proof of such, and I tried, whilst experimenting, to i j j
avoid possibility of thought-reading. On another occasion I saw a | H
hand with flowers, and also a dome tower with a clock; the hands of the ! ) i
clock were at about 1.20, whilst the time of day was about 10.5 a.m. j I ;
Both these facts were confirmed by the entranced sensitive, though how I j !
it was possible for myself) as the mesmeriser, to see a domed clock- j 1 j
tower (which the mesmerised afterwards described as in some foreign i |
town) at the time both saw it, I am unable to explain.
I experimented with planchette for a long time without any result, j j |
real or imaginary, although it worked with members of my family. On | ] |
one occasion I requested the presiding power to teach me also. Upon j (
this I felt a tingling sensation through all my body, as if I were pricked | ) j
slightly with pins; my brain seemed benumbed, and my head to swim 11 j
in a cloudy mist, and there was a sort of impulse to write which made a j 5 j
movement of the machine, and passed away in about half-a-minute. I ill
should imagine it to be the feeling which a person would have if ill
mesmerised, and the feeling was similar upon the two occasions men- I j i
tioned at the commencement of this letter; it was as if one set of senses i j
was closed, and a new sense opened.
Some eight years ago, whilst studying Rosicrucianism, I employed I j
some invocations to the higher spirits of fire, and beheld at that time I j
an appearance which I again saw more dimly. The same spirit appeared j I j
more clearly to a mesmerised sensitive, and was accurately described as j) j
I had seen it. I recognised it as a friend of our family. Upon being I I
questioned as to the cause of my first seeing the appearance, the spirit j {j
said, <f I was laid amongst the flowers by the crystal waters of the sixth
heaven, when a voice told me to rise and follow a pencil-like ray of
light, which would lead me to one whom I was to watch over.” I
remember also a curious incident which occurred to me perhaps twenty-
three years ago, when I was reading up on hypnotism. I ordinarily
never dream, but by following the rules of that system, I could induce
very nicejlandscape dreams. Upon one occasion I willed myself"to awake
at seven o’clock. About that time I had a consciousness that I was
asleep, and wished to know the time; my watch was under the pillow,
and the pillow seemed to become transparent, and to offer no impediment
to my seeing the time. I resolved to awake, turned down the pillow, and
behold, my watch gave the exact instant I had previously seen it indi¬
cate—that is, three and a half minutes past seven. I imagine this to be
what is called clairvoyance. Twelve months ago I should have said
these things were y only imagination'; ” but I am, after many tests, at a
loss to say how imagination, which was not real, could explain them.
As to trance lucidity in others, I have proved its reality many times in
a way which could be explained "only by various impossible collusions.
I shall still experiment, and report in due course, in case I find the
phenomena as unreliable as the materialistic doctors.
John Yarker.
Withington, Manchester.
SPIRIT IDENTITT.
Sir,—Those who have had no good personal tests of identity from
departed relatives seem to be tossed about by every wind of doctrine
—by every new theory applied to the abnormal phenomena of
Spiritualism.
Many and various are the theories relating to spirit and soul and
their capabilities, urged by individuals who scarcely realise the fact
that man is an embodied spirit; their arguments are analogous to
those of many preachers who assume what God is, and what He can
and cannot do, as if their poor finite minds could grasp the infinite, or
as if it were possible to put the ocean into a basin. Bearing this in
mind, I should like to ask dogmatists—What do you know of spirit 1
What do you know of soul ? You are conscious of physical and
intellectual existence, it is true; but when Dr. Wyld states, “ Man is a
spirit, and possesses the same powers as the departed spirit,” he will
forgive me if I ask him for evidence.
Man, who has only experience of the life that now is, cannot readily
be conceived to possess powers of a departed spirit, who has additional
experience as a spirit in another state of existence, or to know the
laws which govern both existences, any more than I, who have never
been out of England, could go to the Royal Geographical Society
and put myself on a level with Stanley or Livingstone.
My experience of spiritual phenomena for some years tends to prove
that the will-power of individuals and mediums affects the manifesta¬
tions more or less ; not that men produce the phenomena by willing
them, or that they have any knowledge of the how and the why they
are evolved, but that the passivity of the minds of all present is
necessary, so that the medium can be acted upon by outside influences
—spiritual, of course.
I recollect that once a gentleman asked u Cissy ”—one of the little
black controls of Miss Fairlamb, of Newcastle-on-Tyne—how it was
she was not quite so black as usual when she had materialised just
previously. She replied that there was not sufficient black in the
circle present, and, on looking round at all the sitters, I found that they
were nearly all fair people.
The answer may or may not have been correct, but it is my
experience that not only the will-power of mediums and individuals
affects stances, but that the physical and intellectual conditions of
those present do so also. I do not mean that these influences blindly
produce the phenomena, but that they are used by the disembodied
intelligences as best suits their purpose when producing phenomena,
of the laws of which we know little or nothing, and about which it is
as difficult for them to give information to us as it is for a butterfly
to convey an impression of its surroundings to a caterpillar whose life
consists of its experiences on the cabbage on which it was born.
In regard to the identity of departed spirits, my personal experience,
together with that of others which I have read for some years past in
The Spiritualist and Medium, is that those spirits which have given
the best evidence have generally been persons who have died by their
own hands, or hare lived in a low state in earth life. My first personal
experience was through a young lady medium when for the first time
entranced ; the spirit purported to be my cousin, who had committed
suicide by drowning herself (a love affair) at Hampstead. This was
correct, and a thing which the medium knew nothing of. I then made
arrangements to take another medium on the Sunday following to the
mother to have a seance; he knew nothing of the family or the
drowning case. There were present myself, medium, aunt, and cousin.
We had not long sat at the table when the medium exclaimed, “How
cold ! Oh, how wet! Oh, I’m drowning 1 ” Then came a flood of
tears from him; then, clasping hands with the two ladies, he
exclaimed, ‘l Mother! Sister! Forgive me! ” Other explanations
followed, and nothing now will convince those who were present but
that it was really the spirit of the drowned girl controlling the
medium, asking forgiveness for the trouble her rash act had given her
mother. “ Emotional,” some may exclaim. Yes, but the true logic
of the affections.
Several years have passed over since then, and I myself have become
somewhat of a medium. Another stance occurs to my mind. It was
at a pit village at West Pelton, near Durham; the sitters were about
half-a-dozen sturdy pit hands, and among the things that took place I
for one was controlled, and by automatic personation I represented
myself as a kind of devil-may-care half-drunken character, when 1 was
suddenly thrown on the floor and rolled over and over. I felt as if I
were being crushed under the wheels of a locomotive. On recovery the
34
THE SPIKITUALIST
July 19, 1878.
initials of a name were given through the table, but not recognised"
Nothing was made of it—we could get no more. Twelve months after
I was in the same place again, and had forgotten my former experience
till I was served the same way again ; the same initials, not recognised,
were given, but we were told that the spirit would control a trance
medium of theirs (not then present) another time. A few Sundays
afterwards, when in Newcastle-on-Tyne at one of the Sunday services,
two of the West Pel ton men came up to me. “ Well, Mr. Rhodes, we
have it now. We know the man who controlled you; he gave his
name through Pigford, our trance medium. He went to Newcastle
races a year or so ago along with another man, got drunk, lost his
money, started to walk home along the wagon-way, and was run over
by a train and killed.” Now in this case it took three seances,
extending over a period of twelve months, to establish the identity of
the spirit, who also had to use two mediums ; and I know of several
cases where two or even more mediums have been used, with the evident
desire to prove that it was not the mind of the medium at the root of
the intelligence. Of course, other cases have come within the expe¬
rience of many Spiritualists, where more advanced and intelligent
spirits have proved their identity ; but it seems to me that the lower
class of spirits have more power to do it, and also to produce physical
manifestations.
It is often thought that many of the minor physical phenomena are
the work of “ elementaries,” because of their apparent uselessness;
but let inquirers look around at society in some of our large towns and
study the habits of what may be termed “ the residuum ” of popu¬
lation, and see how elementary are their actions. The Rev. H. W.
Beecher, speaking on “The Descent of Man,” said “ that he would as
lief have descended from a monkey as from some men he knew.”
And what sort of manifestation could be expected from such indi¬
viduals when they get on the other side ? But the question, after all,
is—Are these minor phenomena, which some “ Pooh, pooh ! ” so absurd
after all i
I recollect, about twelve months ago, at Newcastle-on-Tyne, I and
another person arrived at the rooms of the Association there before
anybody else, and took it into our heads to be a research committee.
We accordingly, not being able to find anything else, put into a corner
of the cabinet a piece of wood, two nails, and a pair of pincers, to
serve as a hammer, and said not a word to another living soul. The
company arrived. The medium, Miss Fairlamb, was seated outside
the cabinet; no one had been in except Mr. Armstrong, to put in the
bells, tambourine, and the usual paraphernalia, and after all of us
were seated, the first performance, to the consternation of the company,
was the pincers being thrown about inside the cabinet. Addressing
the company I said it was all right, and I asked “Geordie” if he
would do what I wanted with the nails and hammer ? Three loud
raps. Then commenced a row inside the cabinet. The hammering
over, the piece of wood was thrown out into the circle ; the two nails
had been driven in, and one had the head knocked off. What intelli¬
gence did this ? The medium and circle, who knew nothing of it, and
who sat in the light, so that every movement of all could be seen ; or
was it the will-power of we two individuals 1 If the latter, I have
found out a new way of carpentering and joining, and will not be slow
to avail myself of offering my services to any employer of labour
whose hands are on strike. J. T. Rhodes.
26, Albert-street, Edinburgh.
SPIRITUALISM AND CONJURERS IN CAPE TOWN.
Sir,—Some four weeks ago two persons, calling themselves Messrs.
Kellar and Cunard, “The Royal Illusionists and Anti-Spiritualists,”
arrived in Cape Town, after having been in Bombay, China, and
Australia. They told me that in Australia they were taken for physical
mediums. I attended their performance here nearly every night, and
detected almost every trick. The rope-tying trick, and the freeing of
themselves in the cabinet in a few seconds, are simply done by their
slipping their hands out through the loop which ties their wrists, their
hands being so supple that they can be pulled through any space, no
matter how tightly the wrists are tied, for they are only tied ip a simple
way—no test at all. The dark stance and flying coat are perplexing to
many, but I detected the tricks after two exhibitions. The chief performer
having the power to free his hands in a few seconds, and to slip them back
again, he requests his feet to be placed on paper, and the paper marked,
then “ lights out.” He first slips his hands out, seizes a guitar in each
hand, and manipulates each one with two fingers while holding them;
the guitars seem to float about, but only at the height of a tall man.
The next thing is the flying coat test. “Lights out,” he instantly
grasps two guitars, jumps up on his chair, and twirls the guitars round,
alternately turning the sounding-board to the stage and audience, in
order to increase or diminish the sound. Jumping down quickly he
pulls off his coat (I pulled mine off in his presence in three seconds
only, as a bet, to prove I could do it), rolls it up, puts it on his right
foot, then calling for a “ light,” after having replaced his hands in the
simple knots, immediately the light is struck he quickly kicks the coat
up in the air, and it is seen flying. But do the committee then examine
his feet, to see if still on the pencil marks ? No, of course not, although
he mounted the chair to make the guitars appear as if floating in the
air. He takes good care, when the light is struck, to move at once, so
that the committee are thrown off their guard. The “ holding ” test is
at first apparently astounding, but easily seen through, a means of escape
always being left open for them to trick. Two gentlemen are asked up,
but put into such positions as virtually make them dummies. Kellar
then puts one hand of the gentleman’s on his (Kellar’s) head,
and the other on the knee of the other person. He (Kellar) then
puts his left hand over or on the gentleman’s arm, and places
his (Kellar’s) other right hand right over his own left hand,
“ Lights out,” he simply presses a little more with his left hand to
111 equalise the weight, and raises the right hand clean off; it is then free
i j | to manipulate the instruments next to his feet.
11 The “vanishing bird-cage” is done after the manner of a piece of
J | money attached to elastic up the arm. On touching a string, the cage
I folds up just enough not to hurt the bird; by quick and dexterous
] [ manipulation it is seen to vanish, but is pulled up under the dress-coat
J | by a rapid extension of the arms. I saw the front part of the coat near
j! the arm-pit quite thick.
j The pillory or stock test is done by Cunard simply slipping out his
I | wrists when in the cabinet, the same as he and Kellar can slip any iron
j ring over their hands on to their wrists, as I saw them do it. He then
j I takes a small screwdriver which he has concealed about him, and
| | deliberately unscrews a single screw, and pressing on a spring all the
| | others fall out, the lock and seals never being touched. He told me as a
j j j blind that I could nail the pillory. They also told several of us that
j | they could make a table float or follow them without contact, weld two solid
! | rings together in ten seconds, put my own solid ring on their arms when
|| I held their hands, but they never did it. They tried to make us
! | believe that they possessed medial power. I never compromised myself,
j ! but told them if they could do what they asserted, I would risk my repn-
] | tation, and declare them in possession of medial power. They then
| j simply “ played bounce.” On Saturday they gave their last exhibition
j in the large Exhibition Buildings, before 2,000 people, and explained all
! their “ spiritual ” tricks, just as I anticipated; but before they did so
| I wrote to the Times, stating my opinion as to how they were done,
i They say that they were eight years with the Davenports, but their
| tricks are a travesty as compared with what is reported by Dr. Ferguson
II and others, though very skilfully done. The performance is all pure
j 11 trickery, as they showed it to be on Saturday. Berks T. Hutchinson,
I j i Cape Town, South Africa, June 23rd, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE DRAMA.
i (j Sir,—Your able article upon this question was highly suggestive, and
j |; ought to lead to an interesting discussion. The theatre will ever
!) | remain a popular national institution among all civilised peoples, and
I i the progress of enlightened religion should conciliate and purify
| | what it can never destroy. Spiritualists especially should encourage,
I) | and try to elevate the legitimate drama. It is from its very nature
! I spirituelle, weirdly, historic, and intellectual. All good plays abound
II j with incidents which are essentially occult, poetic, and passionate, with
' j I the preternatural elements of the highest poetry. Now Spiritualists
I | claim to be the very creme de la creme of refined and thoughtful
! | society—the exemplars of rare intellectual and religious culture in all
! i parts of the world. Surely, then, the stage, in its better forms of
| | histrio‘nic expression, has a charm for such people it were sham modesty
in to deny.
j j All great actors are great Spiritualists, in so far as they revivify, with
III more than ghostly acclaim, the wonderful personages of history and
■ i tradition. The supernatural glamour, facts, and allusions of Shakespeare,
i i are only equalled by the quaint and older spirit-lore of the Bible.
| I Modern dramatists, when they are men of genius, catch up the same
| | intercommunion with persons ghostly; and the two worlds meet in
| j | dialogue, musical reverie, pathos, laughter, and scenic display.
i : Moreover, the theory of “ inspiration,” mental introspection, and
j j | frenzied trance eloquence is well illustrated in Henry Irving, Miss
i Heath, Mrs. Stirling, and the more refined and intellectual favourites of
I the London stage. Like great pulpit orators our front rank theatrical
performers become, at times, lost, with fruitful and dreamy abandon,
| through studies, emotions, and conceptions, which can only be explained
| by the known emotions which underlie psychology.
I Garrick, Fanny Kemble, and the Keans gave an unearthly force
I to the subtle passions of tragedy. In their impersonations playgoers
witnessed a resurrection of the kings, queens, and courtiers of long
ago. The witches in Macbeth, the spectre in Hamlet, and indeed
the multitudinous goblin appearances throughout the wide and mystic
range of stage literature, prove that the drama is conspicuously anti-
materialistic, psychical, and invariably religious in conception. What
a study is “ Ophelia!”—lovely, picturesque, full of flower-language,
and the surface lunacy of trance mediumship. There is a method,
I and a moral, in such madness.
I Take the higher mission of the stage, the opera. Here is “ Spirit¬
ualism ” to perfection. The finest raptures of the soul flow out upon
| the operatic stage with overpowering intensity of music, song, weirdly
conversation, and the midnight romance of the immortals. The master¬
pieces of Goethe, Schiller, and the great poet-dreamers of mirth and
mystery, startle, charm, instruct, and console us. The aerial passages
of the “ spirits ” in Faust, the wailing crowds in the hell which
Dante imagined, or even the angels with whom Milton communed,
| testify to the scenic fascination of beings, and conditions, unearthly,
i Again, stage, yea, platform elocution, gives to literature, art, and
! historic experience rekindled vivacity, and the force of a new inter¬
pretation. In the beautiful acting of Miss Fowler we are, for the time,
haunted with the wonderful “ spirit ” of Nell Gwynne; and the awful
past is finely linked to the present, by the rare and half-religious
ecstasies of genius. A further remove from the gleam of the footlights,
and Mrs. Browning’s “ Mother and Poet ’’ comes before us as an ap¬
parition—with voice, visibility, and contagious tenderness, such as Ella
Dietz only can speak, and act.
] In conclusion, the preternatural element in play-lore, operatic recitals,
and platform efforts to exhibit the soul-power of books, appeal to the cul¬
tured understanding with irresistible spirituelle attraction. Reflecting,
j with mirrored truthfulness and severity, the lax morals of this materialistic,
selfish, money-grubbing period of mere animal enjoyment, the modern
theatre can only grow more chaste in tone and sentiment as society
i recovers its balance and spirituality. There may soon come a reaction
i in Europe against lust and the worship of golden calves. Meanwhile,
July 19, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
35
the abuses of the stage may be modified by the presence and patronage of j
such refined and liberally religious people as the Spiritualists; especially
as many reverent investigators belong to the various Churches, retaining i
the sweetness and breadth, without the cant and repulsive narrowness of j
our noble, but man-distorted, Christianity. J. T. M. [
71, Penton-place, London, S.E.
THE HEALING POWER OP MESMERISM.
Sir,—Permit me to offer you a brief account of the manner in which
I was cured of an acute attack of neuralgia. About a fortnight since I
was suffering so much from this affliction that I could not masticate my i
food, nor indeed open my mouth, when a friend recommended a trial of !
the healing power of Mr. Omerin. I accordingly saw him ; and by the i
simple application of his hand to my face, I was cured in five minutes, i
The pain was completely removed, by means which seemed wonderful,
though very simple and natural. Out of gratitude to Mr. Omerin, I
should like, through your kindness, to make the case public. Mr. j
Omerin evidently possesses extraordinary healing power, which has
effected much and almost instantaneous relief. M. A. G. Lyon.
31, Bedford-place, London, W.C., July 15th, 1878.
THE LUNACY LAWS. j)
Sir,—It may not be uninteresting to those who are at present con- j (
cerned about the lunacy laws and their application, to know something | (
of the contradictory manner in which they have been applied locally J j
in practice to Liverpool workhouses. I (
Titus Tango, writer of “ Local Touches ” in the Liverpool Weekly j (
Post of Saturday, July 13, says:— j (
“ What they have hitherto denied to the West Derby Guardians, the ! \
Local Government Board have—after considerable delay, however— ij
given to the guardians for the township of Toxteth Park. They have, !)
in short, delivered an authoritative opinion as to how the master of a ii J
workhouse should act when a lunatic is brought to him with an order j j
for admission. I hardly think, however, that the opinion meets the j) I
position in which the West Derby Guardians and their officers have (
been placed, however much it may satisfy those for Toxteth Park. The j j j
Local Government Board direct that a master cannot refuse admission j j I
to the workhouse to a man who is brought there with an order signed by | (|
a relieving officer on the mere ground that the man is a lunatic. On j j j
the other hand, the law has been stated to be that all the lunatics in the i j j
workhouse—it not being a licensed asylum—can demand their dis- ■ (]
charge at any time ; and, if that be so, I cannot see how a master can j) i
safely admit a lunatic who at the same time protests that he does not !)
want admission. The master of the Walton workhouse admitted a man j ( j
under such circumstances, and got mulcted in heavy costs in defending ] 11
in the superior courts his action in the matter; the master of an j j j
adjacent establishment, warned by those serious consequences, declined (j
admission to another man in a nearly, if not entirely identical position, j I
and is now told by the Local Government Board that he did wrong. )
Either the Local Government Board, or the judge who tried the case •
against the Walton master, is in error. It may be that the Local > j
Government Board is beyond the law, but if so the administrators of it j j
should be informed of that fact.” ] J
A little more evidence is required, showing the necessity of urgent j I
reform in the matter. J. Coates. j /1
12, Lime-street, Liverpool. j; j
MR. EGLINTON IN DEVONSHIRE. | ) j
Sir,—Mr. Willie Eglinton, who left England on Friday last in (
the steamship Balmoral Castle for Cape Town, gave a very interesting j j
physical seance to a party of twelve ladies and gentlemen the evening }
previous to his departure, which was conducted under test conditions. (j
Mr. Eglinton, until he entered the room, had no idea where the meeting | i
was to take place, and up to the moment of taking his place at the table ) j
with the sitters, he had not been left for an instant in the room by (I
himself. A large musical box, a concertina, two common house bells, (|
and some rolls of music, had been provided purposely by some of the j j
party who wore sceptics, and who were determined there should be no I (|
collusion in the affair. Four of the party had never witnessed or taken I j j
partin a seance before. The sitting commenced at 8.15 in the drawing- i) j
room at a gentleman’s house, and was unsuccessful for a period of over an it!
hour. I must remark that the sitters were placed around a table, with their ; j j
hands interlocked, including the medium, whose hands were never re- i /!
leased during the whole time of the sitting, After sitting more than an J
hour in vain the first manifestation took place. Mr. Eglinton’s control, | j |
“ Joey’s,” voice was distinctly heard ; then raps were given, and “ Joey,” j j |
in obedience to requests, gave three notes from the musical box; it was j j i
then set playing by him. Various brilliant lights were seen appearing j > ]
in all directions; the bells commenced ringing, starting from and re- M
turning again to the table several times; the musical box rose from the j (I
table, and floated over it, and then started off at a great rate to the j j j
other part of the room, returning again on the table with a loud I) \
crash, and the bells at the same time going and returning in a similar | (\
manner. The concertina was loudly sounded, and this melee was ij
kept up for some considerable time. During this time various persons I)
were knocked about the head; one gentleman had his chair removed j j
from under him and placed on his shoulder ; another had a sofa cushion j j
and antimacassar flung on him; at the same instant a chair came flying I)
across the table, and was brought up by its top bar resting against one of I j
the sitters. “ Joey’s ” voice was clearly heard at the extreme end of the | j
room, and much noise and banging sounds were heard. Just then Joey j c
was heard writing with a pencil in a book which had been left open on the j j
table. At this juncture a terrible crash was heard, and the circle was ] /
immediately broken up at the medium’s particular request, when, on IJ
the gas being turned up, it was both astonishing and laughable to see j j
the indescribable confusion into which the room had been thrown—
chairs and other things lying on the table, a portion of the glass
chandelier broken to atoms, a heavy sofa had been removed from the
upper to the lower end of the room, and had been turned with its front
to the wall, and the musical box, weighing over twenty pounds, was
found resting on it. Thus ended, at about 11 p.m., this remarkable
stance, which was the first ever given by a professional medium in this
town. W. T. Bossiter.
Stokefleming, near Dartmouth.
MR. A. R. WALLACE’S MERITS APPRECIATED BY THE DUTCH.
Sir,—Being now in your town I received a post-card from a Spirit¬
ualist friend telling me that Mr. Alfred Bussel Wallace has been
elected honorary member of the Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences.
This scientific society is well known all over the Continent and in Eng¬
land, and its name is of high repute. You see that the Dutch do not
think Spiritualists to be weak-minded people, for it is pretty well known
that Mr. Wallace is a Spiritualist; moreover, his works on the subject
exist in Dutch. It is a pleasure to give you this news while amongst
the brethren here.
Your city is an immense one, and I think there is no other so
remarkably adapted for the study of human life. Everything is on a large
scale, luxury and misery as well. I have already met some of our
brethren, and hope to meet with others before leaving England.
A. J. Riko (from the Hague).
26, Southampton-row, London.
On Tuesday, July 23rd, at 8.30 p.m., a paper will be read at Quebec.
Hall, 25, Great Quebec-street, Marylebone, before the Marylebone
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, by Miss Kislingbury, on
“ Spiritualism, its Moral Benefits and Dangers.”
Adequate Testimony.—A testimony is sufficient when it rests on—1.
A great number of sensible witnesses, who agree on having seen clearly.
2. Who are sane, bodily and mentally. 3. Who are impartial and
disinterested. 4. Who unanimously agree. 5. Who solemnly certify
to the fact.—Voltaire (Philosophical Dictionary).
Soma Juice.—Dr. J. M. Peebles writes to The Banner of Light:—
“The celebrated plant soma, from the root su, in the Vedic language
signifies to beget, to extract, to.inspire. It is denominated in Hindu
mythology, because of its transforming influences, the * vivifying plant
that calls the gods, that lengthens life, and confers immortality.’ It
grows in the mountains of India and Persia, and is known technically
under different names. It was called by the gymnosophists sarcostema
viminalis ; and when gathered by moonlight, pressed between two
white stones, and prepared by the Bishis in a certain way, produces
ecstasy. If drank too freely after standing in the sunlight, it throws
the more sensitive into a strange abnormal clairvoyance. One of the
many varieties of palm-bark tincture, and the root of the sweet lotus,
found around the marshy ponds of India, produce similar effects. All
of these act as excitants upon the nervous system. If experience is
knowledge, I know something what their effects are. Luckily forming
the acquaintance of T. Rajahgopaul, Naiker, S. Srinovasa lyenqar, of
Tajore, and other eminent Brahmins, I was put in possession of
several kinds of these trance-inciting and ecstasy-producing roots and
plants to experiment with at leisure. The ancient Rishis regarded the
mountain soma vine as not only precious, but sacred in the eyes of
the gods, because aiding them to come into more conscious relations
with mortals. When rightly prepared by the priests of the temples,
and drank to the extent of producing mental exaltation, the subjects
were said to be inspired, improvising hymns and revealing future
events. In the Rig- Veda we read : — ‘ This inspiring soma, when
drunk, stimulates my speech. It opened the windows of my soul.
.... It was this that called forth the ardent thoughts. ... We
have drunk the soma syrup; we have entered into light; we have
known the gods; we have become immortal. . . . We summon thee,
soul of Varuna, with soma Do thou enter into us full of
kindness.’ ”
Ancient and Modern Miracles.—Last Sunday the Rev. Mr. Dob¬
son preached at the Unitarian Chapel, Brighton, from the text, “He
could not do these things because of their unbelief.” They might ask why
not, when unbelief was the very thing for which the miracles were per¬
formed. He added that their friends the Spiritualists said that Jesus
Christ was a medium of a high order, but he thought it was possible to
explain the miracles without having recourse to Spiritualism. A
belief in miracles was not necessary to a belief in Christianity. St.
Paul himself did not think so, and they should recollect that his was
a credulous age, which abounded in sorcery. He would not say that
the ancient miracles were all fictitious, but if they admitted their reality
why not admit those of the present day, which were supported by far
stronger evidence. He thought that they might leave the matter un¬
decided till they had farther or better evidence as to whether they really
did or did not take place. Belief in Christ was not dependent on belief
in miracles; if all miracles were taken entirely away they would
still have the grand truths of the Gospel just the same. They could
part with miracles more easily than with the Sermon on the Mount.
They did not turn to the miracles in hours of affliction or doubt.
Whilst discussing Christianity with its opponents they did not quote
the miracles, and perhaps would rather that their opponents did not
allude to them. He was not saying “Do not believe in them,” for if
they caused any men to live better lives such should keep to their
belief in them. He dared not say that a miracle was an impossibility,
and was not admitting either belief or disbelief in miracles, but was
asserting that he preferred the more practical life of Christ. Confucius,
Mahomet, and other great teachers were said to have performed
miracles, but who believed that they had been able to do so ?
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 19, 1878.
TRANCE PHENOMENA.
Dame Nature is continually gratifying our appetite for the strange
and wonderful, manifesting her unbounded capabilities, and displaying
her freaks and fancies in the most unaccountable ways, puzzling alike
to the learned and unlearned. Thus she entices man to study her
laws more intensely, to unlock her hidden secrets, and ultimately to
confess that she is under the direction of One to whom nothing is
impossible. For this end she is continually working miracles, not
those only which her ordinary phenomena present to our senses every
day, but in occurrences and productions so completely at variance
with all the systems under which philosophers have arranged her
laws, that man is compelled to confess how little he yet knows of her
mysteries.
Recently we were astonished in this country with the discovery that
she could produce living insects from pulverised flints, and now we
are even more wonderstruck at learning that in India, that land of
wonders, she has brought forth a man capable of sustaining life for a
month, although bricked up in a tomb for the whole of that time.
This miracle is described in the Indian Journal* by a Lieutenant A.
H. Boileau, an engineer in the Hon. East India Company’s service,.
and his testimony is corroborated by Captain Trevelyan, of the
Bombay Engineers, and of Lieutenant Macnaghten, of the 5 th Regi¬
ment of Light Cavalry.
It appears that this singular being, who allows himself to be buried
alive for weeks or months by any person who will pay him hand¬
somely, is a young man about thirty years of age, born near Karnaul.
By long practice he has acquired the art of holding his breath, and
stopping the interior opening of the nostrils with his tongue. He
abstains from solid food for some days previous to his interment, so
that he may not be inconvenienced by the contents of his stomach
while pent up in his narrow grave.
The place in which he was buried at Jaisulmer is a small building,
twelve feet by eight, built of stone, and in the floor was a hole about
three feet long, two and half wide, and the same in depth, in which
he was placed in a sitting posture, sewn up in a bag of cloth, so that
the white ants and other insects might not easily molest him. His
feet were turned inwards towards the stomach, and his hands pointed
inwards towards his chest. Two heavy slabs of stone were placed over
him ; the door of the house was then built up, and guards were placed
outside to prevent collusion or deception.
At the expiration of a full month the walling up of the door was
broken, and the buried man was dug out of his grave. He was found
in a perfectly senseless state, his eyes closed, his hands cramped and
powerless, his stomach shrunk very much, and his teeth jammed so
fast together that, before a little water could be poured down his
throat, his mouth was obliged to be forced open with an iron instru¬
ment. He gradually recovered his senses, and, though presenting an
appearance of extreme emaciation, his spirit was good, and his con¬
fidence in his powers unabated. In proof of this, he told Lieutenant
Boileau and Captain Trevelyan that they might bury him again for a
twelvemonth if they pleased!
It is said that he has undergone the process of burial and disinter¬
ment six or seven times. In one instance, at Pokhur, he was suspended
for thirteen days in a wooden chest, hung from the ceiling, which, he
says, is the best method of putting his powers to the test, as
the box is open to inspection on all sides, and the white ants, &c.,
can be better excluded from getting at his body while he remains
in a state of insensibility. Lieutenant Boileau says that he fully
believes that the man is no impostor, but that he really possesses
the powers described. For seven or eight days preceding the
burial at Jaisulmer, the man lived entirely upon milk, regulating
the quantity so as to sustain life, whilst nothing remained to give
employment to the excretory organs. Lieutenant Boileau understood
that the man soon regained his strength ; and that, being disappointed
in not receiving the promised reward from his patron, he had stolen a
camel and decamped. This generous patron was one of the ministers
of the Muharawul of Jaisulmer, who certainly deserved a similar
inhumation by way of teaching him humanity. Our newspapers have
recently teemed with deprecations of the enormity of one of our
theatrical managers pandering to a vitiated taste by hiring a female to
risk her life by ascending an inclined rope in one of our playhouses.
What would they say to the spectacle of burying a man alive ?
The editor of the journal quoted remarks that, until further informa¬
tion be obtained, it might be precipitate to theorise on the probable
means by which this extraordinary creature maintains the mastery over
the functions of life. He states that it is now well known that the
slaves in South America exert the power of forcing the tongue into the
larynx, and retaining it there to obstruct respiration and occasion
death, when desirous of committing suicide.
Once we read an account of a somewhat similar case of torpidity in
puppies. It was extracted from the Tyne Mercury. The puppies had
been immersed half an hour in water, and then buried in a dunghill;
they were all alive twenty-two hours after. But Dr. Franklin’s fly is
much more marvellous still. It had been soaked for twenty years in a
pipe of wine, and on being exposed to the rays of the sun it flapped its
wings and flew away without even evincing the symptoms of intoxication.
The Omnibus, a Neapolitan paper, contains an account of a diver in
Naples, called Lorenzo Giordano, a native of Fiumara, in Calabria, who
is able to remain six hours under the water in the deepest places, and to
walk at the bottom at the rate of a mile an hour. Mother Nature is
always playing some prank to make philosophers stare vacantly at each
other, more especially those sages who are so very dictatorial in telling
the world what is, and what is not contrary to Nature. If Mr. Hume’s
* Account of a man who submitted to be buried alive for a month at Jaisulmer, in the
East Indies, and who was dug out alive at the expiration of that period. Abridged from
the Indian Journal qf Medical and Physical Science, Calcutta, 1833,
philosophy be correct, if it be more probable that the witnesses are
mistaken in their testimony than that the fact is true, i.e., if it be
more probable that other men are liars than that Mr. Hume’s
experience is fallacious, then there is no truth in the report, and you
may have an opportunity of looking tolerably wise by merely curling
the lip, making a contemptuous sneer, giving a sagacious shake of the
head, and thus disposing of the matter. Many people get credit for
wisdom and shrewdness by this trick. As we are not ultra liberals,
however, we shall say a little more upon the subject. What we mean
to say, however, is a digression.
What becomes of the man himself all this while 1 Is he conscious
or unconscious ? Does he dream or not ? There’s the rub.
In the Monthly Review there is contained a review of a book by Dr.
Bendel, giving an account of a natural somnambulist, who often
remained in a fit, twenty, thirty, and even forty hours, and went
through all her domestic duties, read and sang, and saw in the dark,
and yet was fast asleep, and when she awoke, had no consciousness or
remembrance of what she had done ; she even learned to play at back¬
gammon in her sleep, beat a most experienced player, and knew nothing
of the game when awake. There is a similar account of another by
Dr. Dyce, in the Transactions of the Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh,
vol. 9 ; and there is a case recordedfof a girl in Stirling, who in this
state talked like a philosopher, explained the movements of the
heavenly bodies, in language and with a felicity of illustration of
which she was incapable when awake. We might adduce a hundred
different cases of merely natural somnambulists, who all present this
one invariable peculiarity—viz., that when they awake, they are utterly
unconscious of what they have done in sleep. They are therefore
called by medical men “ cases of double consciousness.” They seem to
have two natures; when asleep they remember all they have said and
done on former occasions in sleep, but when they are awake they
•remember nothing they have said or done in sleep.
Now here is proof positive that the whole world of experience and
medical science confesses to be literally correct; that the mind may be
busily engaged in thought, word, and deed for any given space of time,
then suddenly lose every vestige of remembrance of its sayings and
doings when its everyday sensibility returns. May not this have
been the case with the Hindoo l His own evidence is of no use. Jane
Rider, Dr. Bendel’s patient, wrote a letter to her mother when she was
asleep, yet in twenty-four hours after she might have taken her oath
conscientiously that she had not written the letter. It is very possible
that this miserable, shrivelled Hindoo, whilst bodily he was sitting
coiled up in a hole and tied in a sack, was mentally revelling in fairy
fields of vision, where neither the fear of white ants, nor the want of
money beclouded the sunshine of the vivid enchantment. When they
dug him up and rubbed his stomach, and forced his jaws open, and
poured some of the life of this world into his throat, the enchantment
ceased, and the memory vanished along with it.—The Shepherd,
The offices of the National Association of Spiritualists will be closed
during the greater part of the month of August.
Divorce Case.—On Thursday, last week, before Sir R. Phillimore,
the president of the Divorce Court, the case Holt v. Holt was heard.
This was the petition of the wife for a divorce by reason of the
cruelty and adultery of her husband, a coal agent. The adultery
charged was alleged to have been committed with Mrs. Oulson, a
spiritualistic medium. The parties were married so far back as 1846,
and they appeared to have lived happily together until the respondent
made the acquaintance of Mrs. Oulson, when, according to the
evidence of the wife, she exercised a great influence over the re¬
spondent. He afterwards separated from her, and previously had
been guilty of cruelty towards her. Both the respondent and Mrs.
Oulson denied the charge of adultery, and Mr. Holt stated that he had
never treated his wife cruelly. In the result, Sir R. Phillimore said
the charges had not been established, and dismissed the petition.—
Newcastle Daily Chronicle.
Fiction Outlived By Fact.—“ M.A., Oxon.,’’ in his preface to Psy-
chography, says:—“ That men of trained and practised intellect should
be willing to devote the assiduous labour of a long life to some minute
subject, in the hope of clearing up one minute phase of it, is, from one
point of view, a hopeful and encouraging fact; but it tends to engender
thoughts the reverse of cheerful, when we reflect that this very search
after truth in one of its minute phases is frequently allied to a scornful
contempt for that noblest study of humanity, man’s own nature, powers,
and destiny. The result, primarily, of ignorance, next of prejudice,
finally of disgust at oft-detected fraud, this attitude—this unworthy
attitude—can, I believe, better be combated by patient exposition of the
truth than by any proselytising, however vigorous and widespread, or
by any controversy, however skilfully conducted. A fact must finally
drop into its place; it matters not much, save to those who might profit
by!knowledge of it, whether now or in a succeeding age, when our
children will, it is to be hoped, be wiser than their fathers. It is with
this conviction that I have endeavoured to elucidate one among many of
the facts which testify to the existence of a soul in man, and to its
independent action beyond his physical body; an earnest of its survival
and independent life when released by death from its earthly prison-
house.”   
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS!
Prince Wittgenstein wishes to know who the gentleman is who wrote to
him from London, and forgot to put his name to his letter.
J., Ulverstone.—The paragraph being libellous, however true, you should
have sent us the journal containing the original unabridged statement.
L., Rochester, U.S.A.—This correspondent says that the absence of a strong
organisation among Spiritualists in America deprives those in the move¬
ment of power to adequately check imposture among sham mediums there,
so the latter have it all their own way, and their exposure by disbelievers
is frequent.
July 19, 1878,
THE SPIKITUALIST,
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s,
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism^ Neatly
bound, with giit edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,"
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „ .
The Reformer. „ IY. „ . •
The Thinker. .. Y. „ . . •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest . ...
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . •
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health , . . . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
16 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
7 6
6 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . '. ..60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legeiids relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . - . . . V . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind;; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , “ . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . ... . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Othee
Obseuvees in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed .
question of <i priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistio throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III ^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IY ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—^Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. HaU—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Variey, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter Xlll Unity of Forces and Phenomena,
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opimons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVl Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. - Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot he had separately. Price,
camagejpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.6.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works hearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses.:-*-
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Bums, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay,G. H. Adshead,W. P.Adshead, E. H.Valter, J.L.O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E'ioence of Hon.R.Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins);
III From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation ol
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. E. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar .,
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence'
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E,
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given throug ’
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Gxon) ”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stoliop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Biospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D .—Death. By Caroline A. Burka
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—.
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russo
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about" or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,'
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 19, 1878,
iv
A NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
T ORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
Por the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
IPO’S PRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIYING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probabiiity, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1S77.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
T?NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
-i' “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ENO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
I “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before.long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ITINO’S FRUIT SALT,
U AS A
GENERAL LiXATIVB AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, > and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise_.    
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
IT'NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
a products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequaUed; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the hody healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
-YT^ORTHY of NOTICE.—palpitation of
t V THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
crless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please —I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Bole Agent ror Pans—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PALS.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8.. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-iewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book .in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji's narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ’’ as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.,.. To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint'and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”.
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
. “ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. . . . If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides’ a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is £ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, ■ and a cast of Its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared i n the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \NJl. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to Hia Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s-. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeri c
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousneas—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards thd Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep,
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Gbjects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sjunpathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persona
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—^Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions In
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at W ill by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s JBxtatics—Visions of the S iiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—:Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment oi Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difiiculties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyie—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Scienc e
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to he Expected.
CHAPTER XII :—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking.State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerr-'m in the Sleep
—Sympathio Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
APTER XVI:—Cu
Remarks, and Summary.
urative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
