Registered as a Newspaper.
joif^KSi< of f)^Ydfioi<o^id®i< Hdis^Kd^.
©tat Itogppt OTm^tr toit| Spititnlism m ©reat ^ritam.
No. 371.—(Yol. XV.—No. 14.) LONDON: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Just Published.
AN ILLUSTRATED BROADSIDE ENTITLED
THE WOIHEES OE LAIPOET, ETC.,
By SIR CHARLES ISHAM, Bart.
Price Three Halfpence, Post Free; or Ten for One Shilling.
2,000 Copies sold in two days.
PROFITS FOR ORPHANAGE.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., .Lamport Hall, Northampton.
THE THE0S0PHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. B. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of * The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol. I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
IECHAIISI OE IAN.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Yol. II., completing the work, and treating of “The Mechanism in Action,*
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS.
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
JAMES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 3, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mb. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its brandhes. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
S P I R I T - I D E N T I T Y.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
•—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Divine and Human Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr. 'Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
W.O. (corner of new Ormond-street).
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Snnday),
Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
'The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
F. 0. MATTHEWS,
CLAIRVOYANT, TRANCE, TEST AND
HEALING MEDIUM,
35, CAVENDISH TERRACE, WEST HILL PARK,
HALIFAX, YORKSHIRE.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
XTOTKIE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
A.M NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
xnediumship, from one to five o’clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
THE FIEST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
fNHIARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl's-court, 8.W.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and tbe phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, Loudon, W.C,
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 88, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on 11 Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C,
eJAs
tif to xif to Stot^D^ a»d EtMDS ul Sp;ittitttaU$m»
No. 371,—YoiLUjVIE FIFTEEN; Nujvibefi fourteen,
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3rd, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869,
Poblished Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Eree Within the limits of tbe United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
83, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal, of Science.
0. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Dob. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. O.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal,Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Paris!, Via Della Maltonia, Florence;. Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago: 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rpHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
naccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN LONDON.
BY J. F. A. CATEAU VAN BOSEVELT,
■
i} | MEMBER OF THE PRIVY COUNCIL OF DUTCH GUIANA, KNIGHT OF
| j j THE ORDER OF THE NETHERLAND LION AND LEGION OF HONOUR.
•)! Circumstances Tbeyond my control have been the
j\j cause of delay in not sending you sooner my report
of the very interesting sitting I attended with Miss
! \ | Kate Cook, the medium, on the evening of Thursday,
kI the 11th September.
I wish to observe that I am not a novice in the
I. science called “Spiritualism,” and that I had pre-
|.; viously witnessed many manifestations with different
! mediums, so that I was fully prepared to take the
| j | necessary precautions in order that no mistake could
| > i happen, and that no doubt about the facts could' arise
ij!. afterwards.
The sitting took place at Mr. Cook’s residence at
j j Hackney, London. After a careful search of the
} two small rooms, I locked the doors and put the keys
m in my pocket. We (Mrs. Cook, the medium Miss
| /1 Kate Cook, her little sister Edith, and myself) placed
!)l ourselves round a small table, joined hands, and ex-
/ j tinguished the light. I had taken with me a solid
|)| iron ring from The Hague, which measured five
)] inches in diameter and three-eighths of an inch in
j jj thickness ; also a slate of 91 inches by 7b inches,
i) j with pencil, which I had bought the same day from a
\j stationer in Euston-road. Those objects, with two
j paper rings, were laid before me upon the table. ' My
( left hand had hold of the medium’s right hand, and
m my right joined Mrs. Cook’s left hand. Within about
j | three minutes after the light was put out we heard
;) raps on the table, in the beginning soft, then louder
! \ I and louder ; then a voice was heard whispering but
|/| clear, which I recognised as similar to the voice I
j\j heard during a sitting with Miss Kate in March
before, as described in the Spiritual Notes of May,
| 1879. I addressed the voice, which said it belonged
|/j to “ Lily Gordon.” She promised to do something
| | for me, also to write, which she said she had done for
j/j me before {Spiritual Notes of May). I heard the
hi paper rings rustling in the air ; the iron ring struck
J/j twenty times or more on the table, sometimes very
11 hardly, so that I was afraid that the slate would be
R! struck and broken ; but although there was perfect
nj darkness the slate was not once touched. Several
times the cold iron touched our hands lightly. I
i) | asked if the spirits were able to see us : my nose was
H at once caught by two fingers; then I felt a hand
j\j unbuttoning my coatr taking my watch out the waist-
j) l coat pocket, and holding it against my right ear. The
hi voice said, “ Observe, this is not on the medium’s
M side,” after which a hand opened mine and laid the
n| watch in it. The hand which held the watch upon
In my ear was warm. Several times I felt hands stroking
1(1 my face, head, and hands; now and then I was
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 3, 1879.
pinched on the hands and knee, and my hair and
coat were slightly pulled. At my request Lily
said that these rough manifestations were not per¬
formed by herself, but by lower spirits, of whom
many were present in the room; they followed
her, she said, to assist in her mission ; they
had to obey her orders, and were thus a kind of
servants to her. These spirits could not speak to us,
and were not able to materialise ; they could, how¬
ever, converse with her in their spirit language,
unheard by us. As soon as Lily had said that the
chair whereon I sat was moved with all my weight
on it; the table was lifted (Avhile our hands laid upon
it) about eighteen inches from the floor, and the
medium’s chair was pulled away from her and put
upon the table. Not for one moment I had let loose
the hand of the medium, but then I took down the
chair and returned it to Miss Cook. Then the ring
test which I had desired was performed ; light was
struck, and the iron rings and the two paper rings
were found on the medium’s right arm.
When the light was put out again, and we had joined
hands, I requested Lily to perform the ring test once
more, because the former was not done under so strict
a test as I desired. The voice promised to do it.
Immediately I felt the cold iron of the ring all
around on the knuckles and other parts of my left
hand, by which I had hold of the medium’s right
hand. When light was struck I found that it was
my own ring, which a moment before, as I am quite
certain of, laid upon the table"; the ring was placed
round our hands grasped in one another. After the
light was put out again this wonderful manifestation
was effected again twice : once to Edith, on the
medium’s left hand, and then to Mrs. Cook, who took
the place of Edith. About the paper rings, which I
had cut before out of a sheet of post paper, and laid
on the table, I requested that they should be linked
inside each ; the owner of the voice said that this was
a novelty, which she would try to perform afterwards,
as she was afraid that at present the paper would tear
up and be of no use. “ Mark them,” said she, ” and
leave them behind ; then you can easily identify them
afterwards when I have performed it.” I did so
accordingly.
Lily was fond of conversing, and she animated our
discourse several times when it became dull. She told
us that the other spirits who were present w^ere of a
lower order, and not able to speak to us. I asked
her about matter, and how spirits could pass matter
through matter as I had witnessed several times.
She said that when we get on the “ other side ” we
shall acquire the knowledge after some study. At
present, and from our standpoints of science, we
were not able to comprehend such manifestations.
About my departed relatives, she said that she did
not know them, and was therefore not able to bring
them at the very moment to me ; perhaps afterwards
it might be done. From the first moment the
voice recognised me, and called me by my right
name.
Lily told us that she would write, and then ma¬
terialise. So we struck a light, and I examined the
slate, which was cleaned by myself, and then laid on
the table—from which the tablecloth was removed—
with a crumb of a slate-pencil underneath. Miss
Kate, the medium, placed her hands flat upon the
slate, and the light was reduced. I sat on the
medium’s right ; it was a dim light, but we could see
each other and the slate clearly and distinctly. No
other voice than our own was heard, but the sound
of writing underneath the slate was clearly heard ; it
ended with three clicks, or raps, evidently done by a
slate-pencil underneath the slate. Neither the hands
of the medium nor the slate had moved; the slate
had laid entirely flat upon the table. Then I took it,
and found that on the underneath part which had
been turned to the table a message had been written,
viz. :—
My dear Mr. Hosevelt,—I am much pleased to see you
again. I hope you will be . satisfied by what I have shown to
you, and more and more you will be convinced of the truths of
Spiritualism. I hope to see you often here.—Your friend,
Lily Gordon.
I begged her to write something on the other side
of the slate too, which I might keep after being
covered by glass. Three raps underneath the slate
were the sign of consent, and soon after I heard the
writing begin anew. Again three raps as a sign that
it was finished, and to my great astonishment I
read on the underside of the slate the following
sentence :—
I hear you talking about the place where your dear friends
are as if it were a different world from yours. I wonld like you
to think that there is only one large world, part of which is seen
and part unseen.
The medium advised me now to write a question
on the slate, to, which the spirit perhaps would write
an answer, as Mr. Blackburn had often got through
her mediumship in his own library at Parkfield. So
I did it, and put a piece of paper on the slate, in
order that the writing on that side should not be
blotted out by the medium’s hands. Meanwhile
the sound of the street door bell was heard, and
somebody entered the house and went upstairs.
The ladies said they thought it was Mr. Harrison,
who they expected. Repeatedly two raps underneath
the slate were heard. I asked the spirit what was
the matter, and if we were not sitting right. She
replied by raps that such was not the case, but that
the paper on the slate should be removed. It seems
that it prevented the power from penetrating, because
as soon as I took away the paper, and the medium’s
hands rested on the slate itself, writing commenced.
Three raps were given, and I took the slate, upon
which had been written underneath—
I cannot read your writing. Let Mr. Diss come in, and sit
for materialisation.
We broke up, and after I had unlocked the door
we found that Mr. Diss had really come in a few
minutes before.
After a renewed search of both rooms in the light
I locked the door again, and we placed ourselves in a
half-circle round the door leading from the front
room to the back room, in which the medium sat in
an easy chair. The light in the back room was put
out, but in the front room merely lowered, so that we
could see each other and the objects in the room
distinctly. Two or three minutes might have elapsed,
when the same voice as in the dark circle was heard,
and a white form was seen standing near the medium.
The owner of the voice said she would come nearer
when she had grown stronger. Five or six minutes
more, and the form, which was that of a woman in
Oct. 3, 1879.
159
THE SPIRITUALIST.
white drapery, came nearer, until she stood in the j (|
door opening, only two feet from the place where I !) |
sat. The other persons, viz., Mrs. Cook, Edith, and I \ |
Mr. Hiss, were placed at a much greater distance from j j
that door. I rose from the chair, and, with the con- |v
sent of the form, which called itself “ Lily Gordon,” j)
I observed her features minutely, but saw no resem- j \
blance between Lily and her medium. Miss Kate is j j
lively, and has blue eyes; Lily looks grave, and her [(
eyes are rather large and dark. I touched her hands, j)
which were cold, and of a peculiar feeling. She said ! \
her hands would afterwards become warm, which
they really did. She had no rings on her fingers, and n
wore no earrings or other ornaments. Her drapery j)
was profuse and loose; it reached the ground in wide | (
folds, and was much like ordinary gauze. Her head
was covered with a white cloth, tightly tied round, so n
that no hair was visible. When she spoke her lips | (
moved like those of any other human being. I |j
asked her if she had teeth. “ Yes,” she said; “put ij
your finger into my mouth and feel them.” So I j>
did ; she gave me a slight bite on the finger, and I | (
felt her teeth distinctly. Her mouth was warm and j j
moist; she breathed only when speaking for pro- j(
ducing sound, otherwise she did not. I asked to be jj
permitted to feel her feet, which were not visible. i<
She told us that they were not materialised, but if I j>
desired she would perfect them later on. I did not j
afterwards insist upon that; I was so well satisfied j
that I would not put her to this additional trouble, j
We conversed with her as with an ordinary human i
being. She told us that when we have passed “ over i
the river called death,” our intellects will still grow jj
by study and exercise ; spirits have to study different jj
kinds of science; knowledge obtained here on earth j<
will afterwards be of great use to us, because j(
when we reach the other side it remains with us, j(
but will be refined. The “ departed,” or spirits, j1
live upon and round the world in spheres ; as a rule j,
they cannot see everything which is happening j1
upon earth; they cannot always go everywhere they j,
like: such powers depend on the height of the state j|
or grade of purity which they had reached. Some- h
times they were allowed to see their friends on earth, j j
She was very often with her medium, who attracted i <
her by her sensitiveness, and by whom she was able j j
to perform a part of her mission here; Not every !<
spirit is happy; it is their own fault when they are j j
unhappy, because they deserve it, but afterwards j'
they might become better. She felt very happy, jj
Sometimes she was amusing. Mr. Diss asked her
from where she collected the matter for her form jj
and drapery: the greatest part from her medium, some j <
from Mrs. Cook, Edith, and Mr. Rosevelt, “and a jj
very little from you, Mr. Diss,” she said.
I asked to see or feel the medium and the spirit j j
simultaneously, to which she consented. The spirit j1
went to her medium, and I followed her immediately, j j
when she disappeared entirely; not the slightest |j
trace of the form or her drapery could I see. The !
medium sat, or rather lay in the chair, and in a deep j1
trance. I felt her silken robe, her face and ears j
(wherein she had rings, as also on her fingers), i
Although I saw nothing of the spirit, I felt her hands j
several times ; once they slapped me slightly on the j
face, to show that although she was invisible she was i
still there. When I retook my seat Lily came again
immediately, from the side of her medium. I was
quite certain that the spirit-form was not the
medium, the more so when the former allowed
me more proofs by permitting me to feel her
teeth and ears. In the lower jaw she said I
would feel a vacancy, which she had made expressty,
and in the upper jaw all her teeth were regular,
which was not the case with her medium. Lily took
my hand and brought it to her mouth; I indeed felt
the absence of one or two teeth on the left side of
her under jaw, while the upper teeth were all quite
regular. “Feel my ears too,” said she, “but don’t
pinch them; you will perceive that I don’t wear
ornaments, even my ears are not pierced.” I found
everything correct which she asserted. A moment
before I had observed rings in the ears of the
medium. After the sea/tice I examined her teeth
and found them quite regular in the under jaw—not
one was missing; but in the upper set one tooth
was projecting. So it had been perfectly proved—
1st, that the form Lily, and Kate Cook, were two
different beings; and 2nd, that the former was a
spirit. I am quite certain that nobody else than the
medium was in the back room; moreover, the form
vanished twice before my eyes. I made a remark
about her hair ; she said she had not materialised it.
Then Mrs. Cook asked her to do it, and to show it
to us. She promised to do it, and went back to her
medium. After two minutes she returned with a
profusion of hair, hanging like a veil over her face.
She took my hand and brought it to her hair, which
was dry, darker in colour and also coarser in texture
than that of the medium, whose hair is particularly
soft and silky. Lily parted her hair with both her
hands and showed her face through it. I begged a
lock of her hair; she replied that it would be of no
use to me, because it would melt away, and leave
nothing I could retain. Then the spirit returned to
the medium, and shortly afterwards presented herself
without hair, and with the same headdress she wore
before.
Lily requested Mrs. Cook to give her the orna¬
ments which some time ago she entrusted to her
keeping. Mrs. Cook handed me two golden rings,
which I put in Lily’s hand, who placed them on her
fingers. I told her that considering she could not
wear the ornaments in the spirit world, she had
better return them to me to hand to Mrs. Cook.
She took the rings off, and I received them in my
right hand. “ Hold them fast,” she said, “ because I
will dissolve them.” I kept the rings firmly between
my fingers, but they became smaller and smaller, and
within half a minute they were entirely gone.
“ Here they are,” said the spirit, and showed me the
rings in her hand. I took them and handed them to
Mrs. Cook. Amazed as I was at this wonderful
exhibition of power over matter, I requested the
spirit, if she were able, to dissolve my watch also.
She replied that if I would trust her with the watch
and would run the risk, she would perform it.
Simultaneously she disappeared herself. “ I feel the
power of my medi um becoming weak and exhausted,
so I have to go now. Give me your watch, but
make a careful search with the light in the room,
and also search my medium, in order that you may
160 THE SPIKITUALIST. Oct. 3. 1879.
be quite convinced that the watch is not kept by
her and is entirely gone.” I laid my golden remon-
toir in her hand. “ Awake my medium,” she replied,
after which she retired. I followed her immediately,
but the whole form vanished away at the medium’s
side. Miss Kate was still in deep trance. I awoke
her; instantly full light was put on, and I found
her in full attire, just as she was before. The requested
search was made, and the watch found nowhere.
The dark circle was then formed, and hands joined;
through Lily’s voice we were told that the watch
had been brought back, and when a light was struck
it was found lying before me on the table ; no harm
had been done to it, and it kept time as before.
When the dark circle was formed again, I thanked
Lily for the grand things shown to us. “ I must go
now. Good-bye, good-bye,” and the manifestations
ceased.
It will scarcely be necessary to remark how much
I feel obliged to Miss Kate and her excellent mother,
Mrs. Cook. Indeed, I have not words enough to
express my gratitude to this respectable family, the
more so as this sitting, and the former one in March,
were given me without any self-interest, and only for
the sake of the grand truth of Spiritualism.
All I have read before of the experiences of Messrs.
Crookes, Wallace, Yarley, Cox, Zollner, and other
eminent and scientific men, I had now witnessed
myself, and I thanked the Almighty for the great
blessing of having it proved to me that there is an
existence for men beyond the grave, and that those we
once loved are not lost, but will be met by us again.
The Hague, Sept. 25th, 1879.
WAS IT AN APPAKITION?
A correspondent of Blackwood'’s Magazine, 1840,
gives the following copy of a letter addressed to the
Luke of C ; it was given to one of his family by
the brother, who calls it his late brother B ’s
letter. It runs thus : *£ The Hawk being on her
passage from the Cape of Good Hope towards the
island of Java, and myself having the charge of the
middle watch, between one and two in the morning I
was taken suddenly ill, which obliged me to send for
the officer next in turn; I then went down on the
gun-deck, and sent my boy for a light. In the mean¬
while, I sat down on a chest in the steerage under
the after-grating, when I felt a gentle squeeze by a
very cold hand; I started, and saw a figure in white ;
stepping back, I said, ‘God’s my life, who is that V
It stood and gazed at me a short time, stooped its
head to get a more perfect view, sighed aloud, re¬
peated the exclamation ‘ Oh! ’ three times, and
instantly vanished. The night was fine, though the
moon afforded through the gratings but a weak light,
so that little of feature could be seen ; only a figure
rather tall than otherwise, and white-clad. My boy
returning now with a light, I sent him to the cabins
of all the officers, when he brought me word that not
one of them had been stirring. Coming afterwards
to St. Helena, homeward bound, hearing of my
sister’s death, and finding the time so nearly coin¬
ciding, it added much to my painful concern, and I
have only to thank God that when I saw what I now
believe to have been her apparition (my sister Ann),
I did not then know the melancholy occasion of it,”
THE REMARKABLE CURE OF HENRY SLADE.
j:)j (To the Editor of the “ Eeligio-Philosophical Journal?)
Many of your readers already know of my mis-
| j fortune in having a stroke of paralysis. Now a
ill complete cure has been made, it may be interesting
j)j to your readers to know something about it. In
| \ | Miss Slade’s letter to you, she spoke of the predic-
| /1 tion the spirits had made that I was to be cured on
m the 15th.
This stroke of paralysis came upon me over four
| (| months ago, soon after my leaving Sydney. On my
|| arrival at San Francisco, Dr. M'Lennan called at my
; \ i hotel and gave me treatment; in less than fifteen
I minutes I was able to walk with the use of my cane.
| (j Before this treatment I could not lift my limbs from
j) the ground, unless through the instrumentality of
( my hand. My right arm was also powerless, and I
|j| was made to use it a little, but not able to write
j (| with it. He gave me treatment every day for over
j)j a month, but I got no better.; Many of the best
| \) doctors said that I never would have the full use of
f! my leg and arm again. I began to think so myself;
m also Dr. M'Lennan. About the first of August the
| /1 spirits told me that I would get well, but to accom-
1 ] plish the result two treatments more would be
|)| required, and they said that I must follow their
HI directions (I promised to do so), and have one
|(| treatment on August 10th and one on the 15th. I
\\\ was thinking of calling on Dr. M'Lennan to tell
|) | him what had been said to me, but before I got
j\j ready to do so, he came to my rooms, and said that
i j he felt impressed to come and see me. Then I told
m him of the prediction. He did not seem to have
)] the faintest faith in what I said. However he came
| \ | and gave me a treatment on the tenth, and from that
m time my limb began to swell and pain me. He
( came again to my room on the evening of the
| (| fifteenth, and met many friends there to witness the
j) | cure. He worked over my limb about fifteen minutes,
| (| and then I got up and walked as well as I ever did
| >j in my life. I also took up my pen and could write,
\( I and it was the first I had written with that hand
| (I during my paralytic stroke. I am writing this with the
|)| hand that was powerless at that time. Before Dr.
||| M'Lennan gave me the last two treatments, a
I (! doctor called to see me and measured my right limb,
|y| and it was one inch and a half smaller than my left
u j one. He said it could not be cured—he was quite
|>| sure. After the treatment he called again, and to
jyj his surprise he found my right limb was the same
j)j in measurement as that of my left.
I have given you a brief statement of the case,
|; | hoping that others may be cured by the same power and
It treatment. I rejoice over this most wonderful cure,
j)| for now I am able to continue the work I have been
k I so devoted to all my life. Now I feel that I owe
jVl more to the spirits than ever before, and in my
| (i efforts in the future, I will prove what I say at the
|j| present  HENRY SLADE.
I (i San Francisco, Cal., Aug. 16th.
[) Messrs. Coates, Morse, Harper, and Porter will occupy the
j) platform of the Glasgow Association of Spiritualists during the
uj month of October. A Conference will be held on October 26th,
j\i at 11.30 a.m., when it is expected that many Spiritualists from
Iji the surrounding country will attend. Subjects: “The Culti-
Ij vation of Mediumship,” “The Best Means of Reaching the
Masses,” and “Spiritual Gifts.”
Oct. S, 1879 THE SPIRIT CJALIST. 161
APPARITIONS SEEN AT PORTNEPOWN BRIDGE
AFTER THE IRISH MASSACRE.
BEING COPIES OF THE EVIDENCE PRODUCED BY SIR JOHN
TEMPLE.
1. James Shaw, of Market Hill, in the county of
Armagh, innkeeper, deposeth, that many of the Irish
rebels, in the time of this deponent’s restraint, and
staying among them, told him very often, and it was
a common report, that all those who lived about the
bridge of Portnedown were so affrighted with the
cries and noise made there of some spirits or visions
for revenge, as that they durst not stay, but fled
away thence, so as they protested, affrighted to
Market Hill, saying, they durst not return thither
for fear of those cries and spirits, but took grounds
and made (creaghs) in or near the parish of Mulabrac.
Jurat, August 14, 1642.
2. Joan, the relict of Gabriel Constable, late of
Durmant, in the county of Armagh, gent., deposeth
and saith that she often heard the rebels, Owen
O’Farren, Patrick ,0’Connellan, and divers others of
the rebels at Durmant, earnestly say, protest, and tell
one another that the blood of some of those that
were knocked on the head and afterwards drowned
at Portnedown bridge still remained on the bridge,
and would not be washed away; and that often there
appeared visions or apparitions, sometimes of men,
sometimes of women, breast-high above the water,
at or near Portnedown, which did most extremely
and fearfully screech and cry out for vengeance
against the Irish that had murdered their bodies
there; and that their cries and screeches did so
terrify the Irish thereabouts, that none durst stay
or live longer there, but fled and removed farther
into the country, and this was common report
amongst the rebels there; and that it passed for a
truth amongst them, for any thing she could ever
observe to the contrary.
Jurat, January 1, 1643.
3. Katherine, the relict of William Coke, late of
the county of Armagh, carpenter, sworn and examined,
saith that, about the twentieth of December, 1641, a
great number of rebels, in that county, did most
barbarously drown at that time one hundred and eighty
Protestants, men, women, and children, in that river,
at the bridge of Portnedown; and that, about nine
days afterwards, she saw a vision or spirit, in the
shape of a man, as she apprehended, that appeared
in that river, in the place of the drowning, bolt up¬
right, heart high, with hands lifted up, and stood in
that place there, until the latter end of Lent next
following; about which time some of the English
army, marching in those parts, whereof her husband
was one (as he and they confidently affirmed to the
deponent), saw that spirit or vision standing upright
in the posture aforementioned ; but, after that time,
the said spirit or vision vanished, and appeared no
more that she knoweth. And she heard, but saw not,
that there were other visions and apparitions, and
much screeching and strange noises heard in that
river at times afterwards.
Jurat, February 24,1643.
4. Elizabeth, the wife of Captain Rice Price, of
Armagh, deposeth and saith that she and other
women, whose husbands were murderers, hearing of
divers apparitions and visions that were seen near
< i Portnedown bridge, since the drowning of her children
and the rest of the Protestants there, went unto the
< aforesaid bridge about twilight in the evening; then
|| there appeared unto them, upon a sudden, a vision or
p spirit, assuming the shape of a woman, waist high,
}j upright in the water, naked, with elevated and closed
(i hands, her hair hanging down very white, her eyes
H* seemed to twinkle, and her skin as white as snow ;
H which spirit seemed' to stand straight up in the
;j water, and often repeated the words “Revenge,
<1 revenge, revenge!” whereat this deponent and the
;)| rest, being put into a strong amazement, and
<j affrighted, walked from the place.
!y| Jurat, January 29, 1642.
5. Arthur Azlum, of Clowargher, in the county of
Cavan, esquire, deposeth that he was credibly in-
(| formed by some that were present there that there were
>| thirty women and young children, and seven men
< I flung into the river of Belturbet; and, when some of
I'! them offered to swim for their lives, they were by the
y rebels followed in carts, and knocked upon the head
)j with poles. The same day they hanged two women
(| at Turbet; and this deponent doth verily believe that
)| Rutmore O’Reby, the then sheriff, had a hand in
(I commanding the murder of those said persons; for
) | that he saw him write two notes, which he sent to
< | Turbet by Bryan O’Reby, upon whose coming their
)j murders were committed; and those persons who
\ | were present also affirmed that the bodies of those
)l thirty persons drowned did not appear upon the
yj water till about six weeks past; as the said Reby
)j came to the town, all the bodies came floating up to
|| the very bridge; and those persons were all formerly
; I stayed in the town by his protection, when the rest of
(| their neighbours in town went away. *
j NORWOOD.
)| In the Magna Britannia, the author, in his “ Ac-
j count of the Hundred of Croydon,” says : “Our
)i historians take notice of two things in this parish,
<| which may not be convenient to us to omit;—viz., a
)| great wood called Norwood, belonging to the arch-
( bishops, wherein was anciently a tree, called the
• | Vicar’s Oak, where four parishes met, as it were in a
1 point. It is said to have consisted wholly of oaks,
| and among them was one that bore mistletoe, which
| some persons were so hardy as to cut for the gain of
| selling it to the apothecaries of London, leaving a
| branch of it to sprout out; but they proved unfortu-
| nate after it, for one of them fell lame, and others lost
! an eye. At length, in the year 1678, a certain man,
| notwithstanding he was warned against it, upon the
! account of what the others had suffered, adventured
| to cut the tree down, and he soon after broke his leg.
| To fell oaks hath long been counted fatal, and such
as believe it produce the instance of the Earl of
| Winchilsea, who, having felled a curious grove of
| oaks, soon after found his countess dead in her bed
| suddenly, and his eldest son, the Lord Maidstone,
I was killed at sea by a cannon ball.”
ij| Mrs. Louie M. Lowe, the medium, is in Paris, with Mr.
!) I Lowe. They expect to remain there for some weeks.
i(i * History of the Irish Rebellion, by Sir John Temple, p. 123.
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 3, L879.
MEMORY AND FORGETFULNESS.,
BY HENEY G. ATKINSON, E.G.S. jj
It seems to me that genius, without reference to j <
the muses, or even to God or spirits, means what |
may be called “ inspiration,” as from an inner power j)
or other self; hence so many poets and original j)
thinkers forget the thoughts that have come up j(
unbidden into the sphere of consciousness, unless ||
they at once fix them or write them down. I have !(
given the instance of my late friend, Barry Cornwall; If
Goethe was another remarkable instance; and that j (
Scott should have dictated the whole of the Bride of j)
Lammermoor, and forgotten all about it, was most j\
astonishing, with his extraordinary memory. We l)
may instance dreams and the mesmerised somnam- b
bulists when awake forgetting all they have said and jj
done in the “ sleep/’ as though there were a double \)
self, as in the spontaneous instances of double con- j)
sciousness. The whole subject is of deep psycho- (
logical interest.
Miss Martineau possessed a remarkable power of K
memory, and yet in her Autobiography (vol. ii. j)
p. 80) she relates the case of hearing a sermon in is
America, with the text from the parable of “The j)
Wandering Child,” and could not imagine where it
could be taken from ; but some time after, taking
up a number of the Monthly Repository, there she
found it with her own name to it, and on which she
adds : “ The readers of Dr. Priestly’s Life will not
pronounce on me (as I was at first disposed to pro¬
nounce on myself) that I was losing my wits. Dr.
Priestly tells how he once found in a friend’s library
a pamphlet on some controverted topic, which
he brought to his friend with praise, as the best
thing he had seen on the subject. He wanted
to know — the title-page being torn off—who
wrote it. His friend stared, as my Charleston
host did, and Dr. Priestly began to fear that he was
losing his faculties; but he remembered (and this
was my plea after him) that what we give out from
our own minds, in speech or in writing, is not a
subject of memory, like what we take in from other
minds, and that there are few who can pretend to
remember what they have said in letters after a few
years. There was the fact, in short, that we had com¬
pletely forgotten compositions of our own, and that
we were not losing our faculties.”
Here is the parable in question, which went through
such curious adventures, and which is very pretty,
and may show the necessity of knowledge and
experience; but at that early period when the
parable was written, Harriet Martineau was deeply
religious.
“the wandering child.
“In a solitary place among the groves, a child
wandered whithersoever he would. He believed
himself alone, and wist not that one watched him
from the thicket, and that the eye of his parent was
on him continually; neither did he mark whose
hand had opened a way for him thus far. All things
that he saw were new to him ; therefore, he feared
nothing. He cast himself down in the long grass,
and as he lay he sang till his voice of joy rang
through the woods. When he nestled among the
flowers, a serpent arose from the midst of them ; and
when the child saw how its burnished coat glittered
in the sun like a rainbow, he stretched forth his hand
to take it to his bosom. Then the voice of his parent
cried from the thicket ‘ Beware f and the child
sprang up and gazed above and around, to know
whence the voice came; but when he saw it not, he
presently remembered it no more.
“ He watched how a butterfly burst from its shell,
and flitted faster than he could pursue, and soon rose
far above his reach.
“When his gaze could trace its flight no more,
his father put forth his hand and pointed where the
butterfly ascended, even into the clouds.
“ But the# child saw not the sign.
U A fountain gushed forth amidst the shadows of
the trees, and its waters flowed into a deep and quiet
pool. The child kneeled on the brink, and looking
in he saw his own bright face, and it smiled upon
him.
“As he stooped yet nearer to meet it, the voice
once more said, | Beware ! ’
“ The child started back; but he saw that a gust
had ruffled the waters, and he said within himself,
* It was but the voice of the breeze ' ’
“ And when the broken sunbeams glanced on the
moving waves he laughed, and dipped his foot that
the waters might again be ruffled ; and the coolness
was pleasant to him. The voice was now louder, but
he regarded it not, as the winds bore it away.
“At length he saw something glittering in the
depths of the pool; and he plunged in to reach it.
As he sank, he cried aloud for help. Ere the waters
had closed over him, his father’s hand was stretched
out to save him.
“And while he yet shivered with chillness and
fear, his parent said unto him, ‘Mine eye was upon
thee and thou didst not heed; neither hast thou
beheld my sign, nor hearkened to my voice. If thou
hadst thought on me, I had not been hidden.’ Then
the child cast himself on his father’s bosom, and said,
‘ Be nigh unto me still; and mine eyes shall wait on
thee, and my ears shall be open unto thy voice for
evermore.’ ”
No doubt when this was written, it was intended
to illustrate man’s security in faith ; but doubtless in
after-life Miss Martineau would refer to it as ex¬
hibiting the necessity of knowledge and experience.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
WASSAILING THE ORCHARDS.
Brand relates that in Devonshire, “ on the eve of
the Epiphany, the farmer, attended by his workmen,
with a large pitcher of cider, goes to the orchard, and
there, encircling one of the best-bearing trees, they
drink the following toast, three several times :—
* Here’s to thee, old apple tree.
Whence thou mayst bud, aud whence thou mayst blow.
And whence thou mayst bear apples enow!
Hats full! caps full!
Bushel—bushel—sacks full!
And my pockets full too ! Huzza!’
This done, they return to the house, the doors of
which they are sure to find bolted by the females,
who, be the weather what it may, are inexorable
11 to all entreaties to open them till some one has
| i guessed at what is on the. spit, which is generally
d t gome nice little thing, difficult to be hit on, and is
Oct. 3, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
16‘
the reward of him who first names it. The doors are
then thrown open, and the lucky elodpole receives
the tit-bit as his recompense. Some are so super¬
stitious as to believe that, if they neglect this custom,
the trees will bear no apples that year. They have
a very similar custom in Devonshire, on the Eve of
Twelfth-day.” In allusion to a similar ceremony,
called “ Fowling the apples,” practised in Sussex and
Essex on New Year’s Eve, Herrick, in his Hesperides,
says—
“ Wassail the trees, that they may bear
You many a plum, and many a pear;
Tor more or less fruits they will bring.
As you do give them wassailing.”
DR. MONCK. S
BY BAEON DIRCKINCK-HOLMFELD. i(j
I wish to draw attention to the sad position of Dr. hi
Francis W. Monck, who has been suffering from \l\
prostration since the autumn of 1877. As far as my M
experience goes, Dr. Monck is a medium of un- >[
rivalled power, who has offered his eminent services n
to the cause of Spiritualism and to private inquirers Kj
voluntarily, without ever asking for any remunera- m
tion ; also that he bore the penalty of stupid perse- m
cution with a martyr-like resignation. I had left m
London in 1877 before the wonderful materialisations v
through his mediumship took place, which shed so j?j
bright a light on the mode of operation of the un- j\j
earthly beings when manifesting themselves in an m
earthly way ; so I missed the opportunity of witness- j\j
ing them. j /1
The too frequent repetition of these exhausting \
stances in the daylight four times a week ended in 1)1
that prostration from which the kind care of Mr. j\j
Cranstoun, who sedulously had assisted in nearly j)j
thirty of those interesting stances, tried to relieve m
him by receiving him as his guest in his Villa Meggen, i) I
near Lucerne. ,y
After a long repose. Dr. Monck was advised to try j) j
the climate of Naples, where the well-known Spirit- V
ualist, Signor Damiani, offered him a hospitality j)|
rather unusual in Italy. Thence Dr. Monck, as far \ j
as I know, in November, 1878, returned to Lucerne, l/j
accompanied and cared for by his friend, Mr. Cran- jyj
stoun, whose benevolence in acting like a tutelary j)j
genius ought to be gratefully remembered by all |yl
Spiritualists. ;)j
Joining in the hope of his recovery, I expected a m
visit from Dr. Monck in Pinneberg, and wished to ■ )j
make him acquainted with Professor Zollner in iyj
Leipzig, and with other friends of the cause ; but it m
appears that he is still in need of a milder climate lyj
than Switzerland, England, or Holstein can afford )|
him. . y!
Having sacrificed his life and means of living to |)|
the noble cause which opens the communication with ||
the spiritual world, the needful position of the suffer- j )j
ing martyr ought deliberately to be considered by all yj
persons concerned in Spiritualism, and I join in the )j
task of doing so by applying to you, who are able, yj
more than anybody else, to put the case before the i)j
English public. Please add your strength to my lyj
feeble words, and I feel sure of the desired result,
Pinneberg, Holsteiti. r,T. - iv'd
MR. ALFRED’S* FIRST HOME SEANCE.—A TEST
SEANCE.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
We have grown more or less indifferent to the new
marvels of spirit power, so abundantly displayed of
late in several quarters, but some features of the
seance yesterday, at 26, Southampton-row, deserve
special notice—firstly, because of the extraordinary
test conditions ; and, secondly, because of an instruc¬
tive lesson on cross-influences, clashing with the
arrangements of the leading spirit agency. Although
nobody in the assembled company desired any par¬
ticular test precaution, Mr. A. F.—whose most sincere
earnestness to impress us with the reality of the
occult force admitted of no counter argument—put
himself in a sack, which we tied round the neck, and
the ends of the cord were soundly secured to the upper
rail of a chair ; moreover, two pieces of tape were
knotted tightly to his wrists, and the ends, after
being led through very small holes in the sack behind
his back, were tied to the lower rail. He was placed
in the centre of the circle, and no table was required.
After putting out the light a guitar was played, a
bell rung, hands touched the sitters in turn, and
something was flung at me and the lady sitting near
me. When the light was struck the thrown object
proved to be the coat of the medium, who had to be
released by cutting the cords with a knife. We found
everything exactly as at first, except that the medium
was minus his coat.
Many sack tricks have been performed, but this
may wait some time to find an imitation.
When, in the second part, a spirit tried to come
out, a gentleman in the circle, under process of
development, fell on the floor in violent convulsions,
and the spirit-guide of our medium, by the direct
voice, declared that this cross-influence upset his
arrangements and stopped further progress. As a
demonstration of a force the seance was a truly grand
one, and investigators may congratulate themselves
on having such a splendid medium in their midst.
Mornington-road, London, N.W.
Mesmerism in Glasgow.—Mr. James Coates, the phrenolo¬
gist and mesmerist, has just cob eluded a series of lectures and
entertainments at the Grand National Halls, Glasgow. Over
nine thousand persons attended the course. The fact that Mr,
Coates is a Spiritualist and publicly advocates the cause in no
way interferes with his popularity. The Western Gazette of
Sept. 27th, 1879, says:—“Professor Coates, the well-known
mesmerist and phrenologist, has been giving entertainments in
the Grand National Halls, Gorbals, during this week, to large
audiences. The power exercised by the Professor over the minds
of his subjects is really marvellous, and shows that he has studied
deeply the mysteries of his profession. After an interesting and
instructive address, Mr. Coates psychologises a number of
persons, who, being drawn at random from, the audience, repre¬
sent a wide and varied range of intellect and character. One.of
the most instructive feats of this champion biologist is his per¬
formance with a strong, full-bearded, rough-looking fellow,
whom, while under the influence of mesmeric sleep, he caused to
lose his identity and play the part of excellent womanhood, and
to assume the mild and winning ways peculiar to young ladies of
sweet eighteen. The Professor never misses, an available oppor¬
tunity of imparting to his auditory instruction in the scientific
phases of mesmeric phenomena, such as catalepsy, mind-reading,
and phreno-mesmerism.”
* The annoyances to near relatives caused by prejudiced and
hostile people, induces the medium to withdraw for a time from
publishing his full name.—0. R,
164
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct, 3, 1879.
HOLYWELL AND ITS PILGRIMS.
A little Roman Catholic book about St. Wine- I)
fride’s Well (Burns and Oates) contains the following ||
certificated list of cures :— j >
Mrs. O’Connor, residing at 24, Brompton-square, j>
London, had been afflicted since the age of three k
years with a swelled leg, rendering her lame, and j
causing violent pains, and no medical skill could j<
relieve her. She visited Holywell in August, 18f>7, |j
being then a middle-aged woman, and in her third !
bath found herself perfectly cured, and up to this j)
day has never had any return of her former j \
affliction.
Mrs. Searle had been ill for fourteen years, and |
as the nature of her complaint prevented her from n
keeping any food on her stomach, it was wonderful j
how she could live. In her third bath she also was I)
perfectly cured.
Mr. Joseph Robinson, of Dudley, suffered from j
paralysis, caused by sciatica, and affecting his spine | (
and limbs ; he could only move with the aid of j)
crutches, and could not put one leg before the other, j l
and his right side and leg were twisted. He went n
to the Well, September 8th, 1851, and was placed in <
it by others, being unable to help himself, and at his |
first bath was completely cured.
Jane Mackey had suffered from an internal com- j;
plaint, which caused her great agony, and prevented \\
her from standing upright. She stated that she had j)
been under several doctors, who gave her no hope of j
recovery. She came to Holywell with great faith, i)
having had a devotion to St. Winefride all her life. i\
She too received her cure at her first bath.
A girl named Gavanna had a withered arm, which j)
she could not use, and the doctors said there was no j)
cure. In her first bath, the perfect use of her arm j
was restored to her.
Mrs. Margaret Thompton states that she was j(
afflicted with an internal complaint, and by bathing j /
at Holywell was cured. Her cure was wrought j
more gradually than the others. She adds, also, that |
her medical .man, seeing her afterwards, said a |\
miracle had been wrought upon her.
John Fitzgerald, a labouring man, had met with n
an accident, and put his heel out of place ; unable to j
find a cure in the Liverpool Infirmary, he came on j
crutches to Holywell, July 6th, 1859, and after his first )
bath threw away his crutches and walked without them. I \
Margaret Boulan had been blind of her right eye
for sixteen years; bathed in St. Winefride’s Well, (
knelt on St. Beuno’s Stone, praying earnestly, and /
when she raised her head found her sight restored.
Here we may stop ; it would be considered tedious \
to record many other cures, for the memory of almost (
every inhabitant of Holywell could furnish some. {
One is like another, even as there is a strange and
sad similarity in the afflictions and burdens of man¬
kind. There is, however, one remarkable case of a )
spiritual benefit conferred by the saint. <
Agnes Clark had been afflicted from her birth >
with an. ulcerous disease, and after all the remedies j <
had been exhausted in vain, she was told it was in- !)
curable, and that her life could not be long; the
greatest horror and fear of death seized upon the
poor child. A kind friend gave her poor mother the j
means to take the child to Holywell as a last hope. HI
Agnes bathed in the Well; she did not recover her
health, but she came out with all her terror of death
over, and longing to die, for she who had twice
crossed the valley of the shadow of death had hushed
her alarm.
There are also a number of cases of persons unable
to come to Holywell having been cured of various
diseases by drinking the water brought from the
Well, or by using the moss, which is tinctured with
red, and has a most fragrant scent. But a more
convincing proof than reading cases of miracles or
cures will be found in visiting the spot and seeing
with our own eyes the daily wonders there wrought;
to see some coming to pray for health, and others to
thank for health restored. It is not an unfrequent
custom for persons to come to return thanks for the
mercy shown to them, especially those cured- at a
distance, and who have a longing desire to see the
spot where their holy patroness shed her blood and
won her crown.
In this cold land of unbelief, where the great
object appears to be to shut out all knowledge of
the unseen world, and men talk, as was once truly
said, of the saints hearing us, as if they had human
ears, and as if they had earth-bound senses, and
were shut in by our misty horizon, it is good to
pay a visit to the shrine of St. Winefride. Perhaps
on the walk up from the railway station, we may
turn a little out of our way to visit the ruins of
Basingwerk Abbey, and mark with regretful eye the
strongly-built walls of that once grand monastery;
and as we do so, our thoughts are naturally sent
back into the past, the “ ages of faith,” and we sigh
as we remember the contrast of our own times. And
as we walk on musing over these things, sights and
sounds around keep pace with us ; for we see huge
factories built by the side of St. Winefride’s stream,
and their tall chimneys remind us well that we live
in the days of work and progress, and invention and
bustle; and so going onward, with a sudden surprise
we come upon the Well at the foot of the town. We
enter in; and if it happens to be the early morning
we may believe for a short space that after all we
are mistaken, and still we are in those olden times of
which we dreamed. The sunlight is falling through
the clustering arches, and sparkling on the crystal
water; we see the crimson stain upon the stones; and
as we look up into the carved roof, we see crutches
and stretchers which bear silent witness to miracles
wrought. We are not alone ; some are bathing, and
some praying. O, strange sight for our days!
these are “ pilgrims telling their beads ” in the early
morning light. They have come long miles for this,
braved many toils, undergone many hardships, and
all is counted little, so that they may pray a while at
Holywell; and there is St. Beuno’s stone, of which
we heard in St. Winefride’s life. And yet we are in
England.
Until the last few years the state of the Well
was a disgrace to the town of Holywell, and Catholic
pilgrims were exposed to many annoyances when pro¬
ceeding to the object of their journey; while it was
sad to see the beautiful building so neglected. Owing
to the spirited exertions of Father di Pietro, S.J.,
| the parish priest, the Well in 1873 was rented by
i him from the Local Board for three years, at a rent
165
Oct. 3, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
of £162 per annum. It is under the charge of
Catholics, and now the pilgrim can both pray and
bathe in peace.
The number of pilgrims to Holywell amounts to
thousands.
CADER IDRIS.
BY CATHERINE WOODFORDE.
Purple mountain in the distance,
With cloud-shadows mantled high,
And thy peak in golden glory.
Crown’d with light against the sky;
Little heed’st thou brawling torrents
Raging round thy firm-set feet,
Looking upwards calm, impassive,
Heaven steadfastly to greet.
Storms assail thee with wild fury,
Hurling lightnings at thy head;
Mutt’ring thunders threat’ning hoarsely
Whilst the fiery bolts are sped.
Fiercely batter’d by cold hailstones,
Beaten by the blinding snows.
Lash’d by blasts, whose mournful moanings
Rend the heart with painful throes.
Still thou standest, firm, unshaken,
In a grand, majestic peace,
Till the storms have spent their fury,
And the raging whirlwinds cease;
Then night’s darkness all unlighted
By a single gleaming star,
Wraps thee in thy lonely grandeur—
Wraps thee from all gaze afar.
After storm outbreaks the sunshine,
After night the happy day,
With the gentle zephyrs rippling
Thro’ the bracken in their way;
All the heather-bells soft rattling,
Which in frolic fun they’ve kiss’d;
Whilst fair mom, with fairy fingers,
Clothes thee in a milky mist.
Lifts the sun his glowing greatness,
Darting at thee long,'bright beams ;
Soon an opalescent splendour
Through thy misty garment gleams:
Creamy crimsons, vapoury violets,
Tender blues, and cloudy greys,
Fold thee in a magic beauty
Heighten’d by the hovering haze.
Brawl thy torrents now less fiercely
O’er the boulders in their way,
And their cascades, catching rainbows,
Gaily in the sunlight play.
Fern-fann’d browse the gentle cattle,
On thy moss-grown, heathery slopes.
And the squirrel in the fir-copse
Leaps uncheck’d where owlet mopes.
Stand thus ever, Cader Idris,
Pointing up to heaven high,
Symbol of that Faith rock-founded
Through the ages slipping by;
Taking sunshine and storm-shadows
On thy high, untroubled face,
As though holy, wise, far-seeing,
Kept thee faithful in thy place,
Dolgelly, September, 1879.
(
(
/
<
\
<
K
m
)
<
——
CLAIRVOYANCE.
Sir,—I enclose you an advertisement taken from the Liverpool
Mercury. The mysterious disappearance of the young lady is
occasioning a great amount of anxiety in Liverpool, and especially
to her immediate friends. If the pretensions of the clairvoyants
(many of whom must be in the ranks of Spiritualists) are of any
value and validity whatever, here is an opportunity presented for
a most benevolent exercise of their powers:—
“ One hundred pounds reward is offered for such information
as shall lead to the recovery of a young lady who was last seen
in London-road, near the Monument, on Wednesday afternoon.
Sept. 3. She is between 18 and 19 years of age, slim built, and
about 5 feet 2 or 3 inches in height; fair complexion, brown eyes,
and light brown air. She was dressed in a black print ‘ fishwife ’
dress of chequered pattern, with white spots; black cashmere
loose jacket, with black silk fringe trimming; white straw small
Dolly Yarden hat, trimmed with black satin and a wreath of ivy
leaves. She wore a silver necklet, with large oval silver-chased
locket and engraved monogram ‘E.M.E.,’ and a lady’s plain
gold ring, set with two diamonds and three rubies. The young
lady is subject to fainting fits.—Address E. H. Edwards, 35,
Rufford-road, Fairfield, Liverpool.”
John Priest.
19, Wordsworth-road, Liverpool, Sept. 28,1879.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN HACKNEY.
Sir,—At our seance last Tuesday evening, seven persons
present, we sat according to spirit direction for materialisation.
A curtain over five feet high across the room separated the
sitters from the medium, who was bound in a chair. The light
was sufficient to see each other well. After singing a tew
minutes, a column of luminous gauze floated above the curtain;
it appeared to me to be red-hot drapery. Then a well-defined
head and face appeared a number of times, surmounted by a snowy
white turban, only a few feet from the sitters. A powerful,
direct voice came from the face, which fact was evident to all.
I should like to chronicle these facts, as they may be useful in the
future. The medium has been fourteen months developing
before obtaining this manifestation. The usual phvsical phe¬
nomena took place.—Faithfully yours, C. R. "Williams.
6, Field View-terrace, London-fLelds, E.,
Sept. 28th, 1879.  
DR. SLADE.
Sir,—In reply to your correspondent, I beg to say that I but
repeated what had been previously said to me, namely, “ That
Spiritualism had been disgraced by an American medium.” I
did not mention Dr. Slade or any one else. I found Spiritualism
when I came to London under a heavy cloud, not wholly due to
the conduct of American mediums either I fear, and my honest
effort has been to gain for the subject a fair and impartial hearing,
in which I have succeeded far beyond my expectations,
S. W. Fletcher.
22, Gordon-street, W.C.  
“the corner stone.”
Sir,—At the close of my last communication, I promised to
deal with a subject of which the infinite wideness alone prevents
it being treated, satisfactorily within any moderate space, but if
lovingly worked out, the labour of fifty years devoted to it would
be well bestowed. Hence, when I come to write of the historical
influence of Christianity, you must not be surprised if I do no more
than refer you to undoubtedly authentic manifestations at present
little studied. Madame de Steiger has told us what she means
by Christianity. “ Ordinary Christianity, as taught by the
Churches, Roman, Greek, or Protestant, since the death of
Christ,” is a rather vague definition however. Taught when and
how ? In the deeply earnest, dazzling, and entirely captivating
way of thirteenth century chivalry!; in the devotional but intensely
practical way of St. Francis and Savonarola; in the ferocious and
rather warm way of the Inquisition and the Genevan theocracy; or
in the enthusiastic and modern American way of Messrs. Moody
and Sankey, and “ the Bounding Brethren.’’
For me Christianity means the religion taught by Jesus Christ,
and recorded for us with quite sufficient accuracy of statement in
the pages of the New Testament. That this same religion should
have appeared in different ages under the most surprisingly various
modification? of form, is the necessary result of physical, moral,
166
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 3, 1879.
and social evolution. In childlike age it was frankly and breezily
believed in, misunderstood, and boldly confessed; in youthful age
partially believed in, criticised, and faintly confessed j in middle
age separated from morality, and quite sincerely believed in; and
in old age attacked on all hands, and clung to in frantic and
almost heroic despair; while in every age some noble souls, never
doubting the Divine authority of the particular form of faith
possible to their. era and surroundings, have yet risen into the
understanding of the essence of their religion, as taught by the
Founder of it—union with the Father through the inflowing life of
the Divine Son. And this is by no means peculiar to Christianity :
in all religions thpre has been the prophet, the revealer, the life-
giver on earth, and, removed, the inspirer and guardian angel.
What is peculiar to it is the character and claim of the founder to
be the archetypal man, the Aoyos God, in a sense undreamed
of before: humanity has bowed before that character, and
acknowledged those claims. I am not in the habit of trying to
measure things or persons mighty, marvellous, and holy, knowing
that it is but wasted labour. Of the relations of Christ to
humanity there can be no doubt; His relations to the Supreme
Powers are necessarily incomprehensible to us. That in being
united to Him wo are made one with the Father is all we need to
know. To be saved from vagueness, from unfathomable depths of
hopeless striving, and impassable heights of unsatisfied desire, to
whom shall we go save to the most human and most Divine P
That there is a period of rejuvenescence for Christianity of this
character now dawning few who observe can doubt. Let us bring
to the aid of this our knowledge, of whatever kind, our clearer
morality; but neither knowledge nor morality are religion. A
religion may be immoral, and it may be ignorant, or it may be
pure and holy. Madame de Steiger looks forward to the day
when faith shall be supplanted by intellect, and the scalpel take
the place of the crozier; yet, after all, the imagination, the
feeling, the nonsensical parts of man, are the most real parts of
him; the illimitable longings and gropings after God cannot be
satisfied though a thousand rose from the dead, and the
connection attained by these gropings and longings, with the
Divine realities, is religion, and the connection with them through
Christ is the Christian religion.
In reply to “ JE. G. J.,” I would say that the reason I define
religion as a binding link is because that is the meaning of the
word, which neither Mr. Abbot’s “ opinions,” nor mine, nor
any one’s can alter. What we choose to be bound to in flesh or
spirit is purely (for the present) within our own power to decide.
J. A. Campbell.
Barbreck, Argyllshire. ——
MADAME ENADLT.
Sir,—In your various notices of Madame Enault, the mes¬
merist, I do not think you have been furnished with the precise
modus operandi of that lady in drawing teeth. It is given us in
the Court Journal of Sept. 8th :—“ The thing called Spiritualism
seems bent on proving that, after all, it has a practical mission,
even if it only consists in extracting teeth. There is a lady in
Warrington who is going about doing this to the dismay of
ordinary dentists. Her operation is simplicity itself. A tap with
her wand and a glance of her eye are all that is needed. She has
already extracted a thousand unsound molars and incisors, the
strongest of which are paralysed and drop from the jaw on being
ogled and tapped by this mediumistic operator. She works, by
the way, for nothing. That is one mark in her favour. The
mediums generally go strictly on the principle of ‘No supper, no
song-’ ” Like the staff of a newspaper, I suppose ; and all who
have to eat to live, not having private resources. Scrutator.
THE DEATH-WATCH.
Sir,—Perhaps you will allow me the opportunity of inquiring
whether any spiritualistic light can be thrown on a circumstance
that occurred to me a few weeks ago.
A few minutes after retiring to my bedroom, about eleven
o’clock at night, my attention was attracted by what seemed the
loud ticking of a clock at the other side of the wall between this
and the next house. I had never heard it before, so concluded
it had only just been placed there. After, perhaps, five minutes,
it stopped, when I thought they must have been winding it up,
and that accomplished, the “ticking” was not loud enough to
sound through the wall. To my surprise, however, it began
again in a few moments as distinctly and loudly as ever. To
confess the truth, I became alarmed, for I am of a superstitious
race, and having heard of such a thing as the “ death-watch,”
and being just then anxiously expecting tidings of a rela¬
tive at a distance, I at once feared that this might be
an evil omen. However, I did not wish to believe that,
and called to my aid another recollection, viz., that there
is some insect which, concealing itself in some crack or
crevice of furniture or wood-work in the room, makes the
sound attributed to a supernatural agency by superstitious souls.
So putting out the light, I got into bed. Still I was tormented
by the same sound, tick, tick, tick, as loud as the noise a large
drawing-room clock would make, if left without a glass shade.
At one time it seemed at one wall, and then at the other side of
the room. I got up, lighted a candle, looked carefully and
anxiously on the walls, door-frame, &c., &c., in search of some
strange creature on which to fasten the blame of this nocturnal
disturbance, but nothing could I discover but a few sleeping flies.
And so the noise continued, stopping and commencing again
until about three o’clock in the morning. I am thankful to add
that although once since, in a different room and in daylight, I
heard a similar noise, nothing with which I could connect so evil
an omen (taking it in that sense) has occurred. L. F. 8.
Chester.
[This is an accurate description of the noises made by the
death-watch, a harmless kind of small beetle, common every¬
where, and of which a poet has said :—
“If the insect industriously scratches the post,
All near will infallibly give up the ghost.’’—Ed.]
REVELATION BY DREAM.
Sir,—In reference to the recent article on “Dreams,” the
following may interest your readers :—The head master of one of
the principal London schools, Mr. G , a man of great scien¬
tific research and chemical knowledge, the love of which studies
has been and is, in fact, a part of his life, was some time ago at a
loss for the solution of a certain problem in chemical science.
Night and day he sought and experimented for weeks, but still
this much-coveted result eluded him. He knew, he felt, thus and
thus it must be, but could not hit on the right line. One night,
after hours of feverish, restless tossings, he slept and dreamt that
in a certain book in his library, at a given page, was the solution
to the problem he was seeking. He awoke, and so vivid was the
dream that, though one of the greatest sceptics on all matters
outside the realm of realism, he could not rest till he had been
to see the book indicated in his dream. Imagine his surprise
when at the identical page he found what he had so long sought
in vain. A. M. B. Y.
[This is one of a numerous class of letters in which facts of
value to the world are lost to science for want of authentication
by the published name and address of the actual witness to the
event. The fact above stated is of value to the world, but lost
to it for want of public verification—-Ed.]
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, after a prolonged stay in French
watering-places, is now on his way home direct to St. retersburg.
Mr. W. Eglinton, the medium, is in Sweden, and informs us
that he intends to give seances in all parts of Europe before
returning to London. He will probably go next to St.
Petersburg.
Secret Work.—In the interests of public morality the point
should be sifted whether some of the apparently free reports in
a newspaper are inserted under the pay of the Council of the
National Association of Spiritualists. The Council officially
offered to pay us for the insertion of their reports, which
offer we rejected (unless the word “Advertisement” were printed
at the top), on the ground that it would be a corrupt act to insert
reports on pay, as if they had been put in by the free will of the
editor. Another journal afterwards publicly accepted the offer
thus rejected, and the Council publicly ratified the contract at its
meeting on May 13th, 1879. Yet now Mr. Theobald, and the
editor of the journal, have both published that the reports are
not paid ones. If so, the Council makes one kind of contract
before the public and another kind in secret, and has been posing
before the public as having in fairness made the same offer to
two journals, whereas for one of them it secretly withdrew a
stipulation which an honourable journal had been necessarily
obliged to reject. If the Council has not been making one kind
of contract in public and another in secret, then the statement
that the insertion of the reports is not paid for has no truth in
it, for the publicly-made contract is in force. Secret work should
not be allowed to exist in any organisations supposed to repre¬
sent the public interests.
Oct. 3, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
FICHTE’S SPIRITUALISM.
In the German spiritual magazine, published at
Leipzig, under the title of Psychiche Studien, we
find an article by Franz Hoffman on the Spirit¬
ualism of the late Immanuel Hermann Fichte, who
died the present month at the age of eighty-two.
According to the information that we get from this
source, the ground-thought of Fichte’s system is a
God-given, spiritually real individualism. He accepts
the facts of modern Spiritualism, and refutes the
materialism, the pantheism, and the realistic indi¬
vidualism of the day. From the standpoint of
psycho-physical science he argues in favour of the
objective nature of the soul itself. It has a certain
where in space, but is all-present in every part of its
space-existence. Its body is the real, its conscious¬
ness the ideal expression of its individuality. From
its inner, continuing, invisible body, the separable
exterior body must be distinguished.
The inner body is the soul itself considered in its
sense-relations alone. The outer body is the chemical
material body, appropriated and then dissolved, and,
in death, altogether separable from the imperishable
soul. The whole body is the organ of the soul, the
instrument of its activity, and consequently a system
of organs ; and the soul is unconscious-rational,
body-fashioning force.
Of spiritual facts Fichte says: — “ Considered
singly and incoherently they might leave room for
doubt of their reality ; but through their inner
analogy, one with another, they become credible;
and through their frequent recurrence among different
peoples of different grades of culture in ancient and
modern times, are found to cohere so remarkably
that neither the theory of an accidental reception of
ever-returning delusions, nor that of a superstition
transmitted from generation to generation can suffice
as an explanation. However offensive, therefore, to
the ruling notions of the day, they must be admitted
to the domain of well-accepted psychical facts.”
These are the deliberate conclusions of a philo¬
sopher who was master of all the systems ; an
anthropologist whose extensive experience is made
manifest in the last edition of his work on A7ithro-
pology; a student who vigilantly kept himself
informed in regard to all the great questions of his
time ; and a thinker who had for his earliest teacher
a father of splendid attainments in philosophy, dis¬
tinguished for his patriotism, his pure republican
attachments, and his eminent moral characteristics.
That a man who had the education of I. H. Fichte
should recognise the great truths, objective and sub¬
jective, of modern Spiritualism, is not a matter of
surprise. In his latest work, published some six
months ago, he says to the world that the cause of
Spiritualism in Germany is secure.—Religio-Philo-
sophical Journal.
Wheit organised bodies seek to intimidate a free Press, and to
report in a newspaper their own version of their own proceedings,
such reports are open to criticism. In the authorised report of
the last Council meeting of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, the statement of the lady is suppressed who pleasantly
suggested that the signatures to the recent memorial might be
forgeries. The circumstance that the secretary, Miss Burke,
immediately called tire attention of the Council to the fact that
she could verify most of the signatures is also suppressed.
A GHOST STORY TOLD BY WALPOLE.
Horace Walpole relates the following remark-
M able story, originally related by Lord Ashburnham.
)\ During the hot weather, “his lordship’s very old
! uncle, the Bishop of Chichester, was waked in his
\| palace at four o’clock in the morning by his bed-
n chamber being opened, when a female figure all in
j white entered and sat down near him. The prelate,
> i who protested he was not frightened, said in a tone of
(j authority, but not with the usual triple adjuration,
| ‘Who are you?’ Not a word of reply; but the
(j personage heaved a profound sigh. The bishop rang
> the bell, but the servants were so sound asleep that
(j nobody heard him. He repeated his question ; still
ji no answer, but another deep sigh. Then the appari-
\ | tion took some papers out of the ghost of its pocket,
/j and began to read them to itself. At last, when the
! bishop had continued to ring, and nobody to come,
) | the spectre rose and departed as sedately as it
(I had arrived. When the servants did, at length,
)| appear, the bishop cried, ‘Well, what have you seen ?’
| ‘Seen, my lord !’ ‘Ay, seen! or who—what is the
woman that has been here?’ ‘Woman, my lord!’
(| (I believe one of the fellows smiled.) In short, when
)j my lord had related his vision, his domestics did
\ | humbly apprehend that his lordship had been dream-
) i ing, and so did his whole family the next morning ;
\j for in this, our day, even a bishop’s household does
) not believe in ghosts ; and yet it is most certain that
> I the go od man had been in no dream, and told nothing
(j but what he had seen ; for, as the story circulated and
> | diverted the ungodly at the prelate’s expense, it came
(j at last to the ears of a keeper of a madhouse in the
> | diocese, who came and deposed that a female lunatic
< under his care had escaped from his custody, and
(| finding the gate of the palace open, had marched up
) j to my lord’s chamber. The deponent further said
>j that his prisoner was always reading a bundle of
(j papers. I have known stories of ghosts, solemnly
j j authenticated, less credible; and I hope you will
k| believe this, attested by a father of our own Church.”
MISS TOOPS AND HER GHOST.
)! Miss Toops, aged fourteen, of Westminster, Md., sees at
> | intervals a full-sized ghost—a man with a red face and sandy
/ whiskers. Early in the summer there were rappingS and move-
< j ments about the house, which convinced the mother that her
(| daughter really did see a ghost. One morning, when they slept
)\ later than usual, a little bell was rung violently, and the table-
) j ware was tossed from the kitchen into the bedroom. After this
); the spirit played mischievous pranks almost every morning.
(| When Mrs. Toops would be spreading the tablecloth it would be
i j snatched out of her hand, and plates, knives, and forks would be
> i thrown to the floor. One of its favourite tricks was to strip the
) | beds of their covering, and on several occasions a feather bed was
(| tossed to the floor.
(j There were frequent pulling matches between the mother,
) j the daughter, and the ghost, the latter trying to get possession of
/j sheets and counterpanes as they were being spread on the beds.
(I One day the ghost, seen only by the daughter, but heard by the
\i mother, was unusually troublesome. They were hoeing in the
) j garden, and every few minutes they would be stopped in their
) i work, and would be unable to raise their hoes from the ground.
(i The mother told t-he daughter to strike him. The ghost said, “ If
(i you strike me I’ll be the death of you.” She, however, directed
S j a blow at his face, and instantly fell down in a fit. The girl has
>J spasms nearly every day, in which she loses consciousness. These
)l come on her whenever she resists the ghost or refuses to obey
!'' him,—New York Tribune.
168
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for Its quality and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.]
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage-
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author's Experience—^Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet's
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—^Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—^Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—^Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—•
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley's Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:— Direct Clairvoyahce—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—^Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Meshierism—Concluding Remarks
nd Summary.
ByiMtualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British Museum^treett London
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Seim?:, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modem Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether*
Oct. 3, 1879.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
Oct. 3, 1879.
BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIA¬
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising,
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman Road, Bbixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, <&c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. Sec.
Mrs. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. "Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White's contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, ho
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sic is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-1 ane, E.C.
BAZAAR
AT NEWCASTLE - ON - TYNE.
THE BAZAAR in aid of the effort to
obtain a Lecture Room, and Premises in this
town, more worthy of our beloved cause, will be held
in the Lecture Room of the Newcastle Spiritual
Evidence Society, on Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday, October 28th, 29th, and 30th. Contri¬
butions towards the same, either in money or goods
for sale, will be most thankfully received by the
under-mentioned Ladies:—
Mrs. J. Mould, 12, St. Thomas-crescent, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Mrs. W. C. Robson, 8, Brandling-place West, New-
castle-on-Tyne.
Mrs. W. Hunter, 89, High-street, Gateshead.
Mrs. J. Hare, 15, Chester-crescent, Newcastle-on-
Tjne.
Mrs. J. Hammarborn, 117, Northumberland-street,
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Mrs. Henry Norris, 59, Newgate-street, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Miss Coltman, 4, Picton-terrace, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Miss 0. E. Wood, 3, Sunderland-street, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Miss E. H. Elliott, Albert-drive, Low Fell, Gates¬
head.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, pnilosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented ■writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
16s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of *• M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 01 Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. Y. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
Y.—The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI.—Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adam ant a.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XHI.—^Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVTIX—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
0. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.’’
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint." By Florence Marryat
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. O Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A, Oxon.’’
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
mHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
JL OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Pro'oplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientiflc
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6$d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 93, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Elate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—^Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter HI.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—^Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—^Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Heme—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientiflc Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes —Spinoza—Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—^Testimony of S.
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship —Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Variey, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Cecapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—^Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—^Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, S3, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song"—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ’’—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal deludes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 3, 1879.
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
Gliristmas Pudding’,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound. Ripe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
QTIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
IO AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S ENUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
i\ FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
TpAGGED, WEARY, AND WORN
JD OUT 1! 1 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
END'S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
BerAL.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
» GUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
KJ vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
piapked " ENQ'S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed pn by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2*. 9d. and 4s. Gd.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcbam, London, S.E.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
compared with modern spiritualism.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural. It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, fid. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. fid. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
13 ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
JLYi OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office. 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.O.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . ,76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, ..76
The Thinker. „ V. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . '. . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . ..36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .86
Harbinger of Health .   7 6
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Sjpecial Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . ..36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained. 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 6 0
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PEE MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOBOFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
“ T E JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossonerie, Paris. 
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road,
DR. CARTER-BLAKE’S BRITISH
MUSEUM LECTURES will be recommenced
in the middle of October next, when arrangements on
a large scale will be made to render the British Museum
(as suggested by the Principal Librarian) useful for
the purposes of general tuition before schools.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle. Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready, 48 pp, Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS EOR SEPTEMBER, 1879.
Mesmerism; by S. De Morgan—Popular Errors and
Objections to Spiritualism explained and answered—
The Jewish Kabbalah; by J. W. F.—Spiritualism a
New Basis of Belief; by J. S. Farmer—Memorable
Relations: Ghosts in Tyrol; by A. M. Howitt Watts—
Notes and Gleanings; Spiritualistic Contrasts ; Mr,
Spurgeon vepsus Modern Society; Professor Gairdner
on Spiritualism; Spiritualism and Morals; Exposures
pf Spiritualism; Shelley’s Religious Convictions;
Spirirtualism the Up-Builder of a Rational Faiih;;
Scientific Claim of Spiritualism—Sonnets to a Sister,
of Mercy; by J. T. Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW Hay Nisbet & Co. 52, Ropework-lane
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROF1’, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 6s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),’’ on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING,
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
Spiritual Phenomena in London. By J. F. A.
Cateau Van-Rosevelt   157
Was it an Apparition ?     160
The Remarkable Cure of Henry Slade     160
Apparitions seen at Portnedown Bridge after the
Irish Massacre  161
Norwood          161
Memory and Forgetfulness. By Henry G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S    162
Wassailing the Orchards   162
Dr. Monck. By Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld    163
Mr. Alfred's First Home Stance.—A Test Seance.
By Christian Reimers    163
Holywell and its Pilgrims       164
Cader Idris. By Catherine Woodforde  165
Correspondence:—Clairvoyance—Spiritual Mani¬
festations in Hackney—Dr. Slade — “ The
Corner Stone ’’—Madame Enault—The Death-
Watch—Revelation by Dream    165,166
Fichte’s Spiritualism       167
A Ghost Story told by Walpole   167
ParagraphsMesmerism in Glasgow, 163; Secret
Work    166
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Full wood's Rents.
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Martartone, London,
ip m
