KEGISIBBEB AS A NEWSPAPEB.
¥H>'^ftoi<ocHcSii<
#I^st x'xmmdveb' foiflj Sprikalbm m <&xmi §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly bn Sale at the following places :—LONDON: n, Avff Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corse. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Naziopale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-s^reet. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON':
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 306.—(Vol. XIII.—No. 1.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY 5, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Crmtentg.
-How True Psychical Knowledge Progresses ...,   1
Lady Chatterton’s Spiritualism. By M.A., Oxon  1
The Exorcism of Evil Spirits  2
A Witchcraft Story  ,.. ... ...    ... ... 3
Piychography    4
Clairvoyance      ... 4
Phreno-Mesmerism. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S  £>
The Mediumship of Professor Scaramuzza, of Parma  6
“ In the Streets of, Baltimore.” (Poetry.)   ... ... 7
Physical Manifestations  7
Abnormal Powers of Certain Historical Personages:—
Beronicius—William Gibson—John Stanley—Jedediah
Buxton—Magliabechi ... ...   8
Poetry:—Substance and Shadow  r.  9
Correspondence: — A Mission — Spiritual Intercourse—
Poetry and Spiritualism—The Spiritual Body—A Mes¬
sage through Writing Mediumship—A Clairvoyant
View of a Death-Bed Scene—Spiritual Experiences ... 9
Mediumship and Morality ... ...  11
The Religion of Golden Deeds. By J. T. Markley, Author
of Studies of Character    12
Answers to Correspondents 12
Paragraphs:—A Case of Somnambulism in Glasgow, 1;
Alleged Prevision, 3 ; A Testimonial to Mr. W. Eglin-
ton, 3; Organisations, 6 ; Social Sorrows, 8 ; Buddhism
in America, 8 ; A Model Colony, 11; An Advance 12
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nnHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
•-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. . Among those who
have published their names in connection with?"their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. P. Varley, C.E., P.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-fiolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrisier-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory ; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., 'Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A^ LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T,
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-sefcond-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
ANNALI HELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Calendar.
JULY.
Friday, 6th.—^Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Williams, Medium.
Tuesday, $th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 pin.
Friday, 12th.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Friday, 12th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 pin.
Wednesday, 21th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ ' „ Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 26th.—General Purposes Committee, at
5.30 p.m.
„ . „ Experimental Research Committee, at
at 6.30 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LOUOHBOROUfiH-EOAD-NOETH, BBIXTON.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to' rules of membership, &c., &e., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
I: UNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION,
_J 64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6-to 7. Closed on Saturdays,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. II. July, Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H,
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism-
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly' Home —The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes SArdent. This hook, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Soditi
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Ley marie.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently /produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, Wi
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W«  
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS' BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
 Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Oo., London. 
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d. .
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.D. 1860 to 1873),
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet),<12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s.
SHEFFIELD CUTLERY, &c.
POCKET KNIVES (every kind) for LADIES or GENTS,
Is.’, 2s., and 3s. each, post free.
The Grange Electro-Plate and Novelty Works,
BRACKLEY STREET, SHEFFIELD.
Agents wanted.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’r Military
, Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W,
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one andean easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, LuddateCircus Buildings,London, E.C,
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.  
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.OJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application,
  FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 9J, Great Russell-street, London.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 5, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. CaTdWj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W,
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Bilxton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C„ Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C. , t
Sogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P„ Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Langley House, Grove-lane, Demnark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin. W. H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateof HM.S. “Malapar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
“ heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands. T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sheoter’s-hili, Kent.
Harrison. W. H., 38. Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G C„ Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M l C.E , Junior TTnited Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex,
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Bemers-street, W.
Malthy, Mrs., 61, Gower-^treet, W.C.
March, R. A., 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W W., 118, Albany-street, Regent*s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 8. Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond,
Straw-bridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock. St. George. M.A., 8. Museurti-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Tfirner, J.P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
Y hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. MoreU Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Jtmior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great RusseJiVs-treet, Bloomsbwp,
Londofi, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BalidjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebasiiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S-A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie.Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany;
W. Llndesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany,
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Phlladelphia,U.S-A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, [J.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Ett%rbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137^ Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles •
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, P,russels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athene®, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Glou<Vester-place,Dorset-square,
LondonjN.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. m. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.- Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgom^ry-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Hoivare, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lg&e City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epejjjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, SSontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, D-enbigh-street. Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hailock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. fi. Strat.i’, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion; Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
AJUed Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
SociedadjEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Galle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita dl Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presl-
' dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.  
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of. London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.  
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.8. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal qf Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
 Price Is. - 
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems qf the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
BrancS Office, London.  
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
 London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co. 
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts hound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
rjpHE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
JL journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department:
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, Ac., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr, Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above. ______
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint-
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.   
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
 Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature. 
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St. Honorf,
M
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefield-road, Kings-
land, N.  
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, <fcc., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by ths
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
ATED from Hand-Writing, Phatos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of soience.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutzb. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Past L
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IY. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Past IL
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hose for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVL Little Johnny.—XVlI. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIH. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XxII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV- Resurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets Of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.,
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London: 38, Great Russell-street. W. H, Harrison.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
 London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d..
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Rnssell-
street, ffifomsbury London, W.O  
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O..'
I m tl % mb d
No. 306.—Volujvie Thirteen; Kumber One.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 8th, 1878.
HOW TRUE PSYCHICAL KNOWLEDGE PROGRESSES.
There are of necessity differences of opinion among j
Spiritualists as to the nature of Spiritualism and its
phenomena, consequently of the best methods of propa¬
gating the same, and the causes of the chief of these .
divergences may be seen by a little analysis.
The critical and the emotional orders of mind regard I
Spiritualism to some extent from opposite points of view, j
The more emotional Spiritualists accept nearly all the
trance utterances of mediums as direct revelations from |
the spirit world ushering in a new dispensation, and to he |
received on faith. The critical order of mind recognises i
a certain amount of truth in the position just stated, but |
is able to prove that in many cases the opinions of the I
medium, even when palpably erroneous, come out also I
in trance communications, that the messages are
usually, though not always, limited to his vocabulary, and j
are composed of sentences of the ordinary grammatical
construction of his ordinary utterances. Hence, instead
of accepting the whole of the assertions in faith, it is
seen that a problem is presented requiring critical in¬
vestigation, and that to promulgate the unsifted teachings
as authoritative would be to put into the public mind a
proportion of error mixed with truth.
For this reason those who experimentalise, criticise, and
analyse,, are in the results laboriously separating religious
truth from religious error, and are not only promoting
Spiritualism as a science, but are slowly presenting
Spiritualism more truthfully in its religious aspects. Too j
much prosecution of the opposite method may lead to
believing everything, to fanatical hymn-singing, and to
passing into a state of psychological semi-intoxication
every Sunday. Too much of the critical spirit, on the
other hand, may lead to captiousness and the non-
acceptance of truth on reasonable evidence. An even i
course should be steered between the two extremes.
The more objective of the psychical phenomena give the
opportunity of more easily discovering the laws under
which they are produced, and of gradually ascertaining
how much of the intelligence manifested through them
comes from the mediums, how much from the spirits, and
what conditions favour the presentation of more of the
one than the other. The same laws, so far as they are
known, have been found to apply more or less to the higher
phenomena of trance and clairvoyance; and although they
may have been first ascertained by the examination of the
lower and more tangible facts, they will cause all Spirit¬
ualists to feel themselves in more perfect conscious com¬
munication with the world beyond the grave, by having
furnished the means of more perfectly ascertaining how
much of the messages comes unconsciously from the
mediums, and how much from the world of spirits.
A Case of Somnambulism in Glasgow.—Some three months ago we
reported a deplorable domestic tragedy which occurred on the south side
of the city, and in connection with which a man named Simon Fraser
was apprehended for killing his own child. Fraser, it may be recol¬
lected, is subject to somnambulistic fits, and while suffering from one of
these attacks during the night, he rose out of bed, snatched his sleeping
child from its mother’s arms, under the impression that it was a wild
beast, and literally dashed out its brains against the bed-post. The case
was reported to the representatives of the Crown here, and Mr. W. A.
Brown, the fiscal, made the customary investigation, while official
inquiry was also instituted in Aberdeenshire, of which Fraser is a
native. The result having been submitted to the Crown officials, it has
now, we understand, been arranged that Fraser will be tried at the
High Court of Justiciary on a charge of murder. The case, we believe, j
is set down for disposal ere the present session closes. In all proba- j
bility a special plea of insanity will be put forward, and it will be an
interesting point to settle whether or not somnambulism comes under
this category.—Glasgow Herald,
LADY CHATTERTON’S SPIRITUALISM.*
BY M.A., OXON.
The memoirs of Georgiana, Lady Chatterton, contain
| some items of special interest to Spiritualists, and serve
! to show how intimate is the connection between a sensitive
| and spiritually-cultured being and those supersensuous mani-
| festations which are loosely classed as spiritual, and which
j would be better called psychical. They serve, moreover, to
I show how strong to a nature so constituted—to the tender,
the shrinking, and the nervously conscientious, who is ever
seeking into the depths of consciousness, and striving to
! plumb its mysteries—is the attraction of the proffered peace
of the Catholic Church, with its system of emotional piety,
and its pretended solution of the problems that vex the
inquiring soul.
Lady Chatterton was a woman of power, an artist in a
very highly cultured degree, full of sweet refinement and
grace, living habitually in the sight of God and in the
judgment of conscience. 11 She always sought to know the
will of God, and do it. She always tried to see everything
exactly as it was, without reference to her own wishes.” It
was her tone of mind, essentially of that pietistic type which
is associated with the best specimens of Catholicism—a type
which is, perhaps, impossible, or which, at any rate, does not
attain its full measure of fruitage in any other Church, or
i outside of any religious system—that first led her husband to
| the Church of Rome. Ten anxious years passed before she
i who had shown him the way felt able to follow his example.
It is easy to see, in the diary from which extracts are printed,
that these were years of great mental agony and also of
great spiritual perfecting; and to any student of human
nature the end must have been plain from the beginning.
Once able to give intellectual adherence to certain principles
and propositions, the whole system of the Catholic Church
was eagerly adopted. The personal devotion to the Saviour
and His human Mother, the intervention of saints and guar¬
dians, the personal direction of the confessor which saved
the painful hesitation of past days, all these were much to
her taste. The spirit had been enfeebled by doubt and
vacillation. It could no longer face the responsibility of
choice; and here she found accordingly that guidance could
be given her, and indeed that personal choice was forbidden.
The newly-found rest had its own special charm, enhanced
by the atmosphere of affection in which she found herself;
and more than all in the spiritual reunion with her husband,
for which, through ten long years, she had so yearned.
There was a suitability in the system to the devotee; and
one can see that what, to a robuster mind and one less
emotional, seems vague, and sugary (if I may use the term),
was to her full of comfort, and a quite other kind of sweet¬
ness. She did not seem to see that she was being un¬
healthily nurtured, as a child that is pampered with sickly
sweets. The perfume-laden air became familiar to her,
until the crisp and bracing breeze that would stimulate the
i healthy spirit would chill and paralyse her. And this, no
doubt, seemed natural to her; she liked it, and a very slight
j course of such training was enough to unfit her for a real
spiritual life of energy, and to make self-reliance impossible.
She had been, all through her life, familiar with the super-
sensuous phenomena which Spiritualists know so well. She
knew the date of her death, and the prediction was verified.
She saw the spirit of Father Hewitt, and announced his
death the day before the post brought news of it. She had
seen him (l high above in the air, and he looked at me.
Then I knew that he was dead.” His benedictine robe was
* See The Memoirs of Georgiam Lady Chatterton, by Edward H. PeriDg! (La dea
j Hurst and Blackett.)
2
July 5, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
of dazzling whiteness. “ The next morning’s post brought
us news that he had died at the time when he was seen.”
Lady Chatterton, indeed, had a full knowledge of that
intuitive perception which is the faculty—the sixth sense—of
those who are in sympathetic relations with the world of
spirit. She could warn her friends of death or danger, and
had many intimations of spiritual presence near her. She*
was one night horrified at seeing in the moonlight her
mother’s figure depicted on the bed-curtain, the face deadly
pale, lying on her bed, with blood flowing on the bed¬
clothes :—
“In great terror I got up, and throwing on a cloak, I
rushed off through some rooms and a long passage to my
mother’s room. To my surprise, I saw from the further end j
of the passage that her door was open, and a strong light
coming from it across the passage. As she invariably locked
her door when she went to bed, my fears were increased by !
the sight, and I ran on more quickly still and entered her I
room. There she lay, just as I had seen her on the curtain,
pale as death, and the sheet covered with blood, and two
doctors standing by the bedside.”
A certain Madame Marlay, an intimate friend, professed
also to have the gift of second-sight, and apparently all
mysterious phenomena had an attraction for Lady Chatter- I
ton:—
“ I have often,” she writes, “ stayed at haunted houses,
but have never seen anything, except that, when reading or
working, a shadow has sometimes passed between me and
the light. This has happened frequently. It was as if a
person had passed by and cast a shadow on the page or
work, so that I have constantly turned my head to see who
it was, and found that'nobody was in the room.”
These facts and others like them come out in the life of
this lady, because it was thought worth while to record her ;
biography on other grounds. In how many cases do such !
facts and experiences perish because there is no ground for j!
preserving them. One has only to start such topics in ! j
society to find that nearly everybody has, in his or her own I <
life, some indication of influences other than those that ] J
human knowledge can trace. It is only in those cases, too j1
numerous, but not so frequent as their contrary, where the j i
flesh dominates the spirit, that such phenomena are im- j ]
possible. And then it is not that they do not occur ; it is i
that the blinded eye takes no note of their presence, and has |!
lost the power to appreciate Ihe delicate signs which alone .j
give notice of their approach. Some men (few women) say j <
contemptuously, (i Pooh ! you can’t show me any of these 11
impalpable things.” No; it is true enough, but 1 should ! j
hardly think that it was a subject for congratulation, this j
loss of the spiritual sense. Lady Chatterton never lost it, |
and it was, perhaps, because she possessed it so strongly, j
and because her surroundings were so potent in their j <
influence on a singularly afiectionate disposition, that she j j
took that step which for her, as her life’s story shows, was |
neither blunder nor crime, but which in one of robuster |
mould and sterner self-reliance might well have been both. !
One noteworthy phenomenon, which would seem to show j
that what is called Mediumship was possessed by Lady
Chatterton, is recorded of her death. Round her body, as it ! j
lay after death, “ there was a fresh aromatic odour, as of j <
spring flowers mingled with incense. This was never absent, j |
but sometimes it seemed as if waves of that strange perfume ] ]
were passing through the air.” In the chapel, when she was j1
taken there in her coffin six days afterwards, there was the | \
same perfume, even stronger than before. | j
This presence of scent-laden waves of air is, as Spiritualists ! <
well know, an attendant phenomenon at circles when har- j!
monious conditions prevail, or where it is desired to induce I(
them. I have noticed many such instances in a chapter on ! i
the subject in my Researches in the Phenomena of Spirit-
ualism, and have regular opportunity of observing this pro¬
duction of scented air. It strikes me as curious that the j <
particular scent mentioned, spring flowers, is one that is j J
frequently produced, usually, as I imagine, from the flowers |1
in the room ; but by no means invariably. On many occa- j!
sions I have detected perfumes which must have been ob- P
tained from other sources.
* See sw interesting review of tlie took in Tht Spectator of June 22.
In Lady Chatterton’s case it would, of course, be claimed
that the spiritual odour was one of sanctity. Indeed it is
specially said that it occurred after she had received extreme
unction. In the cases to which I refer I correlate the
phenomenon with nothing more recondite than an attempt
by the invisible operators to purify the air and perhaps
please the sitters. It is the pleasure of the Catholic Church
to claim for those mediums whose lives are spent within her
pale a special sanctity, and a peculiar immunity from the
risk which attends, according to her dictum, on all unlicensed
meddling with the world of spirit. The phenomena, how¬
ever, seem to be much the same, whether they occur after
the medium “ has been anointed,” or while the profane are
sitting round a table to commune with invisible friends ;
and there is, perhaps, as much “ sanctity ” and “ religion ”
in the one case as in the other. The phenomenon, howso¬
ever it occurs, is of great interest.
THE EXORCISM OF EYIL SPIRITS.
The Spiritual Magazine once published an interesting
anonymous article describing a case of demoniacal pos-
j session. The author of the article states that it was
written in 1866, but not then published. It states that a
| poor woman living in the south of England, very
| respectable and apparently perfectly sane, said that she
I had dwelling in her chest a female spirit, who was
I revengeful, tormenting, full of bad language, and who
I delighted in talking of low and disagreeable things. This
i poor woman, to whom the writer gives the assumed name
of “Johanna,” knew that she was possessed by an evil
spirit, and prayed for deliverance from it; she reasoned
| with it, and sometimes refused to utter the wicked words
j which tried to force their ways through her lips. She
| declared that the bad words of the spirit hung round her
lips until the lips became black from the forced repression
of the utterances. The self-command and self-consciousness
| of Johanna did not save her from a charge of madness,
i At one time she was put into a madhouse for a whole year,
| but was let out again, as she could not be pronounced by
the doctors insane, except as to the delusion that she was
| possessed. For years she had been a medium. She said
I that she used to hear many beautiful spirits, who would
| converse with her about God and His works ; they informed
her of approaching deaths, also of important events in the
lives of persons known to her. She stated that one grand
I spirit whom she had first called God said that “ He was
come to sweep through the world and renew the religion
| and bring purity into the world in the place of the evil
and destruction now there.” Here it may be remarked
how the highest ideals of mediums sometimes take tangible
shape; this woman saw the highest spirit of which she
could form an idea, and called him “God;” Swedenborg
did the same. There are in England at the present day
mediums who suppose themselves to be controlled by
Michael and All Angels, although Michael and All Angels
make worthless revelations through them, if measured by
the beneficial results which their present utterances produce
in the human race. To return to Johanna, spirits of a
lower order also appear to have manifested through her.
They sometimes made noises which were heard by other
persons in the room. Johanna had been for some time
living in a house where evil deeds had been committed.
There was reason for supposing that bad spirits haunted
the place, and that the fact of her coming under their
influence by dwelling in the house was the cause of much
of the poor woman’s affliction. Strange and tragical events
had taken place within the walls of the dwelling.
Shortly after Johanna entered this house she fell ill, and
it was then that the evil spirit entered into her. She
described the spirit as entering with a great shock between
her shoulder blades. The maid of Arlach once described
how an evil spirit entered into her by her left side. With
five cold fingers he seized her by the back of the neck, and
with this seizure entered her. Another possessed person
has described a similar entrance through the sole of the
left foot.
Johanna declared that her indwelling demon did much
I mischief in the madhouse; he and other evil spirits, who
July 5, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
dwelt within her as their home, went out as if on excursions
into the lunatics and harmless idiots, and made them rave.
At this time, however, relief came, for after her torments
an angel came and ministered to her. To use the words of
Johanna, “ One day a great angel came so strong that if he
had put out his power he could have crushed the house
down. He said to me, ‘ I will heal thee of thy pain,’ ” for
the evil spirit hurt her physically with internal heat and
soreness. Then the great angel made mesmeric passes
over her, and drew the fire out of her, after which she
rested in peace for many days.
Johanna gave terrible descriptions of the low and
revolting habits of other spirits. She described various
spirits who never moved out of certain corners of rooms in
the madhouse, and who declared that they were bound
there by their “ Master,” and must remain so bound.
These spirits always called the highest power which they
could conceive “ God,” so that Johanna, in quoting their
words, added, “ That is their god, not my God ; their God
is their Master.”
Some friends of poor Johanna, who understood Spirit¬
ualism, tried to relieve her physical discomforts by means
of medicine.
Johanna herself thought that the only remedy would be
to be prayed for. Some locks of her hair were then divided
between four persons living in different places, and it was
agreed that for half an hour one Sunday evening they would
all at the same time pray for the relief of the sufferer. The
husband of one of the supplicants provided himself with the
ancient form of prayer for the casting out of evil spirits,
and commenced reading it aloud; he also offered up a prayer
for the unhappy spirits themselves, as no such prayer was
found in the exorcism.
The narrative goes on to state that the united prayers of
that evening appear to have been answered in one or two
ways: firstly, by the relief of the sufferer; and, secondly,
by clear instructions having been given for her treatment.
Johanna says that at the time she experienced nothing
either beneficial or pleasant, but that when she sat down to
pray the spirit moved her to laugh, but she overcame the im¬
pulse. At the moment she began to pray she felt that she
went with some one to Winchester, no doubt in a state of
trance. At Winchester she remained with her doctor some
time in prayer, and on her return she found that the spirit
inside her was u good like.”
{Some spirit messages given to those who wished to relieve
her said that higher spirits could not overcome the evil ones,
and that the spirit within the woman was learning to pro¬
gress through her agency. It was felt that an entire change
of scene and surroundings for such a patient as Johanna
would help to cure her, and that there ought to be an
asylum where such sufferers could be surrounded by
voluntary companions who understand the phenomena and
principles of Spiritualism. One of the spirit messages given
to the persons who wished to relieve her stated thatli the evil
spirits would endeavour to torment all the persons who tried
to cast them out.”
One of the ladies who tried to cure her was a medium, and
she says that one Sunday evening one of Johanna’s evil
spirits palsied her right hand and made her bark like a dog
for some five minutes whenever she tried to open her mouth.
Her sister said, “ Let us talk of something else,” but it was
in vain, she could only bark. She then grew alarmed, and
with urgent prayer and with violent effort of will got rid of
the barking, although the shaking of the hand continued.
When the stiffened body goes down to the tomb—sad, silent, remorse¬
less—I feel there is no death for the man. That clod which yonder dust
shall cover is not my brother. The dust goes to his place, man to his
own. It is then I feel my immortality, I look through the grave into
heaven. I ask no risen dust to teach me immortality. I am conscious
of eternal life.—Theodore Parker.
(C We enter a field here of no common importance. If what we find
within it will bear the test; that is to say, if our facts do not turn out
to be illusions, or, if not wholly illusory, if they point really in the
direction they indicate to the senses, then is Spiritualism the science
of sciences—the deep sea line with which to fathom all mystery; then
has this age made a contribution to the wealth of human knowledge,
truly worthy of itself—of its grand achievements in the realm of
physics.”—JJr. Hallock, in “ Spiritualism Considered as a Science^
I A WITCHCRAFT STORY.
(j The Hartford (Ct.) Times contains the following:—In the beautiful
11 town of Glastonbury, in Connecticut, the following remarkable event
> | occurred in 1753. In March of that year one Julius Perry went out
(! with his dogs to hunt. In the depths of the forest he discovered (as he
) | alleged) an old grey fox, and his dogs gave chase. After chasing this
) | fox upward of two miles, the animal was holed. When Mr. Perry came
(i up he heard a strange noise over the other side of the hole, and going to
> | the spot, he there found Juliana Cox lying and panting for breath. Her
/1 left shoulder was bleeding, and had on it the marks of the dogs’ teeth.
! This was just the spot on the grey fox’s shoulder where the dogs had
) | seized him. Upon this testimony Miss Cox, a maiden lady of forty-four,
(| was brought to trial for the capital offence of being a witch. On her
|! arraignment she pleaded not guilty, and it was determined that a com-
11 mittee of the select men should examine her person for witchmarks, in
11 order to introduce confirmatory proofs against her. She was therefore
i 1 remanded to prison. The following persons were appointed on the
11 committee—Eben Brewer, Alexas Jones, and Samuel Cutworth. These
(I men proceeded at once to the prison, and stripping Miss Cox they began
| their examination. For a time exceeding an hour they could find no
II marks, and Miss Cox submitted to their examination with tears and
11 sobs. Finally, when they had pricked many places on her body she
(| confessed to two marks—one a little below the right hip, and one on her
j j left arm. The committee now became satisfied that these were true
(| marks, as the flesh was thereon discoloured in a slight degree. They
\ I thereupon made their report to the court appointed to hear the trial.
The evidence confirming that of Mr. Perry was thought to be con-
i ] elusive, and on the 3rd of April the trial took place. It was thought
(| unnecessary to resort to further tests, and Miss Cox was found guilty
) ! of witchcraft on the evidence already quoted, and sentenced to be hanged.
/ | Strange noises and demons haunted the jail at Hartford up to the time
( ! that her execution took place, which was on the 7th of April, at 5 o’clock
| | in the morning. There was a large concourse of men and women
( i attending her execution, and, although she declared that she was
( | unjustly accused, and that she confessed to the witchmarks to stop the
| pain of being pricked so cruelly by the committee-men, yet every person
( i present believed her to be a true witch and in league with the devil.
( | She further declared that Julius Perry accused her wrongfully. She
| I said she was in the forest gathering herbs, and that Julius Perry came
( I along and would have his will of her ; that she constantly refusing, he
i | j set his dog upon her, and the animal bit her shoulder, and that he,
j) | fearing to be detected in this bad act, had laid the charge of witchcraft
(J against her. This she said under the gallows. Whereupon a shout
(| was made among the people to “burn the witch,” as hanging was too
[ j easy a death for so foul a strumpet of the devil. While the people
( | went to fetch wood to burn her, the sheriff hung her up, and she died
(| on the gallows before the wood could be brought. This account of
) | Juliana Cox’s witchcraft and death is abridged from the statement of
| j Dinah Jones before a committee of delegates to revise the laws of Con-
() necticut.
Alleged Prevision.—If there is any truth in the following paragraph
( j from a recent number of the Folkestone Chronicle, it deserves verifi-
(| cation by some of our German readers :—“ It is said that a man has
11 been arrested at Wilhelmshafen for predicting, the day before the event,
j i that the Koniy Wilhelm would run into the Grosser Furfurst. What
| j will be the exact charge brought against him is not stated.”
A Testimonial to Mr. W. Eglinton.—On Wednesday evening
| | | last a large company of Spiritualist friends of Mr. Eglinton assembled
| ) ! at the Beethoven Rooms, Harley-street, London, to bid farewell to
! | | him on his departure for the Cape of Good Hope, and to present him
| J | with a testimonial of their regard and goodwill. The first part of the
11 | entertainment consisted of music and recitations, in which Miss C.
| ( | Leslie-Younge, Signor and Signora Corani, Mr. A. Tietkens, and Mr.
j j j F. Dietz took the chief part. Dr. T. L. Nichols then gave a short
11 j address, in which he bore testimony to the many marvellous
| ( I phenomena he had witnessed through the mediumship of Mr.
| ( i Eglinton, as well as to the integrity of character and courtesy of
i / j demeanour by which he had won the confidence of a large portion of
| ( | the Spiritualists of England. He wished Mr. Eglinton God-speed in
| j I the name of all present, and handed him a purse containing four-and-
i) | twenty pounds, mounted on an elegant cushion of embroidered white
| ( | silk. Mr. Eglinton returned thanks in a few well-chosen words,
11 | adding a tribute to Miss Leslie-Younge, to whom the success of the
|} | meeting that evening was chiefly due. Miss Kislingbury apologised
| ( j for intruding herself into the programme, not being previously
j) ! announced. She did not speak in any sense ofificially, but she would
| r ! feel that she was neglecting a distinct duty towards Mr. Eglinton did
j ( 1 she not on this occasion bear testimony to his great value as a public
j) | medium. Dr. Nichols had spoken of manifestations of great interest
I) | and beauty, which had occurred under circumstances known to all
j( i present as the most favourable for their production, viz., the home
{ I circle. Miss Kislingbury, not having witnessed remarkable phenomena
|) I of the class described, could yet speak with equal satisfaction of mani-
j J | festations occurring under conditions the most trying and unfavourable
j | i to which a medium could be subject—that is to say, the constant pre-
j) i sence of sceptics in an everchanging circle, the strictest tests imposed
I ( | generally by entire strangers, and light sufficiently strong for all to
| > i witness what was taking place, and to see more or less of the medium.
\)\ Mr. Eglinton had'always submitted to these conditions with perfect
! i i good-humour, and had, as a rule, satisfied those present that the
j) j manifestations were genuine. The evening closed with further musio
I ( j and recitations, and the usual votes of thanks. Mr. Eglinton asks na.
I j I to state that he will leave London by the 11.15 Great Western train,
j} I from Paddington, to-morrow (Friday) morning.
4
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 5, 1878.
“PSYCHOGRAPHY.” j
From the “ Banner of Light.''
We have now on hand from London a supply of the new j
volume by M.A. (Oxon.) entitled Psychography: a, Treatise j
on one of the Objective Forms of Psychic or Spiritual Pheno- i
mena. The question is often asked by inquirers, “ What j
phenomenon can you instance as actually proven in broad {
daylight where there was no possibility of fraud or of j
hallucination?” Even our neighbour of uThe Index ” put j
the question, not long since, “ What phenomena occur?” as
if we actually had proven nothing since the outbreak of the j
modern manifestations in 1848!
To all persons who are seriously interested in getting to
this question a clear, scientific reply, in which the facts are
so presented as to be irresistible, we commend this tasteful
and comprehensive volume. The author takes up one of the
multiform phenomena, that, namely, of independent writing
in broad daylight—independent of any known human agency j
or mechanical contrivance—and keeps up the testimony in
proof of it in a way that only a Beard or a Carpenter can
gainsay. To men who take the ground, as Beard does, that
only an expert is qualified to testify to a marvel like psycho-
graphy^ and that there are probably only about half-a-dozen
experts in the world (he, Beard, being one of them ?), it is of |
course a waste of argument and of fact to reply. Our author |
dismisses all such assailants as follows:
“ I shall not vex myself and perplex my readers by the |
discussion of any d priori grounds of rejection with which j
some investigators bewilder themselves. I have nothing to I
do with the allegation that such things are ex naturd remm,
and so are to be rejected without the formality of a trial.
This is an ancient method—more antique than venerable—
of disposing of new facts. There was a time, somewhere in
the world’s history, when it was employed to burke almost j
every manifestation of truth, which was new and unwelcome, j
just as there comes a time in the history of each new dis- I
covery when the old method is abandoned, and those who I
have employed it endeavour, with a shame-faced smile, to
show that they were only joking after all, and were, though !
we might not have observed it, truth’s best and truest I
friends.”
Such opponents as Beard and Carpenter set down those j
facts of nature that are outside of their experience and belief !
as miracles ; but our phenomena are miracles to the ignorant |
only. The more ignorant people are, the more “ miracles ” {
there will be; because, as they are not informed of all the |
phenomena of nature, there is a great number of facts be- {
yond the circle of their knowledge, and which seem to them J
opposed to natural laws. Everything new, unaccustomed, I
and superficially improbable excites laughter, contempt, or
astonishment. The true philosopher ought neither to de- !
spise nor to wonder; he ought to examine.
The author of <c Psychography ” limits himself to the
presentation of facts; and these he presents in such a
phalanx—so thoroughly authenticated—that no reasonable
man can get away from them.
u A fact,” says the author, i( must finally drop into its j
place ; it matters not much save to those who might profit !
by knowledge of it, whether now or in a succeeding age, when j
our children will, it is to be hoped, be wiser than their j
fathers. It is with this conviction that I have endeavoured j
to elucidate one among many of the facts which testify to I
the existence of a soul in man, and to its independent action ]
beyond his physical body; an earnest of its survival and !
independent life when released by death from its earthly j
prison-house.”
The phenomenon of psychography is one so simple, so j
obvious, so aloof from all possibility of trick or fraud, that it i!
was wisely selected by the author of this book as his vantage- j
ground whereon to make a stand. If human testimony is j
worth anything—unless new laws of evidence are to be
.adopted for the exclusion of all inconvenient facts—then is j
psychography scientifically established. You take your own j
slate, hold it in your own hand, and get bn it writing which j
no human being could have put there without your know- j
ledge. Proofs of clairvoyance are often added to give force j
to the supersensual manifestation. Very ably and sue- j |
cinctly has the author marshalled his facts, so as to leave no j i
one weak point in his accumulated testimony in proof of i l
! all this. And it shows what? Why, intelligent action—
writing—by some other than a visibly human agent! There
is no getting away from this plain and irresistible inference.
You may call it a force, or what you please; but it is an
intelligent agent, writing without visible hand or mechanical
appliance, and often executing the writing with a preter¬
human celerity. How will you explain it ?
u As to the facts,” says M. A., “ I shall not attempt to
maintain anything more than, that they furnish evidence of
the existence of a Force, and of a governing intelligence
external to a human body.” Here he leaves us, remarking
in conclusion:
il My aim has been to record facts for such as will value
them. I have but enumerated certain theories without any
desire-—at this juncture and in this volume—to advocate any
of them. In the words of Prof. Gregory : ‘ My object has
not been to explain the facts I have described, but rather to
show that a large number of facts exist which require ex¬
planation, but which can never be explained unless we study
them. I am quite content that any theoretical suggestions
I have made should be thrown aside as quite unimportant,
provided the facts be attended to, because I consider it too
early for a comprehensive theory, and because I believe the
facts are as yet but very partially known.’ ”
We commend this excellent book very earnestly, not only
| to the attention of Spiritualists, but of all inquirers into the
! subject of supersensual phenomena. Indeed every brave,
earnest truthseeker ought to read it and ponder its facts,
i The subject is one of transcendent importance to humanity
J generally; and the time will come when the apathy of men
I of our day upon a subject so grand and significant will
j waken the astonishment of the thinkers of the future.
CLAIRVOYANCE.
The following cases of clairvoyance are extracted from
The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.), and would have gained
in historical value had full names and addresses been
! published :—
Several years ago a gentleman, subsequently one of the
brightest lights among the Spiritualist literati, called at our
| office, and requested our assistance in ferreting out the
i utterer of a forged cheque which had been presented and
J honoured by one of the Boston banks. He came, he
assured us, at the instance of the officials. We sought
I the presence of Mrs. J. H. Conant, and without giving her
j the slightest idea either of the nature of our business or
the character of the closely folded paper, placed the
cheque, arranged in such manner as to be impossible of
i reading, in her hand, and awaited developments. She
I placed it upon her forehead and soon said, “ This is a
j forged cheque; the persons interested will know more about
I it inside of three days.” This message, which was all the
| information she could give through her medial capacity,
we bore to the bank representative who was awaiting the
] reply, and we were forced to agree with him that the
j answer was rather indefinite and unsatisfactory. We
I suddenly remembered that there was a lady in Boston who,
j unlike Mrs. Conant, made a specialty of such matters, and
advertised as a business medium and clairvoyant, and con¬
cerning whose powers we had heard excellent reports;
I yielding to a strong mental impression, we suggested to
! him that we push the matter further, and visit her. This
j plan he considered feasible, and together we sought her
| residence. She also took the contested paper (which re-
| mained closely folded), and held it for a short time in her
| hands, pressing it at intervals to her forehead, and then
| stated it to be a forged cheque—naming the amount; she
I further said, “ The person who forged this cheque is not
! suspected. His name is ,” giving his Christian name
! in full, and then stopping. She, after some hesitation,
I lest her assertions might bring legal trouble to herself,
| gave the number of letters contained in his surname. The
| gentleman pronounced this information to be more satis-
I factory to him, and departed, taking the cheque with him.
I We heard nothing further of this matter for nearly two
! months, and did not know that the persons interested had
I decided to be guided in any way by the clairvoyant’s
July 5, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
warning; but one morning, on taking up a daily paper, we
found it recorded that a young man of this city, whose
designation was given by the clairvoyant (the first name
and corresponding number of letters for the last name), had
been arrested for uttering a cheque on which he had fraudu¬
lently inscribed the names of his employers. It was stated
in the paper that the culprit, a trusted confidential clerk
of the establishment, had been arrested on suspicion, no
evidence against him being known to exist, but that on
being searched at the time of his apprehension another
forged cheque for a much larger amount was found in his
possession, which he had not yet attempted to negotiate.
Of course it was not to be expected that the officials would
acknowledge publicly (or mayhap even privately) that that
correct suspicion had its birth in a visit to a clairvoyant;
but we are personally aware of the correctness of the
statement here made. The young man was subsequently
tried, found guilty, and sentenced for several years to the
Massachusetts State Prison. Here was one direct case
where “ clairvoyance ” gave the clue whereby the “ perpe¬
trator ” of a “ robbery or other crime ” “ was arrested,
brought to justice, and convicted.”
The second narration is contained among others on
pages 167-70 of Nature's Laws in Human Life:"—
“ Some twelve years ago a young man left the town of
R—•—, Vt., for the West, with the intention of making it
his home. After selecting a farm he returned East for the
funds necessary for its purchase—some fourteen hundred
dollars. On his way back he made use of the railroad
cars and stage coaches as far as public conveyance would
carry him, and then was obliged to take private conveyance
or travel on foot to the location selected. He promised to
write to his brother, who was left at home, as soon as he
arrived, but that relative not hearing from him at the
expiration of three weeks, became anxious as to his safety,
and yielding to the desires of some of the friends, visited a
person in the town who possessed the gift of * clear seeing ’
to consult with her as to the fate of his missing brother.
This lady, who was a member of the Methodist Church,
and did not believe in Spiritualism notwithstanding her
mediumship, became unconsciously entranced, and while
in that state described the road as far as the cars and coach
went, and then pictured the absent brother’s taking pas¬
sage in a wagon with three other persons, and the nature of
the route, which was somewhat aside from the regular
roads through a piece of woods. She said they killed him
about the centre of the two-mile journey through these
woods, and threw his body between two fallen hemlock
trees, and that a lock of his hair was now frozen into the
ice where the body lay over one night. She said next day
his body was thrown into a pond near by.
‘‘The remaining brother was so well satisfied in his
mind as to the truth of something very serious having
happened, that he determined to make the journey of some
twelve hundred miles to ascertain the full nature of what
had taken place. On arriving he found everything as had
been described. At the end of the public conveyance he
hired a man to take him to the spot, and to his astonish¬
ment found the lock of his brother’s hair as before
mentioned. Having secured it he went to look for the
pond, and found its bottom to be covered with deep mud,
in which it was impossible to reach the body. So perfect,
however, was the description given him by the clairvoyant
of the persons who wrought the deed, that he recognised
the men as soon as he saw them. On his complaint they
were arrested, and one of their number turning State’s
evidence, they were convicted and sentenced to State prison
for life for the crime. One of the men has since died; the
other still remains in prison.
“ The brother of the murdered man, the lady, and many
others acquainted with the facts, are still living witnesses
to the truth of clairvoyance, in which they firmly believe.
I am acquainted with the lady. Gaining a knowledge of
these facts some time since I thought they should be made
public as additional proofs with which to convince the
minds of the sceptical. Here was a revelation made by a
person who did not believe in Spiritualism, to persons
mostly Methodists.”
Here is a case where the “ clairvoyant” “ revealed a
I murder” “ so that the perpetrator was arrested, brought to
j justice and convicted.” Our contemporary will please
| make note of these instances, which are but two of the
many scattered about over the history of the last thirty
years, and found alike in their startling distinctness in the
experiences of investigators both in this country and in
Europe.
PHRENO-MESMERISM.
BT HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S.
In respect to a science of mind, we must keep in view
what is the scope of observation of the metaphysician or
i idealist in studying his consciousness, which, irrespec¬
tive of the errors and illusion to which he is necessarily
subject, is the reflection of what are but effects, and the
mutual relations of such effects. It is a kind of phantas¬
magoria, varying according to the nature and opinions of
each observer, and not a philosophy at all.
Philosophy is the observation of effects in relation to
causes, in order to discover the laws concerned. The results
j of the imperfect method of proceeding are such as were our
I perceptions and conclusions in respect to light and colours,
before there was a science of optics (that is, previous to the
tracing of the phenomena to their material causes), when
the rainbow was thought to be a mystic sign in the heavens.
The observations on mind are still in this stage of progress.
It appears to thousands much what the rainbow was supposed
to be some years back; a thing of itself, and out of the
i ordinary course of nature, having a supernatural, special,
and free nature. But we are now aware that the rainbow
phenomenon is a necessary consequence of the nature and
| laws of light, which operate universally. I feel almost
I ashamed to offer illustrations of what seems to be such
i | simple and clear matter of fact; but it is necessary to my
j subject.
1 will now proceed to the consideration of the brain and
j |! its parts, in relation to its mental phenomena, in which we
| |! shall find a refutation of both metaphysics and idealism.
We perceive that the body is an independent whole, a
! | unity made up of dissimilar parts, each part having its
| j distinct office and relation to other parts and to the whole.
| | So, likewise, is the brain a unity, divided in like manner.
I The brain is the organ of the mind; and each part has its
j I special function, and its relations with the rest, and to the
j ; wants and conditions of the body at large, or in respect to
| j external nature. Thinkers in all ages have considered that
| | the different faculties of the mind occupy different parts of
I I the body, as in the heart, spleen, and breast; but thought
j i and reason have always been referred to the brain. And,
| j again, without understanding the illusions of the senses or
| | imperfections of the mind as.at once a mirror and an instru-
| ! ment, all must stagnate, and the metaphysician revel in his
| | supposed triumph over the physiologist; but all this must
I | end now, for insufficient as was the means employed, Gall
I I was the first to point out a method of investigating the
I j brain’s relations to the mental phenomena, in what he
I | rightly termed the physiology of the brain ; that is, the re-
i | lation between the development of the brain in respect to the
| i several faculties of the mind. He demonstrated the true
| | method of dissecting the brain by tracing out the origin and
| I course of the nerves and fibrous structure; the common
j | method having been to slice it through, as if you were cutting
! j up a turnip. Sir Charles Bell, by careful investigation, was
j I enabled to exhibit the fact of there being distinct nerves for
| | the offices of motion and of sensation ; thus demonstrating
i a general truth already inferred by Gall, and so far confirm-
I I ing the principle of his philosophy.
Gall proved that each faculty of the mind was a conse-
i quence of the action of a particular portion of the brain
11 as a mental concomitant, and thus laid the foundation of a
| I true science of mind; but though the principle be correct
| | that, other things being equal, size is a measure of power,
| | his method of observing had its limits, owing to the difficulty
11 of observing the size of parts with accuracy; and more
| | particularly with regard to those portions of the brain not
| | in contact with outward portions of the skull, or with the
11 | surface exhibited in the living head. Some help was sought
| j j in observing brains after death; but this presented other
6
TfiE SPIttl'TUALlS'T.
July 5, 1878.
difficulties, and did not avail much. The study of abnormal j j
conditions of brain in relation to abnormal conditions of |
mind was also resorted to, and experiments were made by j
injuring, irritating, or destroying certain portions of the j i
brain of living animals, and comparative anatomy was put ! j
to the test. But very little has been ascertained by these |
last methods beyond establishing the general principles of |
the science. However, the several means must be resorted !j
to as helps, just as we require various senses to correct and
confirm the impressions of each. The more we extend our
knowledge, the more shall we be able to avail ourselves of
the different means of confirmation ; for it is essential to
have established certain fixed points as landmarks, or our
experiments will present to us nothing but uncertainty and
confusion. Very little had been ascertained by these various
means, even after nearly half a century, beyond the original
discoveries of Gall, with a few additions by his pupil and
fellow-labourer Spurzheim.
On first looking into phrenology, I felt the want of some
additional means of observation, and the unsatisfactory
and imperfect condition of the science. I found phreno- !
legists to be, for the most part, ignorant of anatomy, j
and of the labours of philosophers, and resting with the
same confidence and presumption on their thirty or forty j
organs as some others do upon their thirty-nine articles j
of faith. I am not at all surprised, therefore, at the recep- j
tion phrenology has met with from the scientific world ; for !
it was easy to reject the whole where there was really so j j
much error. Phrenologists were dogmatising and fortune- j j
telling with strange incaution, and disgusting people by |
their presumption and blundering, whilst the subject was j
yet in its infancy, and all were professors and few were j
students at the very commencement of the inquiry. But j
there are difficulties, and imperfections, and errors in all j
sciences; and over-confidence, and hasty theorising, and | !
system-making; but when, as Bacon wisely says, men | |
dogmatise and laydown the principles of a science in its j j
infancy with a show of completeness, it may add to the glory j |
of the professors, but will not leave the science in a state of j
growth. Phrenology has been a glaring instance of the evil j
of making too great a show of exactness and method. But j
an interest in the physiology of the brain has been revived |
by the experiments of Dr. Perrier; but the absurd results j I
attained show the folly of the method pursued—that is, by j |
irritating parts of the brain after subduing it by narcotics. I
Mesmerism simply throws the patient into an abnormal sleep, | j
from which you are enabled to wake up or put in activity j !
part after part, arousing faculty after faculty, and thus isolat¬
ing the phenomena. I was fortunate enough to make the
discovery, and will relate how it occurred, with some inte¬
resting collateral matters in relation to the then remarkable
additional means of investigating the functions of the brain,
for the publication of my experiment has been long out
of print, and can be known to few. But since Professor I
Barrett has, in a general way, demonstrated the truth of j
my discovery, we may be sure that a matter so important !
will not be allowed to slumber again ; for what can be more \ j
astonishing than the statement that you may cause a man I j j
to be as one dead, and wake him up bit by bit. The objec- j) j
tion has been that it is all “ thought-reading,” but my j; |
patients never possessed that ability.
Organisations.—It has been pointed out that instances of tyranny in
individual cases are known in connection with existing public organisa¬
tions outside Spiritualism. Nevertheless, the good done by union has
been greater than the harm, and the cases spoken of have not been
sufficiently serious to arouse the feeling of the body of the members.
There is no danger of tyranny from superior men, but small and con- j
tentious people are the greatest despots in existence. Moreover, the
cases of tyranny mentioned occurred with inferior bodies, not kept in j
check by an independent press outside their control, and where such j
conditions exist it would be more dangerous to organise. Sir Roderick j
Murchison once, as president of the Royal Geographical Society, ]
pointed out that it was advantageous to themselves and the public that
organised bodies should act within the region of the influence of a
healthy outside public opinion, and this is the constitutional position j
taken by the English Parliament. Inferior organisations, which care
nothing for constitutional management, always grasp at all the power i
they can get; they seek to gag the press, and try to prevent the j
bringing of outside opinion to bear upon their doings. Hence, when j
organisations are at work, a free press is a great public safeguard. I
THE MEDIUM SHIP OF PROFESSOR SCARAMUZZA OF
PARMA.
I think it will interest your readers to hear some parti¬
culars about an Italian gentleman, whose name and merits,
besides the remarkable phenomena which occur in his
presence, make him perhaps the most prominent medium in
our country. I allude to Professor Scaramuzza, the Hon.
President of the Fine Arts Academy of Parma, the skilful
painter whose works—the ic Aminta,” the “ Assunta,” the
“ Baliatico,” the <c Limbo,” and many other most beautiful
pictures in the Picture Gallery at Parma, and in the Royal
Palace at Turin—are much admired. Perhaps I need not
mention the wonderful 244 pen illustrations of Dante’s
1 Divina Oommedia/’ as they are true masterpieces, by
which he has acquired great fame not only in Italy, but also
in foreign countries. Such activity would seem too much
for the whole lifetime of an artist, and of an old artist too,
for Professor Scaramuzza is now about seventy-five. He
has given such a mass of writings, such a flow of verses and
prose, as to eclipse Voltaire, Metastasio, and Holler rolled
into one. These writings, of which only a small part has
been published, do not extend farther back than the year
1866, when he began to be a medium. Among the printed
works, besides an almanack of Spiritualism for that year,
dictated, as he says, by four ancient Italian poets, there are
two comedies, two “ Canti,” and a poem of 24,000 verses ; the
Poema, Sacro, dictated the first by Goldoni, the second by
Dante, the third by Ariosto. As to the unpublished writings,
some due to the afore-mentioned authors, some to others,
they are numberless : poems, poetical tales, short novels,
romances, tragedies, sermons, and treatises on philosophy.
It is true that although these published and unpublished
works are, as literary productions, peculiar and really
valuable and beautiful, they often want clearness and
conciseness, consequently strength; but they have always
the suitable colour of the literary period to which the
dictating author belongs, and here and there present some
glimpses of his characteristic manner and prominent
qualities. Nobody could obtain such results on purpose,
unless he were a very learned and skilful writer, our
language being so soft, so delicate, so malleable, as to be in so
continuous a metamorphosis as to mark not only every time,
but also every individual difference. The aphorism “ Le
style e’est Thomme” was never so true elsewhere, and never
found such marked illustrations as in our country. Pro¬
fessor Scaramuzza declares himself as almost entirely lacking
in all literary culture, and everybody in Parma knows it to
be true. We have, consequently, the striking fact of a man,
in his old age already, who having never hitherto written
a line, becomes at once a wonderfully prolific author, fairly
imitating the most different kinds of style; we have also
the important fact of a celebrated artist risking his name
to testify to the truth of his medium ship ; and this in our
country is certainly more hazardous than elsewhere, because
of the want of a scientific Spiritualism, and of a true in¬
terest in all questions of a speculative and religious nature.
Our indifference to these questions is a secular one. There
are not few persons who, in effect, do call him a fool; and
his milder censors call him a visionary.
Spiritualists know by experience that there are many kinds
of mediumship; that every medium is particularly adapted
to the evolution, not only of a special order of phenomena,
but also of particular classes of communications, so they
will not be surprised if I say that Professor Scaramuzza is
not the proper medium for a test seance. In the first place
he has no idea of the analytical tendency of our times; he
is so deeply convinced of the reality of the psychological
facts, that if somebody asked to try test experiments to
solve problems in a scientific way, offence would be taken.
Moreover, his communications rarely contain private family
details, which are always so necessary to prove spirit-identity,
the corner stone of Spiritualism. But, without such in¬
vestigation, he sometimes encounters remarkable incidents
in connection with his mediumship. He told me that he
always traces the first verse of each of his poems, or the
first line of his treatises and romances without knowing
what he is about to write ; he has sometimes suddenly ceased
to write in the middle of a composition for more than a
July 5, 1878.
THE SElEITUAtlST.
1
month, because the dictating power ceased to act, occupied !,!
himself in other directions during the month, then resumed j' j
the original work at once, when he had almost forgotten its L]
purport, but he had not the least difficulty in going on with j j
it. Every day he receives a great number of letters, asking | j
for spirit communications. I do not know if all inquirers j j
are satisfied with the replies ; but the fact of the sending in j j
of so many requests from serious and respectable persons j j
shows the honour and the consideration which the medium j
enjoys, and proves that Spiritualism is making its way in I
our country. A. P.
Milan. j
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS. j
Last Wednesday night a private seance was held at the j
residence of Miss Ottley, 41, Denbigh-street, Belgrave- j j
square, London, at which Mr. Eita was the medium. The I j
witnesses present were Miss Ottley, Miss Emmet, Mrs. I j
Mooney, Major Proudfoot (Military Secretary of the | j
Nizam’s Government), Mr. E. S. Inglefield, and Mr. W. | |
H. Harrison. The seance took place in the darkened j i
drawing-room, which had never been entered by Mr. Eita j j
in his life before, and his hands were held all the time by |p
Miss Ottley on the one side and Mr. Inglefield on the | j
other. Under these conditions lights were produced and !
floated about, playing musical instruments went to the back j
of some of the sitters furthest from the medium, a heavy I
arm-chair was heard moving about the room, and was |
afterwards passed over the heads of the sitters and
deposited on the top of the table. After a poker and
shovel had been floated about in the air with some noise,
they were placed in the said chair, and the fender was
next placed upon it after being passed over the heads of |
the sitters, and all these things were found on the table I
when a light was struck. Several other physical manifes- I
tations of the same kind took place, and materialised spirit | j
hands touched everybody present. The hands of all the ;
sitters were interlinked throughout the stance. A j
materialised spirit form showed itself four or five times over H j
the centre of the table; it was robed in white, was seen by j j
all present, and illuminated its features—which were seen j !
to be living—by the light it held in its hands. From first I I
to last the hands of Mr. Eita were not free, but held con- | |
tinuously by Miss Ottley and Mr. Inglefield.
“IN THE STREETS OF BALTIMORE.”
The following inspirational verses, quoted from Miss Lizzie Doten’s i j j
Poems from the Inner Life, were given through, her trance medium- j j j
ship, and taken down in shorthand at the time :—
Edgar A. Poe.—As the circumstances attendant upon the death of j
Poe are not generally known, it may be as well to present the facts in j)
connection with the following poem. Having occasion to pass through j {
Baltimore a few days before his intended marriage with a lady of family and j
fortune in Virginia, Poe met with some of his old associates, who induced i j
him to drink with them, although, as we are informed, he had entirely j)
■ abstained for a year. This aroused the appetite which had so long slumbered j j I
within him, and in a short time he wandered forth into the street in a state J |
of drunken delirium, and was found next morning literally dying from j i
exposure. He was taken to a hospital, and on the 7th of October, 1849, j ]
i at the age of thirty-eight, he closed his troubled life. The tortures and j j
terrors of that night of suffering are vividly portrayed in the following poem, JI
composed in spirit-life, and given by him through the mediumship of Miss j i
Lizzie Doten, at the conclusion of her lecture in Baltimore, on Sunday evening, j!
January 11, 1863.”—Banner of Light. jj|
Woraan weak, and woman mortal,
Through thy spirit’s open portal, ij|
I would read the Runic record
Of mine earthly being o’er—
I would feel that fire returning,
Which within my soul was burning, ll
When my star was quenched in darkness, : j j I
Set, to rise on earth no more, „ i |] |
When I sank beneath life’s burden j
In the streets of Baltimore ! ' !j j
O, those memories, sore and saddening ! |(|
O, that night of anguish maddening ! 1(|
When my lone heart suffered shipwreck jjj
On a demon-haunted shore— I i
When the fiends grew wild with laughter, i‘i
And the silence following after,
Was more awful and appalling
Than the cannon’s deadly roar—
Than the tramp of mighty armies
Through the streets of Baltimore!
Like a fiery serpent coiling,
Like a Maelstrom madly boiling,
Did this Phlegethon of fury
Sweep my shuddering spirit o’er I
Rushing onward, blindly reeling,
Tortured by intensest feeling—
Like Prometheus, when the vultures
Through his quivering vitals tore—
Swift I fled from death and darkness,
Through the streets of Baltimore!
No one near to save or love me !
No kind face to watch above me !
Though I heard the sound of footsteps,
Like the waves upon the shore,
Beating, beating, beating, beating !
Now advancing, now retreating—
With a dull and dreamy rhythm—
With a long, continuous roar—
Heard the sound of human footsteps,
In the streets of Baltimore!
There at" length they found me lying,
Weak and ’wildered, sick and dying,
And my shattered wreck of being
To a kindly refuge bore!
But my woe was past enduring,
And my soul cast off its mooring,
Crying, as I floated outward,
“ I am of the earth no more !
I have forfeited life’s blessing
In the streets of Baltimore! ”
Where wast thou, O Power Eternal!
When the fiery fiend, infernal,
Beat me with his burning fasces,
Till I sank to rise no more 1
O, was all my life-long error
Crowded in that night of terror ?
Did my sin find expiation,
Which to judgment went before,
Summoned to a dread tribunal,
In the streets of Baltimore 1
Nay, with deep, delirious pleasure,
I had drained my life’s full measure,
Till the fatal, fiery serpent,
Fed upon my being’s core !
Then with force and fire volcanic,
Summoning a strength Titanic,
Did 1 burst the bonds that bound me—
Battered down my being’s door ;
Fled, and left my shattered dwelling
To the dust of Baltimore !
Gazing back without lamenting,
With no sorrowful repenting,
I can read my life’s sad story
In a light unknown before !
For there is no woe so dismal,
Not an evil so abysmal,
But a rainbow arch of glory
Spans the yawning chasm o’er !
And across that Bridge of Beauty
Did I pass from Baltimore!
In that grand, Eternal City,
Where the angel-hearts take pity
On the sin which men forgive not,
Or inactively deplore,
Earth has lost the power to harm me !
Death can never more alarm me,
And I drink fresh inspiration
From the Source which I adore—
Through my soul’s apotheosis—
That new birth in Baltimore!
Now no longer sadly yearning—
Love for love finds sweet returning—
And there comes no ghostly raven,
Tapping at my chamber door !
Calmly, in the golden glory,
I can sit and read life’s story,
For my soul from out that shadow
Hath been lifted evermore—
From that deep and dismal shadow,
In the streets of Baltimore!
On Sunday next Mr. Morse will deliver a trance address in the
Spiritualists’ Lecture Hall, Weir’s-court, Newcastle—subject, “The
Life that is,-and How to Bless it;” service *at 6.30 p.m. Also on
Monday evening, July 8th, at same place, subject, “ Men and Women
chair to be taken at 8 p.m.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 5, 1878.
ABNORMAL POWERS OF CERTAIN HISTORICAL
PERSONAGES.
BERONICIUS—WILLIAM GIBSON—JOHN STANLEY—JEDEDIAH BUXTON—
MAGLIABECHI.
Glancing through the biographies of various remarkable
characters who have existed on the face of this globe, it
struck me that it would not be unacceptable to your readers
were I to epitomise their history so far as that history bears
upon mental capabilities and phenomena.
Beronicius, the first on my list, was an extraordinary
poet of the 15th century. Only one of his works is to be j
found, first published at Amsterdam in 1672, and a fourth j
edition in 1716. It has a Latin title, and is in heroic verse. I
It is related of him that he never wrote his lines, but recited !
them extempore with such celerity that a swift writer
could with difficulty keep pace with him. He could trans¬
late into Greek or Latin verse the weekly newspapers of the j
time. He knew the whole of Horace and Virgil, the greatest j
part of Cicero, and both the Plinys, and would immediately,
if a line were mentioned, repeat the passage, and tell the j
extact work, chapter, and verse of all these and many more, |
especially poets. As to Juvenal, his works were so inter- j
woven in his brain that he retained every word. It was j
the same with respect to Homer and Aristophanes. It j
was quite a matter of conjecture what countryman he was, j
and he would himself never admit his birthplace. He I
travelled England, France, and the Netherlands, carrying |
all his property with him. He gained his living by sweep- j
ing chimneys and grinding knives and scissors. His hours j
of relaxation were spent in the lowest winehouses, and he
ultimately ended his career by being smothered in mud at
Middleburgh whilst intoxicated.
William Gibson, born at Bolton, a village in Westmore¬
land, in 1720, became a self-taught philosopher. Before
he had learnt to write, and could scarcely read, which was
at eighteen years of age, he became so expert a calculator
that he could tell, without setting down a figure, the product
of any two numbers multiplied together, although each of !
the numbers might contain as many as nine figures. In i
the same way he could answer questions in the extraction of |
square and cube roots, where a great multiplicity of figures |
is often required in the operation. All this while he did not I
know that any merit was due to himself, but that the j
capacity of other people was like his own. He then began j
to learn his native language well, and ultimately became a !
mathematician of the highest order. For the last forty j
years of his life he kept a school of eight or ten young !
gentlemen, who lodged with him at his farm. He died at j
Blawith, near Cartmel, in 1792, leaving a widow and ten j
children.
John Stanley was a blind musician and composer born in
1713. Dr. Alcock says of him—“ I was his apprentice, and |
the first year I was with him, I remember his playing occa- j
sionally,forhis amusement only, atbilliards, shuffle boards, and |
skittles, at which games he constantly beat his competitors. !
He could show me the way through the streets of West- j
minster, both on horse and foot, through intricate places |
where I had never been before.” He had so correct an ear I
that he never forgot a voice he had once heard. A gentle¬
man he had once known, but who had been in Jamaica j
twenty years, said on his return in a feigned voice on meet- j
ing him, “ How do you do, Mr. Stanley ?” When, after a j
slight pause, he replied, “ God bless me, Mr. S , how long j
have you been in England?” He played at whist with |
great readiness and judgment. Each card was marked at j
the corner with the point of a needle, but the marks were so
delicately; made as scarcely to be seen by any person not <|
apprised of it. He could distinguish colours, tell the precise j
time of a watch, name the number of persons in a room on |
entering it, miss any person who went out, and say who the j
person was. In a word, his conception of youth, beauty, j
symmetry, and shapes were, in'a person in his situation, truly j
extraordinary attainments. He died in 1786.
Jedediah Buxton was born in 1705 at Elmeton, in Derby- |
shire. He was neither taught to read or write, but he had j
a wonderful natural talent for calculation, to which he bent i
all the powers of his mind. His method of calculation was |
entirely his own, and by no means the briefest. Being re- j
quired to multiply 456 by 378, he gave the product mentally i
;i j
| as soon as one of the company, who worked it out in the
i common way. A person asked him how many barley corns
1 would reach eight miles. In one minute and a half he
| answered—1,520,640. On another occasion a person pro-
| posed to him:—In a body the three sides of which are
| 23,145,789 yards, 5,642,732 yards, and 54,965 yards, how
| many cubic eighths of an inch are there ? In five hours
Jedediah had accurately solved this intricate problem, though
in the midst of his work, and surrounded by over a hundred
labourers. He seemed to have lost interest in everything
but calculation. He was once taken to London, and went
to see the tragedy of King Richard the Third at Drury Lane.
It was thought this novelty would entertain him. His pas¬
sions were not at all aroused, his thoughts being far other¬
wise engaged. During the dances he reckoned the number
| of steps, and he counted the entire number of words uttered
by Mr. Garrick in the whole course of the entertainment—
a feat with which he was intensely pleased. He had no
ambition in life beyond figures, but to the last earned his
bread by the sweat of his brow. He died in 1775, aged 70.
Magliabechi was born at Florence in 1633. His parents
were of mean rank and estate. Being taken into the ser¬
vice of a bookseller, a passion for reading took possession
of him, and a prodigious memory ensued. He read every
book that came into his hands with surprising quickness,
and yet retained not only the sense, but often all the words.
His extraordinary talent soon obtained for him an appoint¬
ment under the great Duke’s librarian. A trial of his sur¬
prising powers was once made. A gentleman in Florence
had written a piece which was to be played. He lent it to
Magliabechi, and some time after it had been returned he
came with a long face to Magliabechi, and, seeming almost
inconsolable, asked if he would try to recollect as much as
he could, and write it down. Magliabechi assured him he
would, and on setting about it wrote out the entire play
without missing a word. By treasuring up everything he
read, his head at last became an universal index both of
titles and matter. When a priest was going to compose any¬
thing about a favourite saint, Magliabechi could at once tell
him what everybody had written about that saint, and refer
| to the authors. The Grand Duke Cosmo III. made him his
| librarian. Here he had immense facilities for reading, but
ultimately he was dissatisfied, for he had read almost every-
j thing ever written or printed, it being a custom for most
authors to send him a copy. He not only knew the contents
| of books, but the very place on the very shelf where they
‘ stood in the great libraries of Europe. The grand duke
j asked if he could get a certain book that was particularly
scarce: “ No, sir,” answered Magliabechi, “ it is impossible,
| for there is but one in the world, and that is in the Grand
| Signor’s library at Constantinople, and is the seventh book
I on the second shelf, on the right hand as you go in.” He
i lived to be eighty. He was not an ecclesiastic, but would
! never marry. He was sloven in his dress and manners, and
in his living affected the character of Diogenes, his daily
j food being three hard eggs and a draught or two of water.
! He died immensely rich, which went to endow a library,
I and the rest to the poor. T. J.
Social Sorrows. — Vanity Fair says: — “It is melancholy to see
i how large the proportion is of young ladies who marry in order to
! get rid of their mothers. In this they display a want of judgment which
j they invariably repent most bitterly afterwards. It is true that nobody
| can make herself so odious to a girl as her own mother, for nobody can
so surely or so unceasingly inflict those small, petty, pinprick injuries
|. which women feel so much, and of which women alone have the secret.
But it were better for a girl to endure a thousand mothers for a thou¬
sand years than to hand herself over body and soul to a boor or a sot for
whom she can feel no possible sympathy, and from whom she can find
! no possible release. Yet we find beautiful and delicate creatures ready
j and even anxious to do this every day.’’
Buddhism in America,—The Banner of Light of June 8th last says:
“ Mrs. Mary M. Peebles, who came on from Hammonton, N. J., to
meet Dr. Peebles and attend his reception by the Boston Spiritualists,
brought him, among other letters from foreign lands, one from Mr.
Doncarolis, a prominent Buddhist layman of Colombo, Ceylon, speci-
| fying upon what terms a distinguished Buddhist priest would visit
j America, and spend a year as a missionary to begin the work of
j evangelising the corrupt and war-practising Christians of America.
This Buddhist, Doncarolis, corroborates what we previously published
in one of Dr. Peebles’s letters, that two Buddhist priests were already
in France, the one teaching the Pali language to some University
i linguists, and the other labouring as a missionary among the Catholics.’
July 5, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
foettg.
SUBSTANCE AND SHADOW.
An anonymous poem, published in pamphlet style, and entitled “ Fern
Leaves from Fairy Land (H. K. Le^ris: London), has been sent us by the
author. The lines appeal to the reason and not to the emotions, and they
are of a thoughtful nature. The author argues that what is called “ evil ” is
but the necessary result of the working of beneficent laws. He also points
out to children that that which is spiritual is real, eternal, and can be carried
by its possessor to the other side of the grave, whilst all that is material has
to be left oh this side, and not unfrequently after having demoralised the
spirit of the possessor:—
The smart man lies a little, gains
A dollar here and there;
Worries his brains with ceaseless pains
To seize his neighbour’s share:
Dies worth a million, and at dawn
Finds his account on heaven o’erdrawn.
For when you give you gain, my dears,
And when you grasp, you lose ;
Nothing is just what it appears,
But fools, like fools, will choose:
So paltry the sham gains of sense,
Their consequences so immense.
Like foolish cur, who, meat in jaws,
Crosses the bridge of plank,
Whom wave reflections bring to pause
Midway from either bank ;
Who, snatching at the shadow, drops
The real prize from his greedy chops.
GTnrreaponuence*
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he retv/rned;
copies should he kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are not anonymous.']
A MISSION,
Sir,—-C( The Mission to Friendless and Fallen Women —This is an
individual effort commenced in November, 1874, in Bristol. Illness,
want of means, and adverse circumstances caused the work to stop for
a time, though there was acknowledged good done, for seven women
who had stood at the corners of the streets at night were taken from
their low estate and restored to reputable life by giving them honour¬
able employment—not charity.
A committee is now in course of formation; the individual effort is
being organised into a joint labour of love, and aid is asked to carry it
out, so that there may be no failure, but perfect success.
The patronage at present includes that of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.; Mrs. Matheson, 88, South-
street, Grosvenor-square; Mr. Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-square,
S. W.; Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall, Avenue Villa, Kensington; and Mr.
T. Salsbury, 249, Oxford-street. The working committee consists of
Mrs. Maltby, 61, Gower-street, W.C.; Mrs. Kilpin, 18, Fitzroy-square ;
Mrs. Wilkes, 42, Gower-street, W.C.; and Mrs. Hewitt, 42, Gower-
street, London.
The subscription list is headed by Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, £1 ;
Mrs. Matheson, monthly donation, £1; Mrs. Hall, 10s.; Mr. Alexander
Calder, £5; Mr. T. Salsbury, £2 2s., with a promise of stock and some
articles of furniture. Mr. S. C. Hall also gives some stock for a shop
which will be opened in the East of London, and will be self-supporting
and useful as an open door where those seeking help and refuge can
find some one who will aid them to reach a higher life.  .
SPIRITUAL INTERCOURSE.
Sir,—The following are extracts from theosophic correspondence
between “Louis Claude de St. Martin” {dit “ Le Philosophe Inconnu”)
and “ Kirchberger, Baron de Liebistorf” (member of the Grand
Conseil of Berne), during the years 1792-97 :—
Baron Kirchberger writes :—
“ As for me, I look upon manifestations, when they are real ones, as
an excellent means for advancing our inward work ; and I believe that
a lifting up of the soul to the Supreme Being, adherence to the active
and intelligent cause, purity of will which desires only to approach
more nearly, and unite with, the Source of all light, without any return
to ourselves, and the Name of Names, are infallible means of receiving
these gifts without mixture or illusion. . . . Pordayre shows me the
importance of physical communications ; but what the English of
to-day (not Pordayre) call second sight, which they acquire by tradition
or initiation, appears to me always to lead into a region where the
good and bad orders are mixed, and seek society with us. I imagine
different sorts of progress amongst men of desire, each of whom pro¬
duces effects more or less elevated and pure. But must we pass through
the second sight to arrive at pure communications 1 ”
St. Martin in reply :—
“I think the matter itself has acted variously on the elect, giving to
some merely internal communications, without any external; to
others, external ones only, and no internal; to others, both. I
believe that the traditions, or initiations, called second sight, may
have misled some men and been useful to others, because, with upright
beginnings and a well-intentioned heart, God sometimes leads us to
the light, even over precipices. . . No tradition or initiation of man
can ever be sure of leading you to pure communications, because God
alone gives them.”
I Again St. Martin says :—
| “ As to the belief in the existence of all these things, it rests on the
| belief in our spiritual nature, and the right and connexions which this
| title of spirit establishes in and around us. . . . Address your soul
and your worship ... to the great principal Himself. He will not
give you serpents when you ask Him for bread. . . . All wonders, all
facts will appear simple to you, because to you they will be only a con¬
sequence of the nature of our being, from which we have deviated,
i and which the Divine hand alone can restore, through the organ of
I the repairer [i.e., Christ]—depths on which I should be but a
j stammerer compared with our friend Bohme, to whom I refer you.”
I Kirchberger writes:—
l “ One of the grand means of approach which God teaches is, I
believe, to do His will. Now to do His will is to assimilate ourselves
| to His agents, and thereby facilitate their work upon us. As for the
I manifestations, whether interior or exterior, I look upon them as means
| for increasing our faith, our hope, our charity, which is an inestimable
| advantage.” '
| Kirchberger relates the following anecdote about Lavater:—
II “I found some old. acquaintances at B&le, who, to my surprise, were
i very advanced in the theory and practice of communications. They
‘ j told me of an event which has just occurred to a celebrated ecclesiastic
i j of Zurich, whom I formerly knew; his name is Lavater.
i “ He has received an invitation to go to see some persons of the
j | highest rank in a northern court. . . . He met there with men of edu-
I! cation, engaged in public business, and living in the world, occupying
> | high positions—men of acknowledged probity, who, in inviting him,
j could have no motive but one of goodness, for they even defrayed the
) expense of his journey. These men assure him that they have imme¬
diate communications with the active, intelligent cause; they assure
him that one of his friends, dead some time ago, will, through his
mediumship, enter their society. These men promise to enlighten him
) on subjects on which he had prayed for light for a long while. . . .
( “ These men tell him that when they are assembled, and even some
( of them when alone, they receive at once answers to questions they ask—
) at least a yes or a no, which leaves no room for mistake; that often,
( even without preliminary inquiry, they receive communications and
{ revelations by which several important matters have been cleared up.
j They tell him also, what is very remarkable, that whenever they are
| together they have a most intimate experience of the truth of the pro-
| mise, “ When two or three are met together in my name, there am I in
) | the midst of them; ” since then, a cloud, white as snow, descends, and
(| for about half an hour rests upon them. They were convinced that
j | these manifestations were signs and emanations of the active and in-
| j telligent cause.” F. J. Theobald.
) l  
< i POETRY AND SPIRITUALISM.
j | Sir,—Sir Walter Scott gave up writing his dramatic stories in verse,
11 though he continued to introduce verse into the prose compositions
(j called novels; and in the preface to Kenilworth he says—“ The reader
) | will find I have borrowed several incidents as well as names from Ash-
(1 mole, and the more early authorities, but my first acquaintance with the
(j history was through the more pleasing medium of verse. There is a
51 period in youth when the mere power of numbers has a more strong
< ] effect on ear and imagination than in more advanced life.” But proso
| i works, such as the Bride of Lammermoor and Kenilworth, are quite as
) I poetic and dramatic as his works in verse, such as The Lady of the
(( Lake and Lay of the Last Minstrel.
{I Lord Verulam, in his great work the Be Augmentis, well remarks
)! that “ The ancients used hexameter for histories and eulogies ; elegiac
j | for complaints; iambic for invectives; lyric for odes and hymns. Nor
j! have the modern poets been wanting in this wisdom, so far as their own
j | languages are concerned. The fault has been that some of them, out
(| of too much zeal for antiquity, have tried to train the modern languages
)! itno the ancient measures (such as hexameter, elegiac, and sapphic)—
11 measures incompatible with the structures of the languages themselves,
{| and no less offensive to the ear. In these things the judgment of the
) j sense is to be preferred to the precepts of art, as the poet says—
\ I Casnce fercula nostrce
Mallem convivis quam placuisse cods.
j And it is not art, but abuse of art, when, instead of perfecting nature, it
perverts it.”
I pen this in the belief that you will agree with me that poetry and
I the language of the imagination cannot be very distantly related to
Spiritualism, in the view of “ perfecting natureand although in¬
spirational speakers and mediums do not invoke the Muses, they look
for inspiration from what is nearer at hand.
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer. — — ■—
THE SPIRITUAL BODY.
Sir,—The following is a summary of a few ideas upon the above
. subject, delivered through the mediumship of Mr. S. De Main, High
Grange, one Sunday evening.
As far as our knowledge leads us, we understand that the spiritual
body stands in relation to the soul the same as the physical does to the
spiritual, but answers many more purposes. . The spiritual body is the
perfection of the material. Three principles form the entire man—
body, spirit, and soul. Unless they were thus combined man could not
| associate with matter, because matter presents no obstruction to spirit;
I thus, by a natural law, man comes into contact with matter in order to
j fulfil the purposes of life.
| There is a force in nature called cohesion, by which atom is attracted
to atom, and thus an accumulation of elemental particles becomes
visible in the form of mountains, rocks, and material objects. The
1 particles of material food are possessed of spiritual substances, which
10
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 5, 1878.
•ultimately, by.laws of attraction, form part and parcel of the spiritual
body. The spiritual body draws nutriment from the material, and, as
the waste exhaled from the physical must be supplanted by fresh
elements, so the spiritual must receive the necessary combinations
which are essential to its existence. The spirit, however, must be
sustained by a power more subtle than that which sustains the
material. Thought is the food of the spirit, and the various organs of
the spiritual body are adapted for the reception of that thought. When
the material principle has accomplished its object it decays and returns
to associate with other particles of matter, but man still possesses body
and soul. Matter may fade and decay, but it is utterly impossible for
the outer expression to become separated from the divine principle
within.
The spirit body will never be detached from the soul as long as the
eternal cycles shall roll. What power could use it, for it is inde¬
structible ? And if man could lay it down in spirit life, it would remain
there for ages and never be dissolved. Should the outer expression of
the soul-principle ultimately converge to the inner being and become
one absolute whole, then there would be annihilation of individuality,
and man would become as God. But we raise our solemn testimony
against the possibility of such a result, for we are persuaded that man
will progress infinitely, and will for ever retain his individuality. It is
by the spiritual body your standard is known. As when you stand before
a mirror and see your image reflected therein, so when you stand upon
the shores of spirit life your thoughts and actions here will mark your
individuality. The spiritual body varies to spirit vision in hue from a
sable blackness to a brilliancy so great as to resemble the sun at noon¬
day. According to the development of each individual spirit, so will
his garments indicate his advancement. The spiritual body is so nicely
adapted for its purpose, that if the inner principle be swayed by any
great emotion, it reflects the commotion externally. If a spirit’s aspira¬
tions be earthly his garments will assume a darker hue; but if his
desires be pure and holy he will appear more beautiful in consequence.
From sphere to sphere as you advance your garments will indicate your
progress. You may appear sanctimonious here, and enjoy a season of
prosperity, but when you step from the material body all will be revealed.
If you would hide, and long for a cloak to cover the blemishes of your
spiritual body, it will be all in vain. In the presence of your compeers
you will tremble, and not dare to look up. If your garments be dark as
a raven’s wing, you must by slow and painful process seek to render
them more beautiful. When you visit the ale-house and the gin-palace
you breathe an atmosphere which influences the spiritual body ; you
may not perceive evil resulting therefrom, but it would strike you with
terror were you thoroughly cognisant of the danger lurking in the
vicinity of such places. How often steady, well-meaning men, who
seemed likely to become useful members of society, have been utterly
ruined, and the fair promises of their youth been blasted by spiritual
contamination. But if you visit places where love and sympathy reign,
where each soul is labouring disinterestedly for the good of his fellows,
you will see emanations bright and beautiful, and receive an elevating
and uplifting influence. Therefore, let no evil lead you.
Do not fear. Go forth valiantly, and spirit friends will assist you.
Then when you feel the blissful consciousness that you have done your
duty you will have great reason to rejoice ; though you have not shaken
empires nor conquered nations, you will occupy as bright a place as
though you had wielded twice as much power. Then lay aside selfhood.
Let not your right hand know what your left hand doeth. Shun the pesti¬
lential atmosphere of vice where all is low and earthly; let the sympathetic
impulses of your soul go out to poor suffering humanity, and thus by
performing kindly deeds you will purify your spiritual natures; and when
you pass to spirit life your soul’s aspirations will rise in gratitude to
the Great Eternal, and you will ascend into higher regions of light and
glory. C. G. Oyston.
Hunwick, Willington, Durham.
[The publication of this letter has been accidentally delayed for some time.
—Ed.]  
A MESSAGE THROUGH WRITING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—The following is an extract from the late Mr. G. B. Prichard’s
spiritual communications, and was written Jan. 31st, 1864 :—
“Mortal men will yet know how spirit acts upon matter. Many
ignore the spirit, many possess a general belief in it, but when you come
to particulars, deny them. How strange, that the very living principle
without which they themselves would be nonentities should be so
treated; living, yet dying, because they both of them extinguish all
vitality within themselves. Hark ! the agonies of those who have been
self-destroyers attest the melancholy truth. Men may on earth ride
high in their chariots of self-derived intelligence, but their chariot wheels
are fast nearing the sea that will overwhelm them in its mighty waste.
May the nightmares under which the world is now labouring, before it
awakes from its feverish slumbers, soon terminate. Yet a little
may they toss their limbs, spell-bound in this unearthly sleep; yet a
little while may they cherish the delusions which conjure up the gaudy
scenes of a deluded fancy; soon will the paintings which have hitherto
captivated the cravings of a disordered imagination be annihilated before
the beams from the shining of the morning sun. Let the ingredients
work that compose the medicine for the soul, you will soon see the
signs of returning health. May many whose souls yearn for the truth
to be implanted in the hearts of men, see the mighty change which is
now working up to the surface of things. Without life, the Church is
now writhing because the principles of life are operating upon her, as a
drowning man is sensible of the painful struggles before his suspended
animation can be restored. May it yet be borne in mind that in all
these changes men are but instruments, some consciously, others with¬
out their knowledge, even in pursuing their schemes of earthly am¬
bitions, various as they are. Let those who are the conscious and
therefore the living instruments, pursue their course with good hearts
and untiring efforts: may they, in proportion to their exertions, reap
within themselves the fruits of their labours ; labours for the good of
the Church, self-sacrificers, yet all-acquirers at every step, breathing
the pure principles of life, and living on the Bread of Life which shall
build them into images and likenesses of their Lord.
“ May the tried man be the made man. Can the tried man murmur
when he sees in the world the tried man the real man, the others but
lifeless images of men ? May wild fancies be extinguished; may un¬
healthy cravings be corrected ; may delusions be succeeded by realities ;
and may the mighty machine of the State work well. I see the end
at which all the workings of the mass point. Tried men have been
tried to make them work their mighty work. The tried state is com¬
posed of tried men, and the tried state will emerge from all its clouds of
doubt and misgivings into the day of the sun shining in his strength.”
  F. C. P.
A CLAIRVOYANT VIEW OF A DEATH-BED SCENE.
Sir,—N oting Mr. Atkinson’s remarks some time ago on clairvoyance,
it may not be out of place to submit the following, which I was recently
shown clairvoyantly on the occasion of the separation of the natural
and spiritual bodies. '
After a long and painful illness of the subject of my remarks, I was
informed that she would shortly (as regards her spirit), very shortly
depart hence, as they, my guides, were aware of it, from what they
saw going on. They saw the spirit body being prepared for the change,
and I saw later on that it was, so to speak, collecting together, and
afterwards borne away upon the shoulders of a spirit under the direction
of another. The room occupied by the patient was filled by many
spirits, who joined hands, engaged in singing, and after the removal of
the spirit body I saw that the body of the patient presented the appear¬
ance of having been emptied from the chest upwards to the head;
there were two cords leading from the heart to the brain clearly
visible. The patient was in a semi-conscious state for about twenty-
four hours after.
This may serve to explain what to me was permitted to be seen,
although I do not pretend to be anything else than an inquirer into the
facts of our good cause. Layman.
;)] SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCES.
j 11 To the Editor of “ The Banner of Light."
\ (| Sir,— I have, at various times, seen spirits of the departed, whether
(| materialised or not I cannot say, but it appeared to me that I saw
/1 them with my natural eyes ; and at such times I would find myself
11 clairaudient, and would hold mental conversation with them. One or
|! | two instances I will relate.
In 1870 I was coming from Sag Harbour, Long Island, and, while
jj! waiting on the wharf at New London for the steamboat to take us
I! I across the Thames, I noticed several other men there, conversing on
| (i politics, all strangers to me, and I had not had a word of conversation
| | with any one ; but, strange as it may appear, when the boat was
1 (| about to start one of these men stepped to my right side, and said he
l/ i wanted a seat with me when we reached the cars, as he wished to
! i talk with me. At the same instant an apparition that I knew to
j j j be the spirit of his father approached me on my left side. I said—
i i “ Well, I am a great talker, and here is also your father who wants
i jj to talk with you.”
j j j “ My father! ” he exclaimed, ft My father is dead.”
j r j “ No, sir, he is not,” I replied,
i jj “I tell you he is,” said he.
j j I admitted that his body was dead, but that his spirit was then
j / i walking by my side.
! j j “If that is so,” said the man, “ will you describe my father ? ”
j j j I told him that his father was nearly a head taller than himself, and
i j j walked stooping somewhat forward ; described his dress, and in par-
j j j ticular a short, round-tailed jacket. The man replied—
“ Well, that is all true, but the jacket he called his spencer.”
j j So after telling him what a pet his father always made of him, and
j j j many things that I knew nothing about, while riding in the cars with
jjl him an hour or more, I explained the philosophy and advantage of
j j j spirit intercourse. He left me, apparently deeply interested in the
i j subject, saying that he would search into it, if God spared his life,
j i And now I ask what but that man’s father could have influenced
j j j him to thus approach me, that he might thus be induced to search
j j j into Spiritualism ?
j j At another time, three or four years since, I entered the Boston and
(|ij j Worcester Depdt to take the second train for Hopedale, and, as I
j j j stood with satchel in hand looking at train cars that were backing into
jjj the dep6fc, a man, whom I never saw before nor since, spoke to me,
j j j and asked if that was the train that was going to Milford. I said—
jt j j “ Yes, sir, and I am going in it.”
j / j He then asked me if I lived at Milford, and if I knew Mr. Ballou,
i ji the founder of the Hopedale Community; and many other questions
j | j regarding persons and things in Hopedale, as I had told him I was
j) j living there. He then went on to state that twenty years prior to that
i j j date he lived in Milford, and felt deeply interested in the Hopedale
j > j Community, but that he went West and joined a community (he told
j (j me where and what), and added that he had met with bad luck,
iji bad lost all his property, and had lately lost four children,
iji While I was listening to the man’s history of himself, I felt a touch
|f on the shoulder, which drew my attention to a rather tall, elegant
ijj lady, dressed in pongee, without hoopskirts, whom I knew to be the
i ji spirit of a wife of the man I was listening to. She was looking on
i j j him with apparent interest, and wanted to converse with him; and, as
i j i the man said he had lost four children, I said, with strong emphasis—•
,1 j j ; “ You have lost a wife, too.”
: ! The man replied, “ No, I have not; my wife is living now.”
July 5, 1878.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
This assertion seemed to give me a stunner for a moment, but I ]
turned to the woman and asked her this mental question—
r Do you assert yourself to be this man’s fir$t wife ? ”
The answer came, “ I do, positively.”
I then turned to the man and said—
“ Sir, here is a woman stands by my side—you do not see her, I
suppose it is a spirit—and she asserts that she was your first wife, !
and she must have been your wife, or expected to marry you when j
young.
To this the man replied in a harsh way—
“Well, I had a first wife, but we parted before she died.”
Richard Walker.
Cambridgeport, Mass., 1878.
MEDIUMSHIP AND MORALITY. j|
From the “ Banner of Light.” ) i
A thoughtful and able correspondent of the Banner of Light (Mr. j 1
George A. Bacon, in issue of March 23rd) has discussed the “ Relation j |
of Mediumship to Morality.” His remarks, while pertinent and im- j j
portant, were by no means exhaustive of the subject. The writer wishes )|
to direct attention to one or two additional points, of much moment to jy
both mediums and investigators, as well as to students of ethics. j I
It is unquestionably true, as the correspondent referred to has urged, (j
that the peculiarity which confers the faculty of mediumship, of some (j
types at least, is physiological or constitutional, rather than moral or j i
saintly, and hence that mediumship of certain phases may coexist with i (j
a low grade j of morals, and even with the grossest immorality. Its j | j
essential requisite is that there should exist a certain condition of j j j
sensitiveness, pliability, or impressibility in the physical and mental j (j
organism which is usually the result of hereditary influences. Not j j I
only, then, may spirits of a base, mischievous, or malignant character j) j
act through pliable instruments of like quality with themselves, but j (!
exalted beings may doubtless sometimes make use of channels not 11}
altogether pure, when better are not available, to transmit their heaven- j j i
born thoughts. (Possibly they may not see so great differences in the j | j
moral qualities or different media as we mortals are wont to imagine.)
It is also true, as stated, that all serious investigators, all sincere : j j
lovers of truth, greatly prefer the services of those mediums who ever j |
manifest a high tone of both morality and spirituality. Only such can j j!
be confided in to report to us truthfully the messages of our departed 11 j
friends, and to render faithfully the lessons of supernal wisdom that j j |
may be designed for us. Such, too, may reasonably be considered less j j j
liable to the approaches and impositions of mischievous, deceptive, and j (i
evil-disposed denizens of the other world. * Ml
But it seems to the writer that no sufficient consideration is ordinarily j)
given to the fact that the morality and the spirituality of mediums are | (j
liable to be greatly affected by the thoughts and feelings of those who j j j
approach them and those who are about them. I f
A little reflection must suffice to show that the very sensitiveness or j j!
peculiar susceptibility which renders a person capable of being easily j j!
acted upon and controlled by minds disembodied—*.<?., spirits—must j | j
also render the same person liable to be affected and influenced by minds j (j
in the body. That mediums can be and are thus influenced is probably j j j
well known to every experienced investigator of psychical phenomena. | (i
It may be done by those who, either purposely or thoughtlessly, fix their ! |
minds upon the medium, and even by those who do not intend it— j) i
always provided a certain relation of rapport exists between the two, or 1 |f
a certain relation of chemical adaptability between their personal aural j j
spheres, of which neither may be aware. When this relation happens j) j
to exist or to be established between two persons, even at a distance, the ! \ j
sensitive or susceptible one will find him or herself thinking, acting, or i ) j
expressing the thoughts of the other, often without knowledge or j j j
suspicion of their origin. ■ \[ \
More than this, every person who goes to a medium or stance is j) j
doubtless attended by a throng of spirits, most likely of his own type I (i
and moral grade, to whose influence and will-power, under certain i j j
conditions above indicated, the sensitive instrument is liable to be I } J
subjected. I i i
It is thus plain that all mediums and sensitives are exposed to j j j
influences and impulses from a variety of sources, often conflicting in j) j
their tendency, affecting more or less powerfully their perceptions, their j <
convictions, and their acts. Hence the fickleness, the seeming whim- j)
sicalities, and the erratic conduct so common among them. If inex- i)
perienced and undiscriminating, they (and their admirers) may 1 \
honestly suppose that all these impulses and suggestions came from j j
disembodied spirits, when in fact they may emanate largely from minds j j
in the body instead. Or they may be ascribed to exalted, angelic beings, j j
and thought worthy of devoutest heed, when in reality they may proceed | /
from mischievous or evil-designing demons. j (
There are sensitives and mediums, of large experience and acute ! j |
spiritual perceptions, who have learned to critically analyse and trace j)
to their source all doubtful suggestions or impulses that come to them, i (I
and they claim to frequently find these to be of merely mundane origin j > |
—the result of mental action or emotion in persons near or remote, who i j I
happen to be at the moment in rapport with them, though perhaps quite i (j
unconscious of the fact. It is undoubtedly a psychical law, that thinking j |
of a person, whether near or remote, actually projects a subtle influence j (j
toward that person, which is likely, in certain conditions of suscepti- i (j
bility, to produce a sensible effect for good or for evil, according to the j )j
nature and quality of the thoughts projected. | H
But the special point sought to be urged in this paper is this—that a Hi
keenly susceptible medium, having no dishonest or unworthy motive, is i j]
liable to be prompted, perhaps I should say impelled, by the mental j j |
action of surrounding persons, in or out of the body, to acts of deception i j
or other immoralities.
If, for example, a pseudo-investigator goes to a seance with a pre¬
formed conviction of fraud fixed in his mind, or with his head full of
suspicions and imaginings as to how this or that trick might be per¬
formed, there is, at least, a possibility that a genuine medium may be
impelled, either consciously or unconsciously, by the psychical force of
that mind, to perform or attempt the very trick suspected and thus sug¬
gested. Such a pretended investigator, by the very nature of the case,
is mentally positive, forceful, aggressive; while the medium is, by the
necessities of mediumship, passive, negative, and therefore easily acted
upon. The well-known experiments of biologists, psychologists, &c.,
upon impressible subjects render it altogether probable that a medium
may under such circumstances be made to think and feel himself for the
time to be a trickster and impostor, and hence to act like one—perhaps
even confess to being one. If we add to this the strong probability that
every pre-determined or evil-surmising investigator is accompanied
by an invisible host of his own type, bent perhaps on disgracing the
medium, and bringing the truth into disrepute, then we have present
all the conditions necessary to result in an apparent attempt at “ im¬
posture,” with an “ exposure ” and a first-class sensation in the anti-
Spiritualistic ranks.
It is by no means affirmed that all alleged frauds and exposures have
been brought about in this way, but there are reasons for believing that
some have been; and it is clear that such results are liable to occur
under well-known physical law. It is well, therefore, that all profes¬
sional “ exposers ” and “ detectives,” as well as investigators who pride
themselves on their sharpness, should beware that they do not deceive
and impose upon themselves, besides doing a great wrong to innocent
persons who come under their psychological power.
But it is submitted that in all justice the responsibility of moral
lapses, if such they can be called, brought about in the manner de¬
scribed, belongs chiefly, if not wholly, to the active and positive, agents
—the pretended but prejudiced investigators and their allies—rather
than to the negative and comparatively helpless instruments.
Of course it is impossible to make bigoted and determined opponents
see this, ignorant as they are of psychical laws; but all persons of
candour, {who desire to know the exact truth, and to do justice, will
take these facts into consideration, and be charitable in their judgments
accordingly.
It is true that intentional tricksters and fraudulent persons may
wrongfully attempt to shield themselves from deserved condemnation,
under the plea here offered; but it does not belong to them, and will
be of no avail with their own consciences. But where a medium has
borne a well-established character for truthfulness, honesty, and good
intent, it is always fairly presumable that any seeming sudden lapse
from rectitude is the result of strong, overbearing psychical influences,
from sources in or out of the body, brought to bear in specially weak
and sensitive moments. And even in cases where mediums once honest
have been led to enter upon courses of deliberate fraud, as would seem
to have been the fact in some instances, it is highly probable they may
have been first prompted and incited thereto by the mental action of
suspicious investigators, who threw around them an atmosphere full of
fraudulent suggestions, which, lodging in plastic minds, and stimulated
by hopes of pecuniary gain, have borne their natural fruit.
Doubtless other forms of immorality besides fraud have been induced
in some mediums by similar means. We now and then hear of sensual
and bad men who boast of their power over mediums of the other sex,
and who affect to believe that all such are little better than prostitutes.
Such wretches glory in what should be their deepest shame. A crea¬
ture who can take advantage of the impressibility of a sensitive
woman, made keenly susceptible by the touch of angels for the holy
work of transmitting truth from higher spheres to mankind—the
wretch who can take advantage of this impressibility to seek the gratifi¬
cation of his unhallowed desires, is unworthy the designation of man,
and deserves the execration of all human kind. It is hoped that such
are few; but it is plain that their victims, whether few or many,
should be judged with all the leniency and charity which are due to
those who are “ more sinned against than sinning.”
But our subject expands, and points to important practical lessons
for both mediums and investigators, which must be postponed to
another paper. A. E. N.
A Model Colony.—The following is taken from Forty Years of
American Life, by Mr. T. L. Nichols, M.D,:—“ There is a model
colony called Yineland, in Pennsylvania. It was founded by the Hon.
C. K. Landis. He was the proprietor of fifty square miles of wild
land, covered with the primeval forest. In 1862 he determined to
form a settlement upon this land. One of the first regulations of
the colony was that there should be no intoxicating liquors sold on
that fifty square miles, save for medicine, until it was demanded
by a majority of the inhabitants. The population increased
rapidly, and engaged chiefly in agriculture, and especially in
raising grapes, peaches, &c. The whole region is now a beautiful
garden, with pretty cottages, schools, churches, and about twelve
thousand inhabitants. The poor-rates for the whole place, chiefly for
the maintenance of vagrants from other districts, are £80. There is no
policeman, and only one constable, elected yearly, who receives no
salary. His income from fees is from £5 to £10 a year. Vineland has
a hundred and seventy miles of roads and streets, and you may ride
through all this domain among orchards, gardens, vineyards, fertile
fields, and smiling villages, and see everywhere happy homes and an
industrious and happy population. What is there to prevent the
formation of a thousand just such colonies? Why may not a whole
continent be covered over with Vinelands, with beautiful colonies or
settlements, filled with industrious, intelligent, temperate, happy
people ? Why may it not be everywhere | on earth as it is in
heaven ? ’ Why not ? ” *
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 5, 1878.
THE RELIGION OF GOLDEN DEEDS.
BY J. T. MARK LEY, AUTHOR OF “ STUDIES OF CHARACTER.”
Tbue religion is eminently comprehensive. It is vast,
many-sided, and profound. It includes every worthy motive,
and developes all the best emotions of the soul. Intellec¬
tually considered, it is wisdom and goodness rendered
artistic by sweetness of disposition, eloquence, short prayers,
musical rapture, and the encouragement of holy aspirations.
Under its sway the passions become obedient to the highest
types of individual conduct and experience. In its best
forms it is as humane and as alluring as Christ’s Sermon
on the Mount. Many things done in the name of religion
are confessedly irreligious, and many acts performed in secular
life are holy beyond dispute. When. Calvin sanctioned the
death of Servitus through doctrinal spite, religion became,
in that case, over-heated, and had a bad smell. In Scotland
a pig may not grunt or a child smile on the Sabbath; and
certain stern theologians would rebuke the song of birds j
and declaim against the healthy fragrance of flowers. Pure I
New Testament Christianity is not so repulsive in form. The j
deeds it recommends are more enlightened and benevolent. I) |
It may be that no darling creed is advanced by the j
exemplary conduct of the self-denying monks who carry on |
the famous Hospice of St. Bernard, amid perils peculiar to
the Alpine regions. Perhaps the goodly housewife is not
actuated by any special abstract theological dogma when <
she throws crumbs to the hungry robin during the extremi¬
ties of mid-winter. The Samaritan, of a soft heart, who
lifts a helpless sot from the gutter, or whispers a rebuke to
some cruel costermonger, does not stay to recite the thirty-
nine articles of his belief as a prologue to his worthy mission
of love. Nor is the hand without consecration which carries
a loaf to the widow’s hut, because it lingers not to sign some
elaborate confession of faith. These observations may sound
strange to the bitter sectarian, who only seeks the selfish
propagation of his pet theory, to the neglect of those human
considerations which genuine piety is calculated to entail.
But surely religion was meant to lessen human sorrow, in jj
its varying growth, as well as regenerate mankind. Ac- j
cording to our modern notions, the restoration of an old j
cathedral, the systematic arrangement of a pulpit homily, | j
or the gentlemanly status of the clergy, in Church or Dis- j j
sent, is of more importance than the domestic well-being of |
orphans in distress. Intellectual pride, the secretion of cash, j
and the obvious vanity of denominational prestige, are the
reigning passions of the age.
Is this the religion of the great Nazarene who sought
out the maimed, the halt, the blind, and the [moneyless;
whose Gospel is no less a grand humanitarian scheme, anti¬
cipating the wants and sufferings of society, than a match¬
less system of probationary morals, at once rational, neces¬
sary, and sacred, adapted to every tribe and clime ? The
Christ of the Scriptures practised the highest forms of self-
denying benevolence. His every act was an impressive
drama of brotherly love. Human sorrow in its every phase
was the theme of His consideration; the common wrecks of
society continually felt the outflow of His wisdom, charity,
and skill. His consorts were the poor and needy; He
advanced truth by way of parable; was never selfish, when
most dogmatic ; and, as if to rebuke many of His narrow¬
minded disciples, He made the proclamation of His theory
subservient to the performance of golden deeds. It is not
recorded that He constantly spoke of our “ beloved denomi¬
nation,” but the beatitudes pronounced from the slope of the
hill would favour nobility of spirit wherever it may be found.
They that are not against me are jor me, was His broad
motto; and He taught the forgiveness of transgressions to
more than the seventieth act of disobedience. j
"What a multum in parvo system of ethics ! what a feasible j
code of commandments! Talk of Mahomet and his subtle j
statutes, or of Confucius and his involved philosophy— j
surely the grander teachings of Christ proclaim Him the |
better prophet, the wiser lawgiver, the inspired of God! j
But let us more closely examine Christianity in its relation I
to human sorrow. Either from the desperate frailties of j
being, or from the unavoidable accidents of society, mankind j
is subject to innumerable unrecorded phases of distress, and j)
many intense groanings of spirit. Life’s path to some is I
exceptionally rugged. The disposition may be noble, but
|| the flesh is invariably weak. Hence we require a religion
j that is remedial, considerate, and essentially unselfish—a
balm that will soothe, an affection that will bind; a beau¬
tiful charity that gives bread and not a stone. Such is
Christianity in its purer development. Its mission is not
j 11 only to save but to bless—to cheer us on earth as well as
||| point us to heaven. Whatever our prejudices in reference to
|(| the Papal Church, her charitable machinery and influence
||| in the matter of humane effort must command respect. The
| I poor in Catholic countries receive commendable attention;
K | the sick hear the whisperings of consolation, and the down-
| | cast are sweetly beckoned to a sunnier path that they may
| I taste the transient but desirable raptures of existence.
| j In this particular the Reformed Churches might learn a
| | noble lesson from a dogmatic communion. The Romish
I | “Sisters of Mercy” are not, unfrequently, angels in dis-
j j guise; their well-known “failures” notwithstanding. Their
| j heroic self-denial, and overflowing sympathy cannot possibly
I j be of the devil. They brave many insults, conquer un-
i i counted dangers, and often kindle a sunbeam in the lone
| j chambers of the dying. Is such active piety to be despised
| | on account of the system with which it is connected? Will
| | not such feats of charity hide a multitude of ecclesiastical
| sins ? Surely religion is better represented and more
honoured by practical deeds of philanthropy than by bitter
fighting for orthodox tenets, and the not unusual savage rivalry
of contentious creeds. Father Matthew exhibited a grander
piety, by his living Christianity, which blessed mankind,
than most of the contemporary divines of his day, who read
long prayers and pronounced stereotyped precepts to the
healthy, respectable sinners of the cultured circle. Howard’s
conception of Christianity betrayed the genius of genuine
feeling; his prison visits were a strong argument in favour
of Christ’s religion. Clarkson personified brotherly love.
He was the incarnation of righteous sentiment. Such
characters promote truth by advancing human happiness,
and recommend Christianity by a special pleading that is not
only consistent, but unconquerable.
As education advances, all the Churches—whether Catholic,
Anglican, or Dissentient—will be judged more by the good
I works they accomplish than by the abstract doctrines which
| they may happen to teach. Theology—cut and dried—must
prove its claims to universal attention through the useful
j attractions of a large and beautiful example in unselfish
j aims. Whatever sneering Materialists may say in their
wrath against the unmatched moral ethics of Christ, the
breezy religion of the New Testament is capable of the
loftiest spirituelle power and results. As Charles Dickens
says, Christianity, pure and simple, is not to be confounded
with some men’s narrow interpretation of it. May we not
add that, in the face of all their institutional faults, the
Churches of Christendom have the means to regenerate,
soothe, and bless mankind. Works of benevolence, refine¬
ment of disposition, and the inspirations of artistic and
intellectual pursuits may not stand as a complete test of
moral goodness ; but such sweet deeds help to make a
system of laughing piety possible.
( 71, Penton-place, London, S.E.
Virtue pardons the wicked, as the sandal-tree perfumes the axe
which strikes it.—Saadi.
An Advance.—A writer in the Churchman says:—“ Your corres¬
pondent, ‘ B. T. H. M.,’ thinks Bishop Doane has ‘ made a lapsus
pennce'm saying that the risen body of our Lord | passed through the
closed doors, as through the unmoved stone,’ on the morning of the re¬
surrection. He evidently takes it for granted that the stone was rolled
away when our Lord rose ; but this is by no means necessary. The
two events were doubtless separated in point of time by several hours,
the resurrection occurring first. The removal of the stone was in con¬
sequence of the resurrection, not vice versa. Certainly the stone was
not rolled away to give our Lord’s body egress from the tomb. His risen
body was no longer a natural but a spiritual body, and having the power
and properties of a spirit, the stone could be no obstruction in its way.
It could have passed through miles of solid rook as readily as through
the air.”—Reiigio-Philosophical Journal.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
H. M*—The alleged Eastern permanent miracle of the ever-burning lamp is
so direct a violation of the law of the conservation of energy, that no
physicist is at all likely to try the experiment. But if those who give the
details, prove their own words by making the lamp, serious attention would
willingly be given to the subject.
July 5, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work, containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Od.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM. by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE'; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on SpirituaUsm. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist’’was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants wnnwonirt
not cheat him. The question as to the ifenftMU*# oi tne narraciyes
therefore navimwa itwlf down to the question of the reliability
“foiS.l.Ss-anco, tvMok, to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ II. „ •
The Seer. „ III. „ .
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. ,. V. ,» . • .
Marie Staff. An Autobiography oi A J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the Peop.i
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . .
s. d.
15 0
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
5
7
2
3
3
7
3
7
2
3
7
6
7
7
5
5 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24 0
Rehgions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spibitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Wav, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
Ti'e Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
yith Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
„ Legze D.D  . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted b> Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hmd,; oi, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL D 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Gollyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpa In
three vols. ... ... IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced iy Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free 1®, Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
"As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of is priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritnalistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual ippearanees are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his view®. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible. manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PAT,PARLE OF’ IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter HI.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revo. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God-
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opimons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of SpirituaUsm.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life —Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe —James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London: W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-steeet.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely hound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Variey, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers ,on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot he had separately. Price,
carnagelpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, il 19s,
London; W. H. Harbison 38, Great Russell-street, W-9,
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new hook by
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYOHOGRAPHY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OE CONTENTS.
List of Works hearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation oi
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Rnssell-street.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful hook to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given througa
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Cxon) ”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O I Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumshipof
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the tranee-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treheme)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through th«
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Yay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burne—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—"Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doe.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon."—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. ByCarolineA. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.’’
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (EnnesfaUen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science, By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
Wallace, F.R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
 W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, W.C. 
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ’’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.'
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 5, 1878,
A
NEW ERA.
H
E
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
EJiO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating Arinin.'’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
E
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact wen known.”
i NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes: —
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
2£N0’3 FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
guaranteed to BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable Saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the Jliices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or, foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, * and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent term.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
withyour FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
W
ORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
erless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Scle Agent for Parts—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings. .
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. >The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-hewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joel”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobhlejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.1
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enj oy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the fminiest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooolejaw Ballads:—“No:one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result."
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforeed humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of tho nannihal niuh, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant ti,s ton. and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
' “ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology) ; a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H, Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabae was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
. From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power ana beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor qf
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price Ss., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensation*
-—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeri c
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Peelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
Iv •—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
^?+„Ey/s-oVlsl0n..0r Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy Absent Person*
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—^Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeera—
Extasis—Extaticsn'ot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasie
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals^ etc., on the Human
Erame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—It*
Characters—Difficulties of the SuWect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odyiic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Eelt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to he Expected.
CHAPTER XIIPhenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Oases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Wakmg
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Oases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Throw’1
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the ^leeP
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perceptiop .°f Tune
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retr^yision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man. with Gases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor- by Beveridge & Go., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W, Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
