RSGUSTERBD AS A NEWSPAPER.
0^ ^dl^>fcis<-
(DItai txmn^bf toit^ m <&xmt §nMtt.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : il, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont, BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI : Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 22s, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 9:8, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 271. (Yol. XL—No. 18.) LONDON: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contenta.
The Philosophy of Temptation. A Trance Address through
Mrs. Richmond’s Mediumship 205
Anne Vial’s Case    206
An Outspoken Judge  208
A Haunted Spot - 208
Slate-Writing and Form Phenomena  209
The Materialisation of a Spirit 210
A.Seance with Mr. Williams. By the Baroness Adelma
von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand)  210
Forthcoming Meetings   210
“ For the First Time.” (Poetry.) By Florence Marryat 211
The Victorian Association of Spiritualists 211
Strange Visions 212
An Indian “ Medicine Dance ”   212
Review:—The London Dialectical Society 213
The Charity Organisation Society  ... 213
Poetry:—A Cry from India 214
Correspondence:—Astrology—^Metaphorical Expression—
A Personal Explanation—Dreams and their Philo¬
sophy... ...   214
An Apparition Seen at the Moment of the Death of the
Body 216
Answers to Correspondents 216
Paragraphs:—Dr. Slade's Movements, 206; Miss Kisling-
bury in America, 206; Spiritualism in Dalston, 208;
A Mysterious Light on* the Pacific Coast, 209; The
Religion We Want, 210 ; Mr. Morse's Appointments,
211; Mr. J. M. Peebles in the East, 211; Mesmerism,
211; Miss Wood's Mediumship, 211; Mr. Colville’s
Meetings, 211; A Social Problem Solved, 213; A Lec¬
ture at Stockton-on-Tees, 213 ; Brixton Psychological
Society, 214; Magic, 214; Spirit Influence, 215; The
Materialistic Difficulty, 215; Spiritualism in New¬
castle, 215; The National Association of Spiritualists,
216 ; Form Manifestations 216
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rnHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. O. O. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George O. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
-man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
IsKam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Mariyat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Garter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.).; Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies,'D.D.. author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D: Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martlieze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents In the United .'Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Av.e Maria-lane, St. Paul's-ohurchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Naziohale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street.. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearfiey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
■should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-stroet, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for November, 1877.
Saturday, 3rd.—Inspirational Address at 4 p m., Mr.
Colville, medium.
Tuesday, 6f/i.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Medium,
Mr. O. E. Williams.
Wednesday, 7(7t.—Soiree Musicale, at 38, Great Russell-
street. ‘Tea and Coffee 6.30 to 7.45.
Music to commence at 8 p.m. precisely.
Friday, dth.—Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 10f/j.—Inspirational Address at 4 p.m. Medium,
Mr. Colville.
Monday, I2f7t.—Fortkiohtly Discussion Meeting;, at
7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, \Zth.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.80 p.m.
Wednesday, 14fA.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Medium,
Mr. Williams.
Friday, 1677t.—Sea/nce Committee, at 5.80 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committed, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 17(7;.—Inspirational Address at 4 p.m. Medium,
Mr. Colville.
Tuesday, 20th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Soiree Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
Wednesday, list.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 23rd.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 24f7i.—Inspirational Address, at 4 p.m. Medium,
Mr. Colville.
Monday, 26(7t.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.30 pm.
Wednesday, 28th.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, ZOth.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee at
6.30 p.m.
SOIREES.
The first Soiree will he held on the 7th of November, and
will be opened by an address from Mr. Calder. It will be a
special entertainment with music and recitations. Double
tickets, 3s.; single tickets, 2s. each.
NEW MEMBERS.
Subscriptions paid before the end of the year by members
elected after this date will clear them up to the end of the year
1878.
EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
Chairman—Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E.
The Research Committee having expended the sums en¬
trusted to them, will he glad to receive subscriptions towards
the objects they have in view.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETING.
The Research Committee propose to resume the series of
Fortnightly Discussions at 38, Great Russell-street, on Monday,
November 12th, at 7.30 p.m., and to continue them on the
second and fourth Mondays of each month until further notice:
An announcement of papers promised will shortly be made.
W. Stainton-Moses, M.A, Hon. Sec. qf Committee.
SEANCES FOR ENQUIRERS.
Seances for Enquirers are held at 38, Great Russell-street,
at 8 p.m., every Wednesday (except the 7 th of November, in¬
stead of which one will beheld on Tuesday, the 6th). Medium,
Mr. O. E. Williams. Enquirers admitted by free tickets on the
recommendation of a member, or by personal application to
the secretary. Members, with one friend, Is for each person.
Number limited to twelve.
INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS.
Mr. J. W. Colville gives an Inspirational Address gratis at
38, Great Russell-street, at 4 p.m., every Saturday. Subject
chosen by the audience. Questions invited. A poem, also on
a subject chosen by the audience, at the close. Admisssion
to members and friends, Is. each.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., So., apply
to—   H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SkO.
LANGHAM HALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London. W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjects chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved, is,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
THE FOURTH SESSION
Will commence on Thursday, 1st November, 1877, at 8.30 p.m.,
when the President will deliver his usual Opening Address.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
 WiUesden, N.W. 
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-read, Cardifi. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
The soul, and how it found me ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
 Tinsley Brothers, Publishers. 
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
he had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Camp den-
hill, Kensington.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince's Salon, and the Duke's Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
'MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, ‘‘HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &o., &c.;
post free, seven stamps. 
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O!
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stooks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 2, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkileld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Qerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond Q-., M.S.Tel.E., 6, I,oughborough-road
North, Brlxton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-Street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Bogers, E. £>., Bose-vllla, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Dei’by House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd.. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Bichmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Livei’pool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Bev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, B., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E,
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
•Moses, Bev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Bev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Begent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Bichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Beimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Bichmond.
Bogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Scr'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Bedcliife-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge.Mrs. G. N.. 84. Bedcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, B. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Bandolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. II., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Bliss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
With all, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, E. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Lcuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Bussia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Bussie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Mimed Eassim Pacha, Khan de Eassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
Phe Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Eue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonei Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Bussian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Bichmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Bailway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Biko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey In Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor'of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Eichardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Bussell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634,Bace-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A. .
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vcmon-street. Philadelphia,U,S.A.
J. II. GledstaneSjEsq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Bue de Bocrot, Paris.
Bev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 28$, Chaussee St. Plerre,Etterbeck, Brussel
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de PUnlon, 67, Bue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Eue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq., M.D.,Unlon Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Bue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivah, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W. '  '
Captain E. F. Burton, F.B.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S., Eosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Eich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Bue St. Honors, Paris.
W. jS.Oodbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut,' Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
’ J. W. Day, Esq.; 9,-Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Dehbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. B. Hallock, 54, Denblgh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W. •
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Strath, Modling, 18, Brulher-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Bue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Bue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society,Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., S3, Sigdon-road, Dalston-Iane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola,, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirlta Central de la Bepublica Mexicana. President—
Senor Eefugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
pRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
VX will be published as soon as Mrs. Vi eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolner, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Garter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons ; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. ALLEN, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Go.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Go.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY AND Rich, London Spirii-
ualist Office.,   
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.  
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
npHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
-L describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.  
T>EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JAl logiques, fondS par Allan Kardec,_ appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M, Leymarie.
. MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S” CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends,
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHErT”
Test medium and clairvoyant,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
SPIRITUAL HEALING
.. .. . . BY AN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQ., LONDON, W.O.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment in first instance by letter; terms as per
agreement.
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, LONDON, W.O.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed , to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St HonorC,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing- and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develops mediums.
PSYCHOMETRY.—For delineation of cha¬
racter and information on development consult (if by
letter enclose photo and 10s. 6d. as fee) Mr. J. Skipsey, Ash-
ington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland.
'RS. S. W. FLETCHER, the mesmeric
_ healer, 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Hours,
12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appointment.
Nervous diseases a specialty.
TO MESMERISTS.—For Sale, a few copies
of Lang’s work on Mesmerism; its History, Phenomena
and Practice. Edinburgh, 1843. Post free, 4s. 6d. Many other
scarce books on animal magnetism. List sent. Lachlan, 22a,
King-street, St. James’s, London, S.W.
WANTED, the address of one or two per¬
sons who have been Mesmerised at lectures, or else¬
where, Remuneration given. Address (by letter only), J.
Cranford, 8, Wells-street, Oxford-street.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for la., post free, or 500for Is. 6d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
Fob, distribution at public meetings,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments,' and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’ ’
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 6s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London,
jt n m If 9 ti ^jtujiiuftiwt,
VojjUjvie J^even. Number Eiqhteejh.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2nd, 1877.
THE PHILOSOPHY OP TEMPTATION. j
A TKANCE ADDRESS THROUGH MRS. RICHMOND’S MEDIUMSHIP. I )
If there were no temptation; if the passions were not
prone to cany the spirit downward, instead of the spirit j
carrying the body forward ; if the influence of matter upon j
the human spirit were not the only thing which the human i ?
spirit has to conquer in the universe, then life itself is a ||
failure, and a race of angels might have been planted here I
whose mild existence would have shone with reflected light, j)
like the moon, and whose positive powers would never have |j
been unfolded from within. j \
The responsibility comes here; that while you acknowledge i)
the law and its universal application; while you are aware ||
that you did not create the principle nor its consequences; j j
while you are fully mindful that the infinite purposes move j
on without your bidding, and possibly without your aid, still j
when it enters the consciousness of any human being that j
a certain course of conduct is the highest, and that human |)
being fails to carry out that course of conduct, he having | >
had the enlightenment, and having had the knowledge, ex- j s
periences the two-fold penalty of not only violating the law, j \
and suffering, but of violating that other law for which-Christ |
says there is no forgiveness—the Holy Ghost, the spirit !
within, the warning voice that does know and cannot impel j
you to its bidding. For this sin there is no forgiveness ; it j
may be outgrown ; the penalty of it may be after long years j
or centuries overcome, but that conscience which rebukes j
the spirit, no one can take away from you. The physician |
may heal the pain externally, or even morally ; if you sin j
ignorantly there may be some one to soothe you, but no one i <
can take from you the sting of the consciousness of doing J
what you knew was not your highest duty, or of violating the j;
moral law when you had the knowledge of that law in your
mind. You are yourself, therefore, in that degree amenable,
even though you did not create the condition of weakness !
which caused you to yield to the temptation. We think the j
dividing line is very clear. It is not that you are responsible j
to the Deity : it is not the Deity punishes you, but it is that j
you have a sterner monitor within, which is your own soul, j
to which you are responsible, and that will hold you to a |
rigorous account for every violation when the knowledge of j
the law is in your mind. You become your own judge. The |
judgment sent becomes your own soul, and the conscious- j
ness of your own life. You sit in daily judgment upon your¬
self; and when the full consciousness comes of the entire j
moral law it is not possible for the human being to j
violate it.
Thus violence to the moral law and the accusation which j
follows become the strong chords upon which the spirit rises |
to self-con quest and victory. Thus violence and the know¬
ledge of it become the surety to the fact by which you know, j
not from the experience of others but from your own, that j
victory is possible. Why is it that the penitent sinner is I
hailed into the flock ? Why is it that all theology is preaching !
to the lost sheep, instead of those who remain in the fold? j
Why is it that the one who has well-nigh gone out into !
utter darkness is received with greater welcomings than those !
who have wandered not from the light ? It is because of I
the greater victory which is evident when they do return. It j
is because of the fact that having more to overcome, when |
they do overcome it becomes a greater triumph over
matter. It is because the soul that is untempted is measur- j
ably untried. Fortunate if the soul be strong enough not |
to yield to the temptation; but more fortunate still if, j
yielding one hundred or a thousand times, there comes a j
time when the soul is victorious after all. You have heard |
the story of the ant climbing the hill with a heavy load, |
until at last nine hundred and ninety-nine times had the j
persevering little insect tried to climb the large hill, which i
was the small hill of its abode; the thousandth time did the
ant succeed. Were all those other strivings in vain? We
think not. Would the result have been any better, or as
good, to the individual perseverance and testing of the
insect if it had succeeded the first time? We would not
advise a voluntary letting go of the foothold ; we would not
advise a voluntary plunging down the hill. It is impossible.
This is never done voluntarily. People never commit sin
with the entire volition of their minds; they do it in spite of
it; they do it ignorantly; they do it because of some weak¬
ness. The spirit is not strong enough to take them up to
the exact point that they wish to reach. They try, they
fail; they try again and fail again, and all the time the
moral strength is preparing for the last, final effort, which
will succeed.
It is our business to know the law of that success, not to
criticise the tests of strength which are given. It is our
business to adapt ourselves to the sunlight, to the thunder,
the tempest and the storms of earth, not to criticise the
arrangement of them. It is the test of the skill of the
mariner if he ploughs the seas, if he explores unknown
regions, not if he grumble at the ocean, and try to wipe it
out of existence. It is the test of human strength if,
battling with material elements that are blind and deaf, and
have no voice, man has made out of them the great voice of
commerce, of national existence, of life here below, and
shall further rescue from these dumb creations the eloquence
of his own soul.
So out of this darkness that men call sin ; out of this
ocean which men call evil; out of this shadow which human
beings must needs be placed against as the background of
the picture of life, if there spring into being a bright-orbed
flame of the soul, which, as in some of Rembrandt’s pictures,
is all the more distinct from contrast, shall we find fault with
the Divine Artist, who has shaped it that the soul may bring
forth before the darkened ground of life the strong picture of
holiness and faith and trust ?
The lesson of sin is to overcome it. The degradation of
sin is to fall and feel that it cannot be overcome. That evil
or wrong-doing which brings despair to the mind is the last
form of moral disease; but that evil or wrong-doing which
always leaves a chance for succour and for hope, becomes the
strength upon which the soul finally rises. This is why all
forms of punishment adopted by humanity for the final
offence are not the best forms. According to human teach-
! ing you send the soul hopeless into the word of future
I existence. Any door of human life that bars the gateway of
] hope becomes the prison-house for a time of that soul.
Let us have a moral economy which knows where evil is,
! understands what wrong is, but includes in its beneficence
| the possibility of escape and the strength which comes to the
| soul after overcoming the wrong. Let us have a divine
| theology which comprehends the necessity of tempests and
| storms, but likewise leaves us the panacea that follows the
| tempest and the storm; and that scathing, after which comes
j the kindly benediction of fresh flowers and new fruitage.
| .Let us include the whole moral problem, not half, or a tenth,
or a thousandth part of it. Let us consider that a human
being is not simply a creature, a machine, but is a portion
of the Divine Life breathing in and through matter, to.
whom also is given a portion of the responsibility of life,
i You do not like it if you are the machine of your employer
I merely. Man chafes under the rod of another man’s rule
| If he takes you into his confidence you are a portion of his
| establishment; you are interested and responsible with him;
I it increases your cares, but it increases your self-respect also,
j The Divine Mind has taken humanity into partnership on
| the moral principle ; you are co-partners—better than if you
1 were tools, better than if you were lessees, better than if
206
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 2, 1877.
you were mere children to be taught and schooled, punished
and rewarded without volition. This divine co-partnership
that links your souls with the Divine Mind gives you also
a portion of the responsibility of life. Never mind if it
does add to your sufferings; never mind if it does' add to
your cares ; the consciousness of being exalted to a position
of trust makes the soul better able to endure those cares.
It is in this degree that man differs from blind matter.
It is in this degree that the soul is co-heir to eternity. It is
that heirship which links the immortal part to the Infinite,
and makes good and evil, right and wrong, a portion of the
economy of the human soul as well as of the economy of
the infinite purpose of life; and it is this that makes you
amenable at the bar of your own individual conscience and
to the Infinite Spirit expressed therein for the violation of
law which brings the penalty and suffering, and at the last
brings knowledge, and triumph.
This we consider the wise solution, and we believe when it
enters the consciousness of the human spirit that even sin
cannot appal nor make afraid. We believe that .the triumph
over matter and death is not wholly so great as the triumph
over that death which fears the final penalty of wrong-doing
more than it seeks to do right for the love of right.
Let us turn all abject passions out. Let us admit the
divine philosophy and the divine religion, admit that philo¬
sophy, which encompasses the universe, gives a reason for
everything, and a law for everything ; binds matter with its
tempests and its calms, its sunshine and its shadow, its
winter and its summer into the glorious zone of life, and
makes flowers to bloom out of winter snows, and out of the
great tempests and storms verdure and the forests to grow.
So, in the moral world, let us bind all together by the divine
philosophy of that theology which recognises in the good
and the evil, in the wrong and the right, a portion of the
infinite economy which encompasses and includes the whole,
and which the soul has to understand, by having overcome
and vanquished. Let us exalt ourselves beyond the paltry
fear of anything which God can do to man, by the con¬
sciousness that man is coequal to God in degree, and that
by that very responsibility which is given to his moral
nature he can almost defy the law by triumphing over it.
Who fears the penalty of murder ? Who cares for that of
theft? Who dreads the penitentiary or jail-house here?
When we advance beyond the crime, the penalty does not
seem cruel to us ; it is only those who need the scourge and
the lash that feel it. Let us remember that these things
must be, and that the needful scourging and the needful
lash are only to be superseded by the loftier smile and the
more beneficent wisdom, which gives the lash into the hands
of the individual and the scourging unto your own con¬
sciences, and leaves the sunlight and the love of God un¬
dimmed for ever.
Dr. Slade’s Movements.—Dr. Slade has left Denmark for Berlin,
via Stettin. Mr. and Miss Simmons and Miss Slade are with him, and
his address is “ care of H. Liebing, 5, Hedemann-street, Berlin, S.W.”
Mtss Kjslingbury in America.—Dr. G-. L. Ditson, of Albany, writes
as follows to T/ie Banner of Light, of October 13th last:—“Miss Kis-
lingbury, the estimable linguist and writer, and secretary of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, has honoured me with a call on
her way to Niagara Falls. Her health is quite good, though she seems
somewhat wearied with much travelling. She has promised to spend a
few days with us on her return eastward. Miss Kislingbury will
doubtless receive much kind attention from all Spiritualists of the
regions she may visit while in this country, not only on account of the
responsible position she holds at home, but for her culture, her sincerity,
and those graces which go to make up the charm of an intelligent
woman. Her graphic descriptions of visits to Mons. Ley marie in prison,
to the lovely rustic home of the distinguished Miss Blackwell (whose
sterling works it has always been my pleasure to notice in my ‘ Reviews ’
for the 'Banner'*), to the chateau of Prince Wittgenstein, &c., have the
glow of a veritable romance, and make us envy her good fortune. She
might add, too, tales of sorrow that tinge the lives of some of the
eminent of our faith besides Leymarie’s. They have our love and
reverence—they do not ask our sympathy. Miss Kislingbury informs
me that Mr. Colville is to visit the United States. From all that I have
heard and read of him I believe there are few from over the water who
should receive a more hearty welcome. He will undoubtedly give the
most abundant satisfaction to all who may require his services. The
Spiritualists of Albany meet this afternoon for a new organisation: We
have enough Spiritualists here to make a strong show, and talent enough
to make a permanently effective movement that will tell upon the age.
I will, with your permission, report progress from time to time.”
ANNE YIAL’S CASE.
The following is extracted by request from a work entitled
Mesmerism and its Opponents, by the Rev. George Sandby,
M.A., Yicar of Flixton, Suffolk (Longmans, 1848); dedi¬
cated to Captain John James :—
Anne Yials is the daughter of Samuel Yials, of the Abbey
parish in St. Alban’s, who formerly drove the mail cart
thence to Watford. For a short time this poor girl gained
her livelihood by working in a silk factory; from the
scrofulous habit of her constitution she was not always equal
to full employment; but in 1837, when she was only sixteen
years of age, she was compelled to give up work altogether,
for her mother fell sick, with a long and pining illnes's,
under which, after much suffering, she finally sank; and
during which she was confined to her bed, and required the
constant presence of a nurse. Poor Anne therefore left her
calling at the factory, took her place by her mother’s couch,
and was her unwearied attendant night and day. So feeble
indeed was the patient, that she could scarcely be quitted for
a moment; and for a long year, therefore, did this anxious
and affectionate child sit by her parent’s bed the whole night
through. When death at length relieved the sufferer, a
fatal discovery was made. The mother’s disease had taken
strong hold of the daughter, for the over-wrought exertions of
a twelvemonth had now too clearly brought out the heredi¬
tary taint. Anne Yials in fact required a nurse herself; for
not only was the general state of her health broken down,
but the left arm, which for three or four years had been giving
her much pain and uneasiness, became now in so diseased a
condition as totally to deprive her of its use. She was
placed' under the care of several medical men in succession ;
the best attendance in St. Alban’s was provided for her; but
the arm every day grew more and more painful. Through the
kindness of some charitable friends, she was now admitted
into different hospitals one after the other. She was first
removed to Hemel Hempstead infirmary, thence to St.
Bartholomew’s Hospital, in London, where she remained nine
months; thence to St. Thomas’s in the Borough, and thence
to Hemel Hempstead again, in none of which places did she
obtain any effectual benefit. The state of her health at
length became so serious, that to save her life some decisive
measures were necessary; and she was taken up to London
again to Guy’s Hospital, where her arm was amputated by
Mr. Morgan, on the 22nd of March, 1841.
At the end of three months, when the wound was healed,
she returned back to St. Alban’s. After she had been at
home some little time, a violent convulsive action commenced
in the stump. This movement grew rapidly worse and worse.
In fact, the stump moved up and down, night and day, un¬
ceasingly, and much quicker, to use her own expression,
than she herself could move her other arm. Her sufferings
became intense, and her general health was affected in pro¬
portion. She was now removed backwards and forwards, as
before, to the different hospitals, but without any relief.
At the infirmary at Hemel Hempstead, they actually
strapped the arm down with the hope of lessening the move¬
ment, but the confinement made it, if possible, worse, and
they were compelled to unloose it. She was at length carried
to St. George’s Hospital; here she remained three months,
her health gradually getting worse and worse, and the
epileptic fits, from which she had been suffering for a twelve-
month, increasing in violence and duration; when, with the
only hope of saving her life, a proposition was mooted of
taking the stump out of the socket. My readers may judge
by this simple fact of the desperate state to which this poor
girl had now arrived; for with her shattered health, it could
hardly be expected that she should survive even for a short
time so serious an operation.
Fortunately for poor Anne, she had several benevolent
friends, who, knowing all the circumstances of her history,
had watched the fearful progress of her sufferings from the
first, and by subscriptions and various little Christian kind¬
nesses, had done much towards lessening her load of sorrow.
Mr. Basil Montague, in particular—that excellent man,
whose long and useful life has been devoted to the benefit of
his fellow-creatures—took the warmest interest in her fate;
she often went to his house; and there she received from
Mrs. Montague that sympathy and consideration which
woman alone is able to bestow. One day the thought struck
both these kind friends, that if anything could be of service
to Anne in this extremity of misery, it might be mesmerism.
It was but the faintest hope, for they had but slight know¬
ledge or belief of its power; still they mentioned the case to
their friend, Mr. Atkinson, and suggested to him the idea of
making a trial of what could be done. In spite of the feeling
against mesmerism, and the almost hopeless state of the
patient, Mr. Atkinson at once, on his own responsibility,
undertook the case; and, seeing that it would require for
months the most unremitting attention, he procured a nurse
from St. George’s Hospital, and had the poor girl removed
to his own house.
It was in May, 1842, about fourteen months after the
amputation, that Anne Vials quitted the hospital to make
trial of mesmerism, and this is Mr. Atkinson’s description of
the state in which he found her:—“ She had sometimes three
or four fits in a day, of a most violent nature, which con¬
tinued for more than an hour; the stump moved up and
down without cessation ; not a merely nervous twitching, but
violently up and down; she suffered continuous excruciating
pain in the head and back, and at the end of the stump too
the pain was most excruciating; she had pain too in all her
limbs and joints particularly in the elbow of the remaining
arm, just as she had before amputation in the other. Masses
of sores were constantly breaking out in different parts of the
body; palpitations of the heart, pain in the chest, and a
spitting of large quantities of blood, were some of the other
symptoms. In short a more terrible complication of evils
have seldom been united in one sufferer.”
I shall leave it to Mr. Atkinson at some future period
to give to the public the interesting details of his
success. Let it be sufficient to state that the process was
most painfully laborious, and occupied a large portion of his
time, and that she remained in his house more than twelve
months. At the first few sittings the epileptic fits were
brought on as if by the mesmeric effect; but this prevented
their recurrence in her ordinary state.
When a patient is treated by mesmerism for epileptic
fits, it is considered a favourable sign if the manipulations
bring on a paroxysm; and, from what I have seen, I am of
that opinion. The case of Anne Vials is one in point; and
Teste, in his practical treatise, having described a remark¬
able cure of epilepsy, says :—“ This case characterises the
ordinary mode of action of mesmerism in epilepsy. An
increase in the number and severity of the fits constitutes
almost always the first effect of the treatment. But these
crises soon diminish in frequency and severity, and ulti¬
mately disappear altogether.”— Spillan's Translation of
Teste, p. 267.
At the fourth or fifth seance, the deep sleep, or trance, was
superinduced, when the action of the stump suddenly stopped,
and from that moment it never moved in that way again ; the
fits, too ceased; the pains in the back of her head were almost
immediately relieved, and a gradual improvement in her
general health set in. Upon the wonderful results of the
mesmeric treatment in this case I shall make little comment.
My readers can think for themselves. They will see here a
poor girl carried to and fro from hospital to hospital, en¬
during the most exquisite torture, and her life placed in
such a state of jeopardy that the only hope of preserving it
was recourse to a second and horrible operation. The arm
was to be taken out of the socket!—an effectual mode, in
truth, for a prevention of its movement! But from this
operation was she spared by the action of mesmerism; and
by its continued and regular application was a relapse pre¬
vented, and an improvement in her health obtained. Who
does not see the goodness of Providence in vouchsafing such
an agent? Who can deny that mesmerism to her was the
precious gift of God ? The facts of her case, of her sufferings,
of the amputation, of the movement of the stump, and of
the other attendant evils, are known to numbers ; to medical
men in St. Alban’s, and to the surgeons and nurses at the
hospitals ; and it is also known that all the remedies sug¬
gested for her benefit were fruitless; the best surgical advice
was of no avail; but the fifth day, after the application of
mesmerism, the stump ceased to move, and the other fearful
symptoms of the case began to disappear.
But these are not all the marvels that accompanied the
treatment. With the improvement of her health the most
beautiful phenomona, step by step developed themselves ; so
beautiful, indeed, as to attract the admiration of a large
number of inquiring spectators, who came to watch and study
the case. She became what is called an ecstatic dreamer.
Her nervous system had fallen into so peculiar and extremely
excited a state, from the effects of this long and painful
disease, that the mesmeric action brought out an exaltation
and a great spiritual activity of the higher organs of the
brain. And all these effects appeared spontaneously and
unlooked for. Not only did she become a somnambulist,
i.e., not only were the common results of the sleep-waking
state produced, but an ecstasy, a spirituality, a rapt devo¬
tional feeling, such as appeared to draw a veil over the
scenes of this lower world, regularly came on. To make
myself understood, I will describe the effects as they occurred
on my first visit. A few minutes sufficed to throw her into
the trance by the simple application of the hand held over
the head without contact. First, there would come a slight
nervous action of the stump, which was suddenly arrested; a
peculiar movement of the eyelids followed, the eye closed, and
she fell back in a deep stupor. From this state she could not
be aroused by any application whatsoever; she appeared insen¬
sible to pain, and to the action of ammonia, or of
lucifer matches burning under her nose. After the lapse of
some minutes, she began to move uneasily,—when on being
addressed by her mesmeriser, she answered, and sat up in a
sort of sleep-waking state, conversing freely, though unaware
of the presence of strangers. Suddenly she fell back again
into the stupor. In this she remained a short time; when
slowly rising from the recumbent position, and gradually
lifting up her arm, and pointing as it were to heaven, she
opened her eyes, looking upwards with the most intense ex¬
pression of adoration. The effect was truly sublime. It
approached the character of what we may conceive of the
devotional rapture of the seraph. Prayer—veneration—an
admiration of the unseen world—a contemplation of the
divine and the celestial, seemed to absorb every faculty of
her soul. Her features, which in her normal state are most
homely, were lighted up with a spirituality almost angelic.
Though she is nothing but an ignorant factory girl, and
accustomed to the most menial occupations, her gestures in
this state were beautiful in the extreme. In short, so
striking—so extraordinary was the appearance of this poor
one-armed girl in her dream—such a combination was it of
the graceful and of the sublime, that even a Siddons might
have made her attitudes a study for the drama, and Raphael
himself not disdained to borrow many a hint for the highest
flights of his pencil. Domenichino’s Sybille in the Palazzo
Borghese at Rome may give some idea of the elevated
beauty of her devotions. In fact, I cannot describe the
effect better than by adding that one of the spectators, whose
name on matters of taste is of the very highest authority,
after witnessing the scene walked from the house down
several streets preserving the most profound silence; and
upon his companion at length inquiring of what he was
thinking—“ Thinking,” he answered, “ of what could I be
thinking than of what grovelling creatures we are, while
that poor girl seemed a being of another world J”
I have not a shadow of doubt that if Mr. Atkinson had
wished to found a religious sect, and, secluding Anne Vials
from the world, had habituated her for years to conversa¬
tion, and objects, and persons, and books of an exclusively
religious character, and never permitted mundane trans¬
actions to be brought to her notice, either in her waking or
sleeping state, that the most extraordnary effects might
have been produced, and the most monstrous doctrines have
been built up at his suggestion. He might have retreated
with his ecstatic dreamer to some romantic vale; startled
the superstitious neighbourhood by her attitudes, her devo¬
tions, and her miraculous sufferings ; and crowds would have
flocked to witness the spectacle and imbibe his creed; and
gaping tourists might have perplexed their readers with
lucubrations on the phenomena. ‘ * Lord Shrewsbury’s
description of his Tyrolese maiden might answer word for
word to much that has occurred with poor Anne. The fact
of a fly walking over the pupil of the eye, when wide open,
which seemed such a proof of the miraculous to M. de la
Nov. 2, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 207
208
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 2, 1877.
Bouillerie, has happened with her two or three times. The j)
fly even once stopped and cleaned its wings on the eye- !
ball/’ . ^ , |
In regard to the appearance of the stigmata and the |
small Wounds on the head of the Addolorata, Dr. Elliotson I
and Mr. Atkinson both are of opinion that they might be |
the effect of strong imagination and habitual contemplation j
upon a highly diseased frame. I!
Note by Mr. Atkinson, j (
Having read the above, kindly copied out of Mr. Sandby’s j;
book by a friend, I think I had better reserve any general j
remarks I may have to make upon the case and its surprising |
phenomena for another occasion, when I will give a case, j
kindly written out for me by the late Bishop Stanley, of the |
action of the mind on the body, that came within his own
observation. Henry G. Atkinson.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, Oct. 30th, 1877. j!
AN OUTSPOKEN JUDGE. |
According to telegraphic despatches, dated Philadelphia,
October 8th, the jury in the case of James A. and Christina j
Bliss, claiming to be spiritualistic mediums, charged with a j
conspiracy to defraud, being unable to agree, were discharged |
that (Monday) morning, after having had the case since the I
preceding Saturday. The following sentences from the
charge of Judge Briggs, on giving the case to the jury, will
be read with interest:—
Religious opinion is a man’s own property, and he should
be protected in it. Spiritualism is not before you. The j
sole question is, have Mr. and Mrs. Bliss, by means of these ! I
exhibitions, defrauded their victims ? If so, they are guilty, I j
even if these victims do believe in Spiritualism. Spiritualists j j
are entitled to protection from impostors. If you are satisfied | j
that the visitors at those stances were duly informed that I j
they were simply exhibitions, and that no claim was made j
that the powers exercised were supernatural, then the de- I j
fendants are not guilty. It is not a question whether
Spiritualism is true or not, but whether the expedients re-
sorted to by the defendants were true or not. This spirit- | j
ualistic belief is just as precious to the believers in it as
yours is to you. It is not to be ridiculed by the sceptic. ! j
There are people in the community who believe in it who are |
sincere men, and I would no more denounce Spiritualism ! |
than I would Catholicism, Protestantism or Judaism. It is |
said that there are 5,000,000 Spirituaiists in the United j j
States. If it is so, these numbers make it respectable, and j j
therefore they should be protected from the impostor. j i
Believing that there was a medium who possessed the j j
power to bring back the spirit of a dead relative, would you j j
not give the world to get information ? I would, though I m
do not by any means say that is my belief. If I did I would j j
investigate it to the furthermost extent. Ridicule should j j
not stop me. I refer to it to show the enormity of the crime | |
these defendants have committed, if you find them guilty, j
The man or woman, or body of men, who would commit this j j
crime, should receive no consideration of palliating circum- j j
stances. This subject has commanded the attention of the !j
world. Judge Edmonds, with manly independence, declined j |
a renomination as judge rather than sacrifice his spiritualistic | j
belief. Senator Talmadge, from New York State, was,as j j
sincere as any of us can be. Robert Dale Owen was a | |
thorough believer. The late Professor Hare publicly pro- ||j
claimed his belief in it. We all respect these men, and it |
would not do to ridicule such a belief. ||
In concluding his charge, Judge Briggs said he would j
rather be denounced and be right than receive the applause >
of the universe.—Banner of Light. jj
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, honorary member, !(
will read a paper entitled, “Experiments on the Mesmerising of j|
Animals,” before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, j / j
at its Rooms, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, London, E., on Monday evening j( j
next, at eight o’clock. A discussion will follow. Experienced mes- I j j
merists, and others interested in the study of mesmerism, are invited to |) j
attend, and to take part in the proceedings. Members are desired to K j
introduce their friends, so as to secure a full attendance on the occasion j j
of tbe inauguration of the winter series of fortnightly Monday evening m
discussion meetings,-—Thos. Blyton, Non, Sec. ! I
A HAUNTED SPOT.
The following is a narrative of events which took place around the
E Shaft of the Chicago, Wilmington, and Vermilion Coal Co., in
Braidwood, Will. Co., 111., on the nights of August 14th and 15th, 1877.
On the afternoon of the first of August I received instructions to
report for special duty at Pinkerton’s head-quarters on Fifth Avenue,
Chicago, and a few hours later found myself comfortably housed in the
police barracks, extemporised by the Chicago, Wilmington, and Ver¬
milion Company upon their property in Braidwood. The position
seemed to be a sinecure.
The mine is located at the intersection of a railroad with a thorough¬
fare which crosses it at right angles. On the southern side of the rail¬
road are scattered the diminutive clap-board houses of the miners, each
having a garden-patch fronting on the highway. On the north side of
the track, and along the eastern side of the road, extended, fan-like, the'
tall crests and ravines of the “ dump,” composed of slate and earth
excavated during five years of worldng, and at the handle of the'
fan are located the main and ventilation shafts, both partly filled with
water and boarded over, and the engine-house, of which the timber®
littered the ground, its tall iron funnel still standing, and constituting^
with the brick work of the furnace, and the boilers embedded in it, the!
only portions of the house in sight. North of the railroad, west of the
road, its upper surface level with it, extends a low flat dump of coal-
dust and earth partly covered with piles of hard-wood props, and the
iron-work of ruined “ cages,” dump-cars, and debris. Near the road
stands a tumble-down blacksmith’s shop, with signs of decay in its iron-
barred broken windows, nailed-up doors, grimy cupola chimney, and
battered “ holey ” walls and floor. It is unequally divided by a partition,
the smaller room containing the ash-covered forge, and the more
valuable parts of the wreck of the shaft-house ; the other room held a
rusty stove, picks and other tools, and an old bench, upon which we
spread our blanket.
Invigorated by sleep, I marched up and down, until disturbed by rapid
footsteps pacing to and fro beyond the lower dump, and in a grass-
grown, boggy waste of five or six acres that stretched north to an
adjoining road. I followed cautiously, hid, walked swiftly towards the
sounds, but failing to discover their source, finally contented myself with,
listening carefully, and they continued at intervals till daylight. About,
one o’clock, or a little later, I saw two lights upon the waste referred to,,
four or four and a half feet from the ground, dancing gaily up and down,,
approaching and retreating, and wheeling round each other like butter-,
flies among flowers on a summer morning. “ Lanterns ! some one after-
the wood,” I thought, as with ready revolver I chased them through
knotty grass, muddy bottom, and around the prop-piles, but could not gpfc
within fifteen feet of them despite my utmost efforts.
They were pale, shedding no radiance, wavering, flickering like a
candle-flame in the wind, and of about four times the size. Suddenly,
I thought I understood their nature, and as jack-o’-lanterns or wiU-o’'-
the-wisps are only partial acquaintances of mine, strove more earnestly
to make a near approach. Weary and baffled, I gave up the chase, and
cannot tell the precise time of their disappearance.
“You don’t want to go chasin’ them lights,” said one of oar men at
the breakfast table, as I narrated my experience, and propounded my
theory, shaking his head ominously, and proceeding to narrate some
marvellous story of paralysis accompanying a near approach. Half
angry, I proposed on that evening to vindicate my theory, and effectually
dispose of his superstitious views, but the dancing lights did not again
appear.
Supper over, and on the ground again, the first watch fell to my lot,
and my companion slept till midnight. Footsteps came again, faint and
at distant intervals, but contenting myself with observing that all pro ^
perty was safe and in its place, twelve o’clock at last arrived, as Urso^
Major’s position indicated, and I awoke my comrade.
“ Did you try to fool me during the night ? ” he asked.
“ No. I have not been in the house till now.”
“ Some one seized my heel with both hands, and half twisted my
ancle. I woke up, saw you, I thought, standing beside me, and drew up
my other foot, meaning to give you a kick that you would remember, if
you tried it again ; but I was tired and dropped off. And, yesterday
morning,” he continued, “ there came a tremendous thump against the
side of the house. I was asleep, but it startled me so that I awoke, sit¬
ting up. You didn’t throw a stone against the house, did you ?”
“ I heard that noise,” I replied, “ and hurried from the other end of;
the road, but could find nothing; looked through the window, saw^
you curled up, seemingly asleep, and concluded I must have been mis--
taken.”
A little more chat, he closed the door, and I prepared to take off my
shoes. As I did so, an unmistakable sigh came from the darkness, fol¬
lowed by a groan. I called my friend, again, and louder yet. He
hurried up, and I questioned him as to trickery, which he solemnly
denied.
Not feeling sleepy, and disliking my proposed couch, I volunteered to
watch, and let him continue his nap; but declining, we went out into
the night.
The footsteps had become louder, and now as we listened, we could
distinguish the measured tread of one pacing “ sentry-go,” the rush of
many footsteps, the creaking of swift-moving boots. Search availed
nothing, and sitting down chatting together, he spoke of being a fair
singer, and I invited a specimen of his skill.
He broke off, as a dark shadow advanced swiftly towards us, and dis¬
appeared. Soon from the opposite direction it came again, a tall man,,
stooping, in dark clothes and slouch cap. My friend started up, and
darting after it, slashed madly right and left with his cudgel as he raced
over the low dump, while I followed, pistol in hand. Suddenly w®
stopped; it had disappeared, in clear starlight on the open dump.
Singing resumed, my “butty’s” repertoire (of the varieties order)
Nov. 2, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
209
nearly exhausted, his songs became more vulgar and obscene, until, in j j j
the last, he broke off, for the footsteps had become fearfully loud and | i j
near, were all round us, on the low dump, the road, the gritty railroad j > j
track, and with them came the sound of the pick “ at the face” of the |( |
shovel as the rooms were cleaned out, and of miners busily at work ; j (|
while from the blacksmith shop came loud raps and knocks. j |
“ Did you hear those three loud knocks ?” And my “ yes ” was em- (J
phasised by another louder still. j (j
I started to my feet. j i
“ We will go into that shop together, and find out what it is,” said I. ! j
After some hesitation he consented. We went hand in hand. In the j
name of God, I demanded, was there some suffering, evil, or unhappy j
spirit present, who needed our help. No reply, no sound came.
“If you cannot answer that, you must be imps of the devil,” I
exclaimed. |
At that my friend snatched his. hand from mine, flew into the open j
air, and I followed. j
m What made you run ?” I asked. !
“ You don’t want to talk about the devil in there.” j
a Perhaps not. But we will find some other reason yet.” i j
“ You can’t do it. I’ve been here three weeks, and there’s no other j
man on our force dare stay here. They’d take their walking papers |(
first. Kennedy was with me, and he couldn’t stand it, and left. They ! j
take me to the edge of that shaft, 85 feet deep, and tell me to throw j /
myself down.” As he spoke he walked towards the spot, picked up a I
piece of coal, dropped it between the boards; we listened to the echoing | j
plunge, and walked away. Then resuming—“ I’ve lost eighteen pounds !)
since I’ve been at it.” |
“Do these sounds follow you? Have you heard them anywhere |
else ?” I asked. :
“No.” j
The sounds were louder, nearer, menacing. Dogs (every miner keeps j
one) were howling fearfully. j
The eaves of the shop, its cupola and chimney, were faintly luminous ! j
—phosphorescent; far off on the horizon the light of some burning !
house, barn, or prairie shone, but the coming dawn we had noticed a j
short time before seemed overclouded, the air murky, dark, and stifling, j j
Whether this effect was real, or within ourselves, I do not know. Both I j
had remarked it, we found afterwards. i j!
I felt the reflection of a light on my face, and, turning quickly, saw a H
ball of fire fall splash like molten iron on the road beside me, without |||
sound, and disappear. 111
“ Did you see it as it passed your face ? ” ! I
“ No,” said I, “ I did not.” |||
“ It was a finger of fire, and was shaken in your face! I never saw jj |
them so near before, nor heard them so loud.” Then, after a long pause, j j
“ Can you pray ?” m
“ I don’t know,” I said. “ I never prayed with any one before: but I j
I must try.” ! j
“ Won’t you kneel down ? ” he asked. i | j
“ I do not think God cares about position, but I willand, hand in j
hand again, I prayed, “ making the best prayer that ever I heard,” said j |
my companion. j j j
As we rose all was peaceful, the silence startling by comparison (
with the babel that had gone before. The sky had cleared, and the j
victory was ours. Speaking of the wonders of the night, and our happy !(!
release, my companion chanced to drop a familiar oath, and the sound j (j
of the footsteps, the pick, the shovel, the knocks, began again. I re- j j I
buked him ; they died away ; in an hour daylight had come, and we ! |
turned towards the shop. The door we had returned after our flight j \ j
to close, stood wide open, the loose coils of rope had been removed i) j
diagonally to the opposite corner, and were heaped at the end of the j (j
bench. (
We searched the low dunes, the dumps, the field, no trace of shifted [v !
soil, or any alteration, where the noise had been loudest. Anything to j (j
account for these phenomena on explainable principles, I could not find, j j |
Then I turned in for an hour, was awakened by our relief, and made j / j
our report to the sergeant. He God d d my ghosts, my prayers, ! (j
my report, but at noon apologised; excused himself on the score of j j
fatigue, and on the momentary supposition that I had intended a i)
practical joke. . Hi
The men listened intently, and from them I now learned, for the !) j
first time, that on the 13th of August, nine years previously, a picnic !• {|
had been held at that spot; there was a strike at the time, quarrels [ j |
began, and ended in the murder of a number of men. | ) j
As I was lying down in the afternoon, the sergeant brought me a Hi
telegram from Chicago Hi
“ Come at once. I want to place you on another operation.” i) j
Said the sergeant, “ No doubt the superintendent, who signs this, 1 (j
wants you on the clerical force or on private work. If the latter, your | (j
apparent connection with the force will cease ; therefore, no word to I) j
the men, and take first train up.” j (
I presented myself. j) |
“ What about the E Shaft 1 ” H
Then I perceived that the “ operation ” was to be performed on I (
myself. | j
“ Who was with you ? ” j r
I made a brief report. He noted the name. j (
“Ah!” sad smile. “I don’t think I will send you down there Hi
again.” j) j
“ Did I not do my duty ? ” I i!
Significant tap of the side of his head, repetition of smile, finallyj; j
“ It has a tendency to demoralise the men.’’ K I
“You have other work ? ” I asked. \\ j
“ What is your opinion about the E ?” !(I
“ That I was further within the gates of hell there than I thought it (
possible for man to go and be alive.” i
“No further work,” said the superintendent.
“ In that case, these experiences are mine alone, and I am free to
make what use of them I please,” from me, closed the interview.
I paid a visit to the superintendent of the C. W. and Y. Co. He
had neither leisure nor inclination for investigation.
Alfred Bull.
146, Quincy-street, Chicago, 111. (Religio-Philosophical Journal.)
SLATE-WRITING AND FORM PHENOMENA.
A writer in The Malvern News of last Saturday says :—
Three ladies, with Mr. Eglinton and myself, took our places, and
arranged ourselves according to the directions of the knockings—the
conjuror’s preliminary arrangement, says the sceptic. Be that as it
may, I am merely stating what took place. The light was lowered, and
finally put out. Shortly after, all hands being connected, the musical
box began to play, continuing or stopping at the command of any one
present. Once, when it was silent, I mentally asked that it might
strike six notes in succession. It did as I wished, when Mr. Eglinton
asked what that was. I replied, “ I asked it, mentally, to play six
notes.” The conjuror guesses at your thoughts, but then he must have
something to base his opinion on. Here there was nothing of the kind.
No human being in the flesh knew what was my mental wish. I leave
this for clever people to solve. The voices of Joey, Ernest, and Daisy
were heard, the first promising to do some slate writing. Light was
asked for, slates were produced, which I examined and cleaned—
breathing on each side freely, but no writing was developed. Two
small pieces of slate pencil were placed between them, and the corners
tied securely. Three persons held the slates above the table, and in a
full-lighted room. In a short time the act of writing was audible, but
faint. Presently they were opened, and each side that faced the other
was filled with very small writing, partly in Greek—which was trans¬
lated—partly in English, with a quotation from Tennyson, containing
general directions, one of a specific character to myself. I will not
give that to you on this occasion, but I will copy it out for you to use
at your discretion—that slate being now in my possession. In reference
to the slates, I may remark that, in receiving the invitation to attend
the siance, Mr. Eglinton asked me to bring two of my own, thus doing
away with the idea that his own slates only are used. Business matters,
however, prevented carrying out his wishes.
Now comes the astonishing part. A small lamp was lit, and we took
our seats in front of the cabinet, Mr. Eglinton sitting in the easy chair
outside of the curtains. In a short time, say three minutes, a figure
draped in white came to the opening in the curtains, took Mr. Eglinton
by the arm and led him inside, laying him on the sofa—he appearing
to be asleep when he was led into the cabinet. Shortly out came a
handsome figure, certainly five feet ten inches in height—Mr. Eglinton
is about five feet seven—and bowed several times to the audience. He
was attired in Eastern costume, he being a Persian prince with only one
arm, the left having been lost in battle. His name is Abdullah. He
went in and out repeatedly, showing his jewels and coming almost close
to the sitters. Presently Joey came, dressed as a clown, took away a
chair, drew a table towards him, played a mouth-organ, carried about
the musical box, and did many other wonderful things, gave an address
of certainly ten minutes’ duration, and was followed by the voice of
Ernest; the two in turn wishing us, “Good night.” Daisy then
brought Mr. Eglinton out of the cabinet—still in a trance, led him back,
and disappeared. George Dobson.
Malvern, October 25tk, 1877.
Mr. D. H. Wilson and family are at Villa Rosa, Hyeres, where
they intend passing the winter.
Mr. W. Eglinton, medium, has returned to London, and is giving
stances as usual.
A Mysterious Light on the Pacific Coast.—A gentleman, S. W.
Jones, owns a farm in Oregon, on which curious manifestations have
taken place in the shape of mysterious lights. It appears from a state¬
ment made by Mr. G. W. Lawson, of Salem, Oregon, that the light had
a range from the old barn half a mile west of Mr. Jones’s house, down
to opposite Butteville or below, a distance of nearly twenty miles. It
was seen by different persons all along that route, and was thought by
many to be connected in some way with some of the old French settlers,
Mr. Jones himself gave a graphic account of his own adventure with the
light. He got home one rather dark evening with his team, and seeing
the light going along the fence towards the barn, he concluded to jump
on to one of his horses and ride over and see if burglars were about.
The light was coming south towards the barn, and was about half a mile
off as he started west to the same objective point. He rode out at a smart
trot, and the light moved about as fast as he did till about a quarter of a
mile had been accomplished by each party, when the light turned and
came towards his line, and soon struck his road a few rods in front of
him. He said it looked like a bright lantern light, swinging, as if some¬
body were carrying it, and he had no other thought about it, until, as it
approached nearer, he saw it was coming alone, and being able then to
see clearly all around it, he found that no mortal man at least was sup¬
porting it. Just about the time that he made this discovery his horse
did the same, and all at once a strange fear possessed both rider and
horse. They both whirled suddenly; he put the whip in his hand to
work, and they flew back rapidly. After retreating nearly to the house
he looked back and saw the light, then only a couple of rods behind him,
suddenly part, and in an instant it came rushing by him on each side
about his shoulders. It passed with a loud noise, as of rushing wind,
and at once disappeared. He got home, and concluded that he would
not hunt for any more ghosts.—Religio-Philosophical Journal,
210
THE StlElftlALTSf.
THE MATERIALISATION OF A SPIRIT.
The time seems to be gradually approaching, when
cabinets will be abolished, and materialisation phenomena be j
presented more than has hitherto been the case, in the light, j
We have received the following letter:—
14, Adelaide-road, N.W., 29th October, 1877. |
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.
Sir,—At Mr. Williams’ s stance^ held in his rooms, 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Saturday evening last, the spirit, “John King,” favoured
me by inviting me into the cabinet, to see him and his medium at the
same time.
I accordingly entered the cabinet, and standing by the side of the
spirit—in fact touching him—his form and features were distinctly i
visible by the light of the “ lamp ” he held in his hand; I also saw the i
recumbent figure of Mr. Williams in a corner of the cabinet.
After satisfying myself that John King and his medium were two |
distinct individuals, John dismissed me with a friendly shake of the i
hand. His hand felt precisely similar to that of a living man.
I may add that, while standing by John King’s side, he spoke to me I
several times, asking me if I could see his medium. Gr. H. Potts.
A SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS.
BY THE BARONESS ADELMA VON VAY (COUNTESS WURMBRAND).
During our visit to London, the Baron and myself were
much contented with our seance with Mr. Williams. The
spirit (John King) appeared and dissolved before our eyes j
six times. I recognised him to be exactly the same John King |
whom I often saw clairvoyantly in my water-glass. He j
said—“ Do you recognise me ? I often come to your water-
glass.” All the time John King’s form was out and speaking
to us, we heard Mr. Williams moaning inside the cabinet.
From our experiences we have full trust in these excellent
mediums—Dr. Slade and Mr. Williams. |
Gonobitz, Austria.   
The following is a report of a seance with Mr. Williams,
drawn up by Dr. Carter Blake, late secretary to the Anthro- I
pological Institute :— j
On the 12 th October a seance was held by the Research j
Committee of the National Association of Spiritualists; Mr.
C. E. Williams was the medium.
Mr. D. G. Fitzgerald having to leave before the stance
began, Captain James, chairman of the committee, requested
me to write some notes of what might take place. The
gentlemen present at the seance were Captain James, the
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., the Rev. W. W. Newbould, I
Mr. G. C. Joad, Mr. G. F. Green, Mr. J. W. Gray, Mr. T. |
H. Edmands, and myself.
Mr. Williams at first sat at the table for a short time,
when the voice of i( Peter” was heard to utter a few words
in an almost inaudible tone. Subsequently, at the request j
of “ Peter,” the medium entered the cabinet where he sat j
in the chair, separated by the wire partition from a pail con- j
taining melted paraffin, and another pail containing cold
water. The greater part of the seance was held in darkness,
with occasional singing, and the musical box playing alter - j
nately. The doors of the cabinet were nearly closed, and
so left slightly ajar, as to be able to exhibit a clear space in
front of the wire partition. A curtain was lightly thrown
over the upper part of the opening.
After a short time the voice of Peter was heard, and a |
sound of dabbling in the cold water pail occurred almost
simultaneously. a Peter” said he could do no more ; and
though small lights were seen at several times, nothing |
whatever occurred of note outside the cabinet.
The moment the seance was terminated I took possession
of the cold water pail, in which I found an object composed j
of paraffin wax, which I carefully lifted out of the pail, and |
locked in a drawer of the library table belonging to the British
National Association of Spiritualists. This object has not
been touched by any other person, and I beg to submit it |
to the committee. I would merely note that its apparent
resemblance to four digits may necessitate a plaster cast
being taken from it; and for this reason I present to the j
committee the original specimen. I looked carefully
on the floor of the cabinet for any loose pieces which j
might answer to the truncated ends of the fingers, and j
found none.
There were three small beads of solid paraffin floating on i
the surface of the water, each of about the size of a lentil. |
frov. 2, i87V.
I'j There was no trace of splash marks between, or around,
11 either of the pails. C. Carter Blake.
The above seance was not understood to be held under the
;j conditions ordinarily insisted upon in test seances.
D. G. Fitz-Gerald.
FORTHCOMING MEETINGS.
Next Sunday morning, at eleven o’clock, a service will be
j held at the Doughty-hall, Bedford-row, London, at which
; Mr. Colville, the new trance medium, will address the con-
11 gregation. On the following Sunday morning, and for
i several Sundays thereafter, he will hold services at the
| favourite spiritualistic place of meeting, the Cavendish-
[| rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, which he has taken
i for the purpose, on his own responsibility.
! Next Monday evening, at eight, Mr. W. H. Harrison will
| read a paper before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
i Spiritualism, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, on “ The Mesmerising
! of Animals.” The influence of mesmerism upon cats, dogs,
ji birds, fishes, lions, tigers, elephants, snakes, and other
m animals will be considered. The place of meeting is not
' far from the Hackney Downs station of the Great Eastern
Railway.
On Wednesday, the opening soiree for the season of the
National Association of. Spiritualists, will be held at 38,
Great Russell-street, and as, doubtless, it will be a general
reunion^ special attractions have been provided in the way of
music and singing. These monthly soirees are open to all
| Spiritualists on payment, and are not confined to members
and their friends. Refreshments are served from 6.30 p.m.
! to 7.30 p.m.; the music and singing commence at eight,
[j The following is the programme for next Wednesday
j evening:—
) PART t.
) Overture, “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” (Mendelssohn),the Misses
| Withall.
Song, “My Queen” (Blumenthal), Mr. Ernest A. Tietkens.
Reading, Mr. Dietz.
Song, Miss Younge.
, Duo Concertante, piano and violin, “La Sonnambula” (Osborne and
De Beriot), Miss Withall and Mr. Kitcat.
Recitation, Miss Ella Dietz.
|
PART II.
Flute solo, Cavatina (J. Clinton), Mr. W. Edmiston.
Song, Miss Younge.
Violin solo, Mr. Kitcat.
Song, “Aye or No” (Cowen), Mr. Ernest A. Tietkens.
Recitation, Miss Ella Dietz.
Overture, “Oberon” (Weber), the Misses Withall.
At the meeting of the Psychological Society, on Thurs-
j day, November 15th, a discussion will be opened by Mr.
] Stainton-Moses on the “ Phenomena of Independent Slate-
j writing.” We are requested to invite any persons who have
j obtained through any medium cases which will stand careful
| and scientific testing, to forward their records and details of
i evidence to Mr. Stainton-Moses, 100, Clifton-hill, N.W., for
| use as may be advisable.
j The Religion we Want.—We want a religion that bears heavily, not
| only on the “ exceeding sinfulness of sin,’’ but on the exceeding rascality
I of lying and stealing; a religion that banishes small measures from the
counters, small measures from the stalls, pebbles from the cotton bags,
clay from the paper, sand from the sugar, chickory from the coffee, alum
] from the bread, and water from the milk-cans. The religion that is to
| save the world will not put all the big strawberries at the top and all the
little ones at the bottom. It will not make one-half a pair of shoes of
good leather, so that the first shall redound to the maker’s credit and
the second to his cash. It will not put Jouvin’s stamp on Jenkins’s kid
| gloves; nor make Paris bonnets in the back room of a Boston milliner’s
shop; nor let a piece of velvet that professes to measure twelve yards
come to an untimely end in the tenth; nor a spool of sewing silk that
vouches for twenty yards be nipped in the bud at fourteen and a half;
nor all-wool delaines and all-linen handkerchiefs be amalgamated with
clandestine cotton; nor coats made of old rags pressed together to be
sold to the unsuspecting public for real broadcloth. It does not put
bricks at five dollars a thousand into chimneys it contracts to build with
seven-dollar material; smuggle white pine into floors that have paid for
hard pine ; leave yawning cracks in closets where boards ought to join ;
daub the ceilings that ought to be smoothly plastered; nor make window
blinds of slats that cannot stand the wind, and paint that cannot stand
the sun, and fastenings that may be looked at but on no account
touched. The religion that is going to sanctify the world pays its debts.
It does not consider that forty cents returned from one hundred cents is
according to the Gospel, though it may be according to law. It
| looks on a man who has failed in trade, and who continues to live in
i luxury, as a thief.— The American Christiant
THE SPlRIfUAlilST.
lifov. 2, 1877.
211
(C FOR THE FIRST TIME.” j j
BY FLORENCE MARRYAT. | i j
Bend down thy mouth upon my mouth, beloved, ij |
And seal me thine; • ' || |
No after coldness can efface the deed i (|
That makes thee mine. ij i
Kisses may come and go upon these lips, j j j
Yet have no power i j ]
To mar the blessed mem’ry that enfolds | H
This sacred hour! j j j
E’en though in future days thine own should press
In ecstasy j j
Another’s lips, it could not render void j j
This pledge to me! j j
For as thy kiss upon my mouth is laid I j
My dead soul wakes, j j
And glancing upward, with a grateful sigh, j j j
Her passion slakes; j j
Cold doubts disperse, hot longings sink to rest, j j
Hushed are her pains, I j
’Neath the triumphant truth that love is life;
And love remains. j j
So! though thy lips were ne’er again my own,
I still retain j j j
The knowledge that this moment’s bliss repays j
A life of pain; j 1
And that for one brief hour, too quickly o’er, j
Our souls are wed,
Whilst the vain passions of this changing earth
Lie as things dead. i
No other shares thy heart the while thy hand j
Is clasped in mine; j j
And till life ends my soul will swell to know I j
I have been thine ! j [ j
Then bend thy mouth again to mine, beloved, j j |
Seal me thine own; j
And faith shall hold the pledge until we meet j !
Before G-od’s throne! jjj
Mr. Morse’s Appointments.—On Sunday evening next Mr. Morse jj j
will deliver a trance address in the Spiritualists’ Hall, Newgate-street, |( j
Newcastle-on-Tyne; subject, “The Spirit World.” The service com- jjj
mences at 6.30 p.m. On the following evening, at the same place, at jj j
eight o’clock, Mr. Morse, under spirit influence, will answer questions ! |
from the audience on Spiritualism and cognate subjects. On Tuesday jj j
evening, November 7th, Mr. Morse will give a phrenological reading j j
before the “Excelsior Circle,” South Shields, in aid of the funds.
Mr. J. M. Peebles in the East.—Mr. Peebles, in the course of his jj j
second tour round the world, to observe the progress of Spiritualism in ij j
different countries, has left Southern India for Natal. In a letter to jj|
the Religio-Philosophical Journal ''Chicago), dated Madras, August 27th, jjj
he says“ Though charmed with Ceylon and my long interviews with j
the Buddhist priests, I am shocked with the famine and wretchedness j j
I see in Madras, Southern India. But little rain has fallen for two i j
years. Already 600,000 have died from starvation. The city of ij
Madras numbers nearly 600,000, and all around the outskirts of the j j
city are famine camps where the starving receive but one, and some- ! J
times two meals of rice per day, and where the dying receive medical i
assistance. I saw sights too horrible to describe, especially in the female i
department, where are huddled together the starving children born of i
famine-stricken mothers. The poor things were little more than skin Jj
and bones. Over half a million have died within a few months ; and 1
to talk of cremation in such a crisis is the sheerest folly. Wood is very | J
expensive. These dead, with few exceptions, are buried. Going out to i
the burning-place yesterday, I saw a few burned ; but they used dried
cow-chips instead of wood. Hindooism is declining, or, rather, under- j
going a transformation ; education is doing it. Buddhism is increasing jj
in Ceylon. A while since the Buddhist priests met the Methodist mis- !
sionaries in an open public debate lasting two days; the Buddhists j
gained a decided victory. I have the full and complete report of this i
discussion, which I shall publish upon reaching America. During last j
week I ransacked the city and adjoining country villages, to witness jj j
magic, and such occult performances as casting out demons and con- j j j
versing with Hindoo priests through their mediums. I saw strange and i j
most wonderful things. And these Hindoos, unlike the Chinese, allow jj j
me to see everything, the incense they burn and the somalike juice that j j i
some of them drink to produce the trance. As in America, I see day j| i
by day the false and the true ; it is sometimes hard to draw the line j j
between them. I have met several learned Pundits and Shastrys. j j j
These latter interpret the Yedas and other sacred books, which books jjl
are full of Spiritualism. I might almost say that all Hindoos are j i
Spiritualists, for they all believe in a present intercourse with gods and j j j
demons; but with it there is mixed a vast amount of superstition, i j
Culture and science will rectify this.”
THE VICTORIAN ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The new Reading-room of the above association, at 84, Russell-street,
Melbourne, was formally opened by the Vice-president, Mr. H. Brother-
ton, on Tuesday evening, August 7th. There was a large attendance of
members, and after a few remarks from the chairman, in which he
expressed his opinion that the object of those concerned in the movement
was to diffuse as much truth as possible, the librarian was requested to
read the list of papers, magazines, and books at present available in the
reading-room. Before doing so, Mr. Terry expressed his gratification at
the accomplishment of this first object of the new association, and at the
interest shown by the number there present. The reading-room would
be an advantage, not only to members personally, but more particularly
to their friends and acquaintances. When a desire was expressed by
any of their friends to know something more about Spiritualism they
could refer them to the room, where from the papers, periodicals, and
books they would be able to get sufficient information to encourage them
to investigate farther. Members would he provided with tickets for the
purpose, which they could issue, and which would he available for a
week. He then read the following list of papers and books in the
room:—Banner of Light, Spiritual Scientist, Spiritualist, Medium—
weekly; Human Nature, London Spiritual Magazine, American Spiritual
Magazine, The Shaker—monthly; A rcana of Spiritualism, Tuttle;
Debateable Land, R. D. Owen; Footfalls on the Boundarg of Another
World, Owen; Letters on Spiritualism, Edmonds; Modern American
Spiritualism, E. H. Britten; Phenomena of Spiritualism, Crookes;
Miracles of Modern Spiritualism, Wallace; Where are the Dead?
or, Spiritualism Explained; Death and the After Life, Davis;
England and Islam, Maitland; Library of Mesmerism; Holy Truth,
H. J. Browne; Tracts on Spiritualism, and Wallace's Defence, in 1
vol.; Banner of Light, from April 1st, 1876, to June 8th, 1877; Spirit¬
ualist, from March 10th, 1876, to May 26th, 1877; one bound vol. (38)
Banner of Light; twenty numbers Herald of Progress; Mystery of Edwin
Drood, complete; Great Harmonia, Vol. I.; Scepticism and Spirit¬
ualism ; Book on Mediums. The committee had also ordered the fol¬
lowing papers :—Beligio-Philosophical Journal; Voice of Angels ; Hull’s
Crucible.
General satisfaction was expressed at the provision made for readers
which, with expected donations, was deemed ample for present require¬
ments ; also with the suitability of the room which is lofty and well-lit.
On the walls are portraits of Dr. J. M. Peebles, A. J. Davis, and Katie
King—Ten Spiritual Commandments and Rules of Right, and a photo¬
graph of direct spirit-writing, received at Sandhurst. There is also a
volume of some of the earliest spirit teachings received in Victoria, lent
by Mr. Terry. The room will be open daily from 10 to 5 a.m., and 7 to
10 p.m.; Sundays, 2 to 5 and 7 to 10.—Harbinger of Light, Melbourne.
Dr. Mack, healing medium, has returned to this country from the
United States, and is now in London.
The republication of Professor Gregory’s standard book on Mesmer¬
ism, seems likely to give considerable impetus to that subject in
America and Australia, where the demand for the work is large.
Mesmerism.—The Rev. George Sandby dedicated his celebrated book
on Mesmerism and its Opponents to Captain John James, in the follow¬
ing words:—“Icannot dedicate this little work more appropriately than
to you, through whom I became first acquainted with the great truths of
which it treats, and to whose kindness and cordial sympathy I am so
deeply indebted.—Believe me to remain, my dear friend, yours most
sincerely, George Sandby.”
Miss Wood’s Mediumship.—We have received a letter from Mr.
John Mould, President of the Newcastle Psychological Society, open¬
ing with somewhat personal remarks about Mr. Stone, and closing with
the following paragraph :—“ The few in Blackburn may believe Miss
Wood to be a daring adventuress, but the many in Newcastle know
her to be a genuine medium. Our knowledge of her gift is not based
solely on ‘ family parties,’ but grows out of an extended personal, in¬
vestigation into the phenomena witnessed in her presence, corroborated
by the personal inquiry of all classes. Though it may grieve the
heart of Mr. Stone to know it, the members of the Newcastle Psycho¬
logical Society, as well as many of the inhabitants of the town, still
anticipate her visits among us with pleasure, and, notwithstanding her
mishap at Blackburn, still value her gift of mediumship, and are always
ready to avail themselves of it.”
Mr. Colville’s Meetings.—On Sunday morning last, a good congre¬
gation assembled in Doughty Hall, at 11.16, to hear a discourse,
through Mr. Colville’s inspirational mediumship, on “ The Philosophy
of Prayer.” The collection was a liberal one. Next Sunday there will
be a similar service in Doughty Hall, at 11.16 a.m., the subject of
discourse will be, “ Spiritual Organisation, its Need and Scope.” All
seats free. Last Monday evening, at the Langham Hall, the subject of
discourse, chosen by the audience, was “ Vaccination.” Miss Chandos
Leigh Hunt presided. The audience chose “ Liberty ” as the subject
for an impromptu poem. Considering the unfavourable weather, there
was a fair attendance. Every Saturday afternoon, at four o’clock, Mr.
Colville delivers a short trance address, and answers questions under
influence, at the rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists, 38,
Great Russell-street, London, where those who attend have an oppor¬
tunity of studying his mediumship and its results at their leisure. Next
Sunday afternoon, at 3.15, Mr. Colville will lecture at the Quebec Hall,
25, Great Quebec-street, Marylebone, on “ Science, and its Relations to
Spiritualism;” and on Tuesday, Nov. 6th, at 8.30 p.m., on a subject
chosen by the audience. Poems, on subjects chosen by the audience,
are given after each lecture. The admission is free ; there is a collec¬
tion towards expenses. Mr. Colville gratefully acknowledges the fol¬
lowing donations for the support of his Langham Hall meetings:—
G. A. S., £l; Veritas, £1; Mrs. Strawbridge, £1. Previously acknow¬
ledged, £3 5s.
212
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 2, 1877.
STRANGE VISIONS. j
A few days ago we were invited to a seance with a new 1
clairvoyant medium, Miss Mancell, cousin to the late Dr.
Elliotson, of mesmeric fame. While in an apparently ||
normal state, Miss Mancell sees spirits and forms from the ||
other world, in the darkest parts of a dimly lighted room. |
At our seance nothing occurred to prove that her visions were |
other than subjective, but the following is either proof of j
something of a different nature, or of the action of the mind j
of a sitter upon the sensitive :— j
Sir,—Miss Mancell, the clairvoyante, gave me a letter two |
or three days since from a Mr. Regan, in which he states j j
you expressed a wish to have my account of certain seances j j
at which she was the medium, in order that the same be i j
recorded in The Spiritualist. j i
My knowledge of Miss Mancell is of very recent date, and j I
arose from seeing her name either in your paper or The j j
Medium. I accordingly called on her and arranged for a j j
sitting, which took place at my house in Bermondsey, the j j
17th July, 1877 ; my relative, Mrs. Boreham, and myself j |
were present. She described the appearance of an old man j
with his eyes closed, an old lady wearing spectacles, and on | |
a white cap with large frill round it, and in the act of | j
smiling; also a middle-aged female, apparently an invalid, j
seated in an easy or invalid chair; a garment having a shawl | I
pattern thereon was wrapped round her. She further spoke i
of the appearance of flowers and other things. j i
But my attention was drawn to the characteristics, so well j j
described, of my dear parents ; the invalid was my youngest m
sister; the shawl-pattern garment wrapped round her, I j j
recognised as an old Indian shawl, used when I and my j |
sisters were children, to cover us occasionally. It ultimately j !
belonged to my youngest sister, and was very likely worn ij
by her at the latter part of her life when ill. j}
I imagine the foregoing particulars will have but little ||
interest for your readers, although to me they have much, j
being to my mind perfectly conclusive as to the genuine j
nature of Miss Manceil’s powers, and I have no hesitation j j
in recommending her to all who desire to investigate her j j
particular phase of psychological power. | J
The results of this seance are undoubtedly more personal j j
than general, but I venture to think that the following | I
account of a sitting with Miss Mancell, at which Mrs. | |
Boreham and myself were present, on September 17th, j j
1877, will have a more extensive significance, and serve to | |
show that notwithstanding the marvels of the materialisation j j
and dematerialisation of the human form, other phases of j j
life phenomena at times manifest themselves, and open up to j |
the mind reflections that all our present spiritualistic know- j j
ledge is yet in a preparatory stage. ! I
When about three or four years of age, I was one night j j
a-bed, looking at the rushlight burning in the holder, which j j
was a cylinder of tin, about nine inches in diameter by one i
foot high, and perforated with holes. While looking at it, j j
all of a sudden I saw some twenty or more beautiful little i j
creatures capering round the light within the tin holder, j j
They were in two circles, and danced (holding each other’s j
hands) in contrary directions ; they were dressed in bright- j j
coloured clothing, red, blue, and so on; their countenances I j
were most animated, and among them, and much taller than j j
the rest, was one whose face had a great resemblance to the | |
face of Punch, as depicted on the cover of the journal of j j
that name; in short, they were those beings popularly known j |
as fairies. The tall one kept looking in all directions, and ij
his dark eyes sparkled like diamonds. I, child as I was, got | |
frightened at him, lest he should spy me, which at last he j j
did. I then screamed out, and the fairies vanished. I was j j
taken down stairs, and told my father and mother, as well as j j
I was able, what I had seen. Ever after the said tin holder i j
was taken care of, and is now mine. j j
This narration is necessary, in order to illustrate Miss j |
MancelTs powers. On the evening of September 17th, we j |
had been trying in semi-darkness whether she could discern j |
any flames from magnets, which she said she could, when all |ji
at once it occurred to me to try her powers with the tin light- j|!
holder, and to see what would come of it. I accordingly j j
brought it out, and set it before her in subdued light. After ‘ "
a short time she said that she saw small figures hovering
about it; some were seated in the inside; they looked like
fairies. One of them she mentioned as having bells on his
head, and all had bright-coloured dresses. On the outside of
the tin shade the figures were of a different kind; Miss
Mancell called them pigmies, partaking more of the forms
of satyrs, centaurs, fays, and cyclops. She also saw the
word “ magi ” in letters of light over the shade. I then
placed a light therein, and the appearances were quite dif¬
ferent. Miss Mancell then saw a human face, with blue
eyes, and widow’s head-dress ; next a disagreeable and witch¬
like face; then flowers and other objects.
I make no comment on what I have written, desiring
that my tale should be as unvarnished as possible, but
respectfully invite the remarks and experiences of your
readers in relation to these phenomena. Thos. Sherratt.
10, Basinghall-street, E.G., Oct. 26th, 1877.
AN INDIAN “ MEDICINE DANCE.”
The Banner of Light publishes a letter dated Keshena, Wisconsin,
September, 1877, from which the following is an extract:—
We were favoured a few days ago in being invited to a “ Medicine
Dance,” one of the sacred rites of the Pagan portion of the tribe. It is
said that these “ medicine men,” in whatever portion of North America
they may be, find friends and brothers, although speaking an entirely
different language, and the secret which binds them together has never
been betrayed; certainly here, let a man be ever so intoxicated, he is
sobered at once when one seeks to extort this sacred trust from him.
They hand down from father to son the medicine-bag, which is held
with peculiar sacredness, and considered to possess peculiar virtues. It
is opened only once a year, or on some great occasion, and when moved
from place to place it is entrusted to the care of the oldest man, who
bears it on his back. No woman is allowed to touch it, and upon it
oaths are taken. Is there not a hint of the “Ark of the Covenant” in
the reverence shown this sacred thing? A year ago last spring a
member of this society died, and the young man appointed to take his
place must wait a year before the rites of initiation could be performed.
He delayed till this fall, not being able to procure the necessary gifts of
blankets and calicoes before. On a recent Sunday we were honoured
with an invitation to witness the ceremony. The performance com¬
menced in the afternoon, in a little clearing approached through a dense
forest of hemlock, the stillness and gloom of which was a fitting prepa¬
ration for the wild fantasies of the Medicine Dance. Through a long
night, in a tempest of rain and storm, the ceremonies continued, and
when in the morning we came out from our drive through the deep woods
we seemed to be in some far-off heathen land, instead of being within
twenty-four hours’ ride of Chicago. A long wigwam, covered with
matting, a little fire at either end, and a company of Pagans engaged in
their mystic rites, greeted us. Seated upon the ground were four old
men, drumming upon a cask covered by a deer skin, and striking
rapidly the ground with a rattle, making a combination of sounds
which could be heard for miles. This was accompanied with singing,
the voice being pitched to a high key, then sliding down the scale. The
hymn was one of praise to the Great Spirit, thanking him for permitting
a poor Indian thus to worship the Great Father, who had in the ages
past formed for them this society; recalling the virtues of their fathers
who were now sleeping in the mother earth, and who once sang these
same .songs, and had been safely carried to the happy land above.
During all these hours the candidate stood or kneeled, with eyes fastened
on the ground, with a countenance full of deepest reverence and
humility. He seemed as if standing at the gates of eternity, and as if con¬
scious of assuming vows of deepest moment. Graceful, with cheeks and
neck painted, bare-headed and dignified, he carried out his part to per¬
fection. Now the squaws danced about him, or solemnly marched in
procession, bearing otter, squirrel, or rattlesnakes’ skins on their arms.
Then some of the head men would address the candidate in really
eloquent strains, adjuring him by the memory of his ancestors, and by
the desire to live to a good old age, to be true and faithful to his vows.
So the hours passed ; the drumming, the weird music, the wild dancing
of the painted Pagans, being kept up with scarcely a moment’s cessation.
After a time rich blankets were laid on boughs in the centre of the
lodge, and the candidate kneeling at one end, the performance became
more intensely earnest. At last he fell prostrate and remained motion¬
less. Three times the procession marched about him, when an old man
stepped in and raised him from apparent death, imparting the secret
which made him one of them. After this, as he stood in the centre, he
was struck again and again with the other skins, as often falling from
the blow. Toward the close of the day all marched to the graves of the
dead on a hillside close by, where the spirit of him who had died the
year before was supposed still to be hovering about, waiting for his suc¬
cessor to take his place. To him an address was made, and he was
desired to go and prepare a place for those who were to follow him.
More marching, more invocating and exhorting to faithfulness, and then
the last supper, consisting of wild rice soup was eaten with the dead;
With the setting sun illumining that band of devoted ones, who for
twenty-four hours had worshipped in their way the Great Spirit, we
turned away, feeling that perhaps their adoration was as acceptable to
our Father as the devotions of many who look with ridicule upon the
worship of these unlettered heathen. In these rites there certainly
were dim suggestions of the advent of Christ, the last supper, and the
resurrection, and from whence came these ideas ? They do not speak
our language, have no written word, and no Christian teacher, Ne-a-pet,
Nov. 2, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
213
the son and successor of Oshkosh, now head chief, told me this story :— i
“We have formed this society of medicine men because so directed by j
one who came to us when the race was created. He came as a stranger,
and from some other tribe, saying, ‘ My friends and brothers, I come to I
dwell among you, and to do you good.’ As he appeared like any other
Indian, he was not believed, and many considered him an impostor
(‘ despised and rejected of men ’?) To prove his claims he opened a roll
of bark which he bore upon his shoulder, saying, ‘ Look my brothers,
and believe what I say. I am here to bless and help you.’ He then
unfolded the roll, disclosing a dozen apartments of different medicines
with which he healed diseases and worked miracles. So he convinced
the people of his goodness, and established this society, which has ever
been kept up in remembrance of him.” We were greatly indebted to
our agent, Mr. Joseph C. Bridgman, of Springfield, and his interpreter,
Joseph Gauthier, for the intelligent understanding of this wild, weird
ceremony. S. E. B.
Iftebieto.
The London Dialectical Society (Prospectus) ; 43, Great
Portland-street, London, 1877.
Nothing is more gratifying than the discovery of an
organised body which is not afraid to publicly own an
unpopular truth when it has discovered the same. The
Dialectical Society appears to be at last most thoroughly
converted to Spiritualism. It has gone so far in this direc¬
tion as to have entered on its last prospectus a dead man as
one of its Vice-presidents, for in the list of their names
recently officially issued, we find u Viscount Amberley
(deceased).” Everybody should pay sixpence for a copy of
this unique announcement.
A Social Problem Solved.—five sisters take good care that the
sixth shall be well acquainted with all the peculiarities and defects of
the man who is making love to her. It is astonishing how fastidious
girls become concerning a man who does not want to marry them, and
does want to marry somebody else. There is no commoner observation
among girls who are not sisters, than that they are surprised Bertha is
going to marry Edmund, since he is “not good enough for her.” Yet
many of them would have been as little difficult to please as Bertha, had
they been in Bertha’s place: It is so much easier to criticise a poem or
a play than to write one; and it is so much easier to find fault with
somebody else’s lover than to procure a faultless one for yourself. The
fact, that when there are many daughters, they none of them marry, or
marry only at a comparatively advanced age, has been observed by
everybody; and we submit, that the reason for an otherwise unaccount¬
able phenomenon has been given.—Truth.
A Lecture at Stockton-on-Tees. — On Sunday evening, October
20th, Mr. J. J. Morse gave a trance address in the Mill Schoolroom,
Stockton-on-Tees, on “ Spirit Communion: its Value.” On the Monday
following he delivered an address on “ Did the Soul exist previous to
its Occupying a Human Body ? Has it Definite Form ? What is the
manner of its Existence in the Body? What is its Final Destiny?”
The subject was chosen by the audience. The lecturer said the topic
was a fruitful one. Among all peoples the pre-existence of the human
soul had formed a subject for speculation. Granting, as the questioner
did, that man had a soul, the desire was natural to know where it came
from. More would be known about the soul in a future state of exist¬
ence ; but men were impatient, and wished to know everything about
it now. The origin of the soul could not be demonstrated from any
special department of nature, or from the various theories presented to
the world, but rather from an efficient analysis of man’s nature itself,
and man’s relationship to the universe of which he formed a part. The
lecturer referred to the philosophical theory of the monads, and the
theological one of God forming man miraculously out of the dust of the
earth. Both theories he rejected as being not wholly true. The human
being he regarded as the crowning work; the master-piece of God’s
creation of this world; the natural result of development from lower
to higher forms of life. Man contained within himself all the elements
of nature, and his soul was the outcome of their possibilities. Man
had three features belonging to him. (1) Sensation, This warned him
from danger. (2) Instinct. This led him to conserve his well being.
(3) Reasoning, or intellectual power. This related him to the higher
department of the universe. In addition to these, man had also a
spiritual faculty. This was indicated by his yearnings and longings for
a higher state of existence, for most men felt that the present order of
existence was incapable of affording them the highest enjoyment and the
fullest development their natures were able to receive. The lecturer
showed that the soul could not be discovered by reference alone to the
physical part of man, and without regard to the spiritual qualities
possessed by him. The human soul existed in the brain as a focal
centre, and as the heart in the chest was a substantial reality, so the
soul in the brain was a substantial reality also. Many people thought the
soul extended throughout the entire human body. The only thing
which pervades the human body is the spiritual body, with which the
soul operates upon the physical one. This spiritual body the soul takes
with it into spirit life when that change takes place called death. In
conclusion, the lecturer stated that the destiny of the soul was eternal
progress, and that the soul’s progress in the future depended upon the
use it made here of its opportunities, and the strength it put forth to
overcome all barriers and obstacles.
THE CHARITY ORGANISATION SOCIETY.
The following is the prospectus of the above society
The main object of the society is the improvement of the condition
of the poor, (1) by bringing about co-operation between the charities
and the Poor Law, and amongst the charities; (2) by securing due
investigation and fitting action in all cases; and (3) by repressing
mendicity.
The society confines its district operations to the Metropolitan Poor
Law District, but is glad to give general assistance, e.g,, by sending
information, to agencies outside that district.
Within this area the society seeks to bring about, side by side with
every Board of Guardians, the formation of at least one committee
containing representatives of the Board, and of all the charities at work
in the local Poor Law division, whether it be parish or union. The
society consists of a federation of such committees. *
Each committee raises and expends its own funds, but to be in union
with the society it must act on the general principles indicated by the
society’s “ Suggested Rules,” and must appoint representatives on the
Council, f
Each committee establishes an office to be a centre of charitable
organisation in its district.
It appoints one or more charity agents to act under its instructions,
and especially (1) to collect particulars as to the action of the charities
of the district, and the relief given by them, and keep such particulars
in an accessible form ; (2) to receive applications from persons referred
to the office, and to investigate their cases ; and (3) to keep up commu¬
nication with the relieving officers of the guardians.
The inhabitants of the district, whether subscribers or not, are
invited to refer to the committee all cases requiring investigation. If
requested so to do, it communicates the result of such investigation to
the person desiring inquiry, and should he wish to undertake the case,
leaves it in his hands. In the absence of such wish, the committee
deals with each case to the best of its judgment and ability.
The district committees desire to bring about a division of cases
between the Poor Law and the charities, and also amongst the various
charities, so that the most suitable agency may be solely responsible for
each case. Cases properly belonging to the Poor Law are, therefore,
passed on to the guardians. This class includes, strictly speaking, all
cases of destitution which are not taken out of it, by requiring a kind
or amount of relief which the guardians are forbidden to give. X But
the charities are generally willing to assist persons of good character, to
whom temporary aid is likely to be permanently useful. Cases of tem¬
porary distress, with evidence of good character and thrift, are therefore
looked on by the committees as suitable for private charity, § and are
referred to the charity which seems best able to take charge of them.
Where other charities are unable to afford the requisite assistance to
such cases, the committees assist them, if the funds intrusted to them
admit of this.
In giving such assistance the committees refuse to give small weekly
doles of food or money, believing that these undermine the independence
of the recipient. In suitable cases they willingly give assistance in the
form of loans, with proper security for repayment. They are ready
also, if adequately supported by their district, to give substantial assist¬
ance of other kinds, when it seems probable that this will raise
recipients to a condition of independence. They will gladly receive
letters of admission to convalescent and other hospitals, homes, &c., for
the use of persons who may need them.
The primary objects of the committees are to afford charitable insti¬
tutions and individuals an easy means of exchanging information, to
prevent unconscious overlapping of relief, to secure the investigation of
cases with a view to referring them to the most suitable quarter for
assistance, and to repress mendicity.
District visitors, dispensaries, and hospitals, are invited to refer to
the committees cases requiring investigation.
The committees usually issue tickets, bearing the address of their
offices, gratuitously to residents in their districts, and the public are
requested not to relieve any one not personally known to them with¬
out referring him to the office. Street beggars often refuse these
tickets because their cases will not bear inquiry. If the ticket is re¬
fused, but the beggar’s story appears as if it might be true, and as if
assistance were needed, the person begged of is recommended to take
down the name and address of the applicant, and to send it to the dis¬
trict office, or, if necessary, to the central office, with a request that the
case may be investigated.
The local Poor Law authorities have ample power to relieve ordinary
mendicants, but the charity agents are allowed, in cases of absolute
hunger, to give bread to be eaten on the spot; and special cases are
investigated, and either dealt with by the committees, or reported to
the person sending them, if this be requested in writing. If the appli¬
cant be resident in the district of another district committee, he will be
referred to the proper office.
To benefit the poor of London permanently, thought and personal
exertion are, above all things, required. The committees desire to
bring into council all who are interested in the condition of their poorer
neighbours.
They desire in every way to promote personal intercourse between
different classes, as they believe the absence of this to be one of the
greatest evils of city life, and they invite all willing to assist them by
visiting or in other ways, to send in their names to the office of their
district.
* The first district committee (Marylebone) opened its office, October, 1869.
t For further particulars with reference to the action of the Council in prosecuting fraudu¬
lent charities, and in other ways, and for a list of affiliated provincial associations, see
“ Objects and Mode of Operation of the Society.”
t See Minute of the Poor Law Board, 20th November, 1869.
§ The committees cannot undertake to find the pensions which chronic cases need; but
where individuals or special charities are willing to take charge of these, the committees
are ready to send them the names of persons ascertained to be deserving.
214
THE SPIRtTtALIST.
Nov. 2, 1877.
They earnestly deprecate the supposition that the committees, even
if supplied with money, will be able to do all the work of individual
charity.
They wish to make their offices centres of local information, to en¬
courage judicious work of all kinds amongst the poor, and to get many
more persons to assist in doing it.
Should there appear to be unnecessary delay on the part of com¬
mittees in dealing with cases, those who observe it will do the com¬
mittees real service if they will call the attention of their secretaries
to the fact. If the delay be unavoidable, an explanation of it can
then be given, and if it is owing to faulty management, the complaint
may lead to an improvement. Applicants will often return to those
who sent them, and,’ more or less intentionally, misrepresent the
action of the committees. Such complaints should also be inquired
into.
It must be remembered that cases which are rejected by the com¬
mittees have the Poor Law to fall back on; and that in such cases as
the Poor Law is suitable for, it is evidently better to make the Poor
Law do its work properly than to let a voluntary association relieve it
of the responsibility.
It is unquestionable that more harm than good is done by relieving
persons without thorough investigation. Experience shows that cases
of immediate, urgent want, are not so common as is sometimes sup¬
posed, and, when they exist, are to be met with in the homes of the
poor, rather than in the streets. Undeserving persons apply purposely
at unseasonable times, and under circumstances which make inquiry
difficult.
Due allowance must be made for the time required for investi¬
gation.
The usual practice of the committees as to inquiry is as follows ;—
1. The applicant’s own statement is taken down at the office by the
charity agent.
2. The office form is sent or taken to the relieving officer of the
Board of Guardians.
3. The persons of whom it may be requisite to make inquiries re¬
garding the applicant are seen or written to.
4. The charity agent, or other competent person, visits the house
of the applicant to verify his statements, and communicates with his
referees.
5. The statement of the case is sent to any local charity within
whose province the case seems to come, with a request that the way
in which the case may be disposed of be communicated to the office.
For further particulars as to inquiry, see Suggestions for Systematic
Inquiry (Knight), 2s. 6d. See also the Charity Organisation Reporter,
published every Wednesday during the sittings of council, and sent,
post free, from the Central Office, 15, Buckingham-street, Adelphi, for
forty weeks (the average issue for a year), for 5s.; A Handy Book for
Visitors of the Poor (Longmans), 2s; Annual Reports ; and other pub¬
lications of the society.
Brixton Psychological Society.—The usual monthly meeting of
this society was held on Wednesday, the 23rd inst, at 6, Loughborough-
road North, Brixton, when Mr. Fitz-Gerald, the president, read a com¬
prehensive paper on “The Spiritual Nature of Man.” He gave the
various meanings attached to the words, body, soul, and spirit, and
spoke of the value of the spiritualistic faith and revelation. A dis¬
cussion followed, in which Mr. Deane, Mr. Ashton, and Mr. Frances,
took part. The meeting closed with a cordial vote of thanks to Mr.
Fitz-Gerald.
M agio.—It appears from Churchill’s Mount Lebanon, from which we
glean these items, that Sheik Bechir has for some years devoted his
time, singular as it may appear, to the cultivation of magic, and the
stories he relates of his interviews with immaterial beings are novel and
startling. At times he will place a jug between the hands of two persons
sitting opposite to each other, when, after the recital of certain passages,
taken indiscriminately from the Koran and the Psalms of David, it will
move spontaneously round, to the astonishment of the holders. A stick
at his bidding will proceed unaided from one end of the room to the
other. On two earthenware jars being placed in opposite corners of a
room, one being empty, the other filled with water, the empty jar will,
on the recital of certain passages, move across the room. The jar full
of water will rise of itself on the approach of its companion, and empty
its contents into it, the latter returning to its place in the same manner
that it came. An egg boiling in a saucepan will be seen to spring
suddenly out of the water, and be carried to a considerable distance. A |
double-locked door will unlock itself. There cannot be a doubt that an
unseen influence of some kind is called into operation, but of what kind
those may conjecture who like to speculate upon such matters. But it
is in the serious cases of disease or lunacy that his powers are called
into play. Previous to undertaking a cure he shuts himself up in a
darkened room, and devotes his time to prayer and fasting. Fifteen and
sometimes thirty days are thus passed in seclusion and fasting. At last |
one of the genii, described by him to be much of the same appearance !
as human beings, will suddenly come before him and demand his bidding.
He then states his position, and requires assistance in the case he is j
about to undertake. The genius replies at once that his request is |
granted, and encourages him to proceed. . . . That the Sheik stoutly
maintains his intercourse with spiritual agents to be real and effective is
unquestionable; and indeed the belief in magic, and in the interposition
of an order of unseen creatures in worldly affairs, at the bidding of those
who choose to devote themselves earnestly to such intercourse, is !
universal throughout the entire population. . . . There are priests who
affirm that the Psalms of David contain an extensive series of necro¬
mantic passages, which, if thoroughly understood and properly treated,
would place the world entirely at man’s disposal, and invest him,
through their medium, with miraculous powers.—Religio-Philosophical
Journal, *
$oettg.
A CRY FROM INDIA.
Cold gods of fretted stone!
By jungle shade—by Ganges’ holy stream,
Arise ! appease, explain, this hell-fringed dream,
That haunts our foodless zone.
Fear’d car of Juggernaut!
Whose worshipp’d wheels, e’en roll so slowly, proud,
O’er quick-kissed ground, where bends the frenzied crowd,
Hast thou no harvest brought ?
Fond fire, unceasing—true!
Eternal light of India’s scented day,—
Oh ! mock us not, for thy rapt flames display
A beauteous, barren view !
Stray clouds, new manna rain !
Sweet mornings, breathe a fruit-creating dew!
With men, 0 angels ! yield an interview,
And soothe this ten-edged pain 1
No birds, or cymbal sound,
No boatman’s psalm adown the. winding creek
Can call the rose-bloom to the starveling’s cheek,
Whilst men, with thorns, are crowned!
Weak baby-wailings, blend
With mother’s wilder, far-extending cries ;
Quaint, dead-march music, rumbles in the skies ;
The famine pains extend!
Great Power! unseen of man 1
Oh! smile away the plague, and haste to bless :
Raise frightened palm-groves in the wilderness,
Nor purge with harshest fan.
Blow 1 spicy, eastern gales!
Call forth the soft rain’s holy overflow:
Oh! consecrate your whispers—and bestow
Grand speech to friendly sails.
Glide! ships of Tarshish ! glide,
O’er oceans, hallowed by our flag and fame :
Bear forth rich off’rings in Britannia’s name,
Be charity our pride.
Stay not to test the creed,
Or urge a rude comparison of skin,
The merciful themselves new mercies win,
And golden is the deed.
Bloom! sable mulberry 1
Creep amber shadows 1 through the orange plain ;
Take life, 0 sacred green! blush fruit again,—
Burst into majesty l
Sad chords of Moslem song,
Steal out in broader love and melody;
0 India! our love comes laden unto thee !
The choice gifts of the strong.
3, Crawthorn-street, Peterborough. John T. Marklby.
arormponunue.
[Great freedomis given to correspondents,wh,osomeUmesexpressopinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers."]
ASTROLOGY.
Sir,—My astrological prediction of the result of the race was about as
lucky as the predictions of other sporting prophets who derive their in¬
spiration from less occult sources. The time of the figure was incorrectly
copied by me, and so printed. It should have been Oh. 9 min. 14 secs, mean
time. I believe the signs and planets were correctly placed, but my
blunder must have been apparent to any one who had more experience
than mine. I mistook the lordship of Jupiter over Saturn for a good
aspect towards the latter.
But my attempt was rather made with a view to elicit some explana¬
tory comments from “ Aldebaran ” than with any expectation of success.
Horary astrology, of course, must not be judged by the experiments of
beginners, without knowledge of the principles of the science, if it is
one, and with imperfect acquaintance even with its rules. But surely
the test should be easy, as the practical importance of the science would
be enormous. I have little sympathy with the degradation of know¬
ledge to personal ends, but there is one thing that is much worse, which
is the superstitious regulation of action by an illusory light. Let us
know, if possible, what degree of definiteness and certainty belongs to
this branch of astrology. That there is “ something in it ” I have little
doubt. It is the amount and worth of this something that we want to
know. G. C. Massey.
Temple, Oct. 29th.  —
Sib,—In your issue of Sept. 14th ‘ ‘Aldebaran’’ recommends ‘ ‘ Haphael ’r
as a reliable astrologer. So do I.
About six years ago my attention was drawn to astrology. Being of
a practical turn of mind, and fortunately knowing the exact time of my
birth, I put the science to the test by getting several professional
astrologers, previously unknown to me, to calculate my nativity ; the
result was a marvellous correspondence in their leading conclusions,
both as to the past and the future. Of the past I was able to judge by
my bygone experience. The future predictions, so far, have proved
very correct. The inference is that the science is based on sound mathe¬
matical laws, but the reliability of the calculations entirely depends
Nov. 2, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
upon the knowledge of the science possessed by the calculator of the
problems before him. Thus much for astrology.
Astrologers as a body are a “ peculiar people,” hard to understand.
The pseudo practice of astrology affords ample opportunity to the dis¬
honest to dupe confiding and unwary folk. Few men of respectability
care to be for ever open to the clutches of an iniquitous law. Notwith¬
standing, both the practice and study of astrology are vastly on the
increase.
I found Raphael so straightforward and clear in his judgments that I
have often, during the last three or four years, appealed to him for his
astrological opinion upon events of importance that have arisen during
my active business life, and I cannot fafi to admit he has proved himself
thoroughly worthy of my confidence and respect.
I have been a student of nearly all the modern isms, and I know of
no other science that can give a man fuller knowledge of himself and the
laws under which he lives, and moves, and has his being. Astkal.
Sir, — It was with a considerable amount of pain that I read
Mr. C. C. Massey’s letter (in your last issue), under date October 23rd,
1877.
Considering the great prejudice which exists against astrology, the
fearful amount of vice and immorality connected with horse-racing, and
the necessary laws against betting and gambling, could no other illus¬
tration, or example of the rules of astrology, be found than the one
which high-minded, thoughtful men will assuredly shun ?
It does seem to me that Mr. Massey has made a most injudicious
selection of an example to publish; or he is purposely disparaging a
subject of which he declares (t he does not know anything.” I cannot
think the latter of Mr. Massey.
It is singular that, on the matter of “horse-racing” Lilly does not
give a single rule (see Bohn’s edition). And Zadkiel, although he gives
some short rules, makes this very pertinent remark, “ I would not
encourage any one in the pursuit of this pernicious, foolish, and dis¬
creditable practice, for the sake of mammon.” (Handbook of Astrology,
Yol. II., p. 93) J. W. R.
October 27th, 1877 (10.30 a.m.).
METAPHORICAL EXPRESSION.
Sir,—In an article by A. J. C. on Matter and Spirit, in The
Spiritualist of October 19th, we have this statement: “ Professor
Tyndall, in his interesting lecture given the other day, seems to be
thoroughly aware of the gulf—as yet impassable by scientific methods
or instruments—between matter and consciousness, and is evidently on
the look-out for the missing link in the chain which would unite them
together.”
Now, if we are to take this in its literal sense it is nonsense ; and if
it is only the misuse of metaphorical expression, it cannot be too strongly
condemned. All we can know of nature is the order and sequence
observed. You may as well suppose a gulf or chasm between an object
and its colour, or between a body and its motion, yet we know no more
of the reason of the colour or motion of a body than of the reason or
cause of sensation ; beyond the physical or neural state is all that mind
ia—that is, states of consciousness. I perceive, but the perception is
not a thing or separable from the percipient, and if Professor Tyndall
is looking out for a link between the two, I fear that he will have to
look a long time. Further, we must remember that conceivability is not
the criterion of truth in matters of science and philosophy, and that one
thing is not more wonderful or mysterious in nature than another.
When Tyndall asserts that ’* matter is mystical and transcendental at
bottom,” why suppose a special and greater mystery in respect to the
fact of mind and sensation, the genesis of all which is so very simple in
the observed order of occurrence ? At all events, the instincts of
animals that overleap, or are independent of learning and experience, are
at least as marvellous, and no one would suppose a gulf between the
animal and its instincts. Thought is a fact of the ego, whether it be an
animal ego or a human being, whether you regard the ego as a spiritual
body, or the visible physical one. Henry G. Atkinson.
Boulogne-sur-Mer. ■
a personal explanation.
Sir,—It was only yesterday that my attention was called for the first
time to a letter in The Spiritualist for October 19, on “ Spiritualism in
Ireland,” signed by “ J. Coates.” In the third paragraph of that letter
there is, what 1 think you and your readers would admit to be, a very
clear reference to myself. I am spoken of as “a Spiritualist, or who at
least was one." I beg to say that I am still a Spiritualist, and as much
so as I have ever been. I do not agree with, on the contrary I am most
strongly opposed to, many of the things said and done by Spiritualists
who are not at the same time Christians, and I judge all communica¬
tions that come through me or other mediums by what I understand to
be the Christianity of Christ, from which standard I claim no right of
appeal. At the same time, I should just as soon think of calling in
question my own personal identity, or the continuity of that identity, as
of questioning the reality of Spiritualistic phenomena. I am sure, I
may say I know, as far as a human being may be said to know anything
at all, that what we call the dead do communicate with those whom we
call the living, do sometimes show themselves palpably, and in other
ways give convincing proofs that they still live. Yes, I am still a Spirit¬
ualist, and not only am not ashamed of it, but glory in it. But I am a
Christian Spiritualist, and expect to be so to the end of the chapter.
Frederic Rowland Young,
Rose Cottage, Swindon, October 27th, 1877.
DREAMS AND THEIR PHILOSOPHY.
Sir,—A speaker at the Psychological Society once suggested that
apparently absurd dreams may not in reality have been absurd, but
215
j
i
I that perhaps we only remembered portions of them, the incongruity of
which made the whole appear ridiculous.
Last night I had a dream that the Welsh mountains were ten miles
east of Hackney Downs, and that I must at once write and inform a
j friend that we had hitherto been very foolish to take long journeys by
j the Great Western Railway in order to reach them. In my eagerness
i to impart the news of this important discovery, I awoke. I do not
see how this could have been the united fragments of any rational
experience.
Another theory of dreams I have heard mooted is, that they are
j spiritual verities, the truest of realities, but misunderstood because of
| the coarseness of our materialistic ideas. One day I received a parcel
i by London Parcels Delivery ; in the evening I dined with a clergyman;
I at night, in a dream, I saw that clergyman driving a Parcels Delivery
j van. I do not see how that vision represented anything occurring in
the realm of fact.
| The following anonymous statement is extracted from an American
I newspaper
“A night very seldom passes that I do not have more or less dreams
j —sometimes as many as five or six. When waking from them they
are generally vivid, but much less so in the morning, only the
skeletons remaining. Others are retained in their main features
several days, and then, becoming less and less distinct, fade away.
! Unlike many dreams we hear of, they do not seem to be prophetic
of anything, although in one or two instances only they have seemed
! to be of that character. Some of them relate to living persons of my
j acquaintance—seldom to the dead—and there again I find myself in
j mixed companies of strangers. I seem to be made a witness to, and
often an actor in, all manner of scenes and incidents; some of them
j being ludicrous and unaccountable in the extreme. I rarely witness
| scenes of a frightful and revolting nature. On some occasions, how-
| ever, I have witnessed personal altercations, and cruelty that made
! me shudder while dreaming and after waking. Many dreams are
| very pleasant and delightful. On a few occasions I have actually
| dreamed that I was dreaming, and that what I was witnessing or
doing was a dream. I dream of seeing persons I have known only
! by name or reputation, but never saw. I witness scenes and places
| and perform acts that never entered my mind before. I find myself
I riding in wagons, and in boats on water, and travelling among old ruins,
and the most varied scenery on land and water. I see birds, horses,
j cattle, flowers, forests, fields, and streams, and often go fishing, gene-
| rally with fair luck. What does it all mean ? Is it an effort by
spirit friends to develops clairvoyant powers of the brain or a clearer
j spiritual sight ? This dream problem seems to me to be one for the
I most advanced and scientific persons in the spirit world to elucidate,
j through some well developed medium, of whom they can get perfect
I control to clearly express their ideas. Will not some of them do
I so?” K.
| A society of Spiritualists has been formed in Copenhagen.
M. Aksakof has returned to St. Petersburg, improved in health,
after his prolonged sojourn in the Caucasus.
The young Duke of Leuchtenberg, nephew to the Emperor of Russia,
has returned from the seat of war to St. Petersburg. No news has
reached us of late of Prince Wittgenstein, who has been in the midst of
the hottest fighting in the Schipka Pass.
At the next Council meeting of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, a question of a little public interest will be brought forward.
\ Mr. Stainton-Moses will raise the question whether any seances under
) the auspices of the Association shall be allowed to be held in the dark.
( The Materialistic Difficulty.—The whole materialistic difficulty is
| well summed up and dismissed by Proudhon, the French radical. We
i I quote from Mr. Tucker’s translation in the first number of his Radical
(j Quarterly Review:—“ Something (which you call matter) is the occasion
) | of sensations which are felt by another something (which I call spirit).
(| Thus, whether philosophy, after having outgrown theological dogmatism,
(j spiritualises matter or materialises thought, idealises being or realises
) j ideas; or whether identifying substance and cause, it everywhere substi-
(j tutes force—phrases all of which explain and signify nothing—it always
I i leads us back to this everlasting dualism, and, in summoning us to
j believe in ourselves, compels us to believe in God, if not in spirits.”
Spiritualism in Newcastle.—On Monday evening, October 29th, Mr.
John Mould opened a debate before the Newcastle-on-Tyne Free De¬
bating Society, Weir’s-court, on “ Are the various adverse Theories
advanced sufficient to account for the facts of Modern Spiritualism ? ”
I He said that there were many opinions afloat in explanation of the facts
of modern Spiritualism, but subsequent reflection and analysis resolved
them into three orders :—The conjuring theory, the materialistic theory,
iand the Spiritualistic theory. He argued that each and all of these
theories were not of themselves, or combined, adequate to explain the
entire range of facts, and that the Spiritualistic theory alone explained
j some of them. On Wednesday evening next a debate will be opened on
i “ Spiritualism and the Devil,” by Mr. Matthew Platt.
Spirit Influence.—When perplexing or unpleasant thoughts arise
unbidden in the mind to disturb the soul’s tranquility, instead of yielding
| up the mental field to their occupancy, or of getting angered at their
[persistency in conjuring up distorted imaginings and wild fancies within
I the brain, we should at once become calm, and, in the utmost passivity of
| our being, quietly but firmly invoke the assistance of the good and pure
and the progressed intelligences, to enter into divine relationship with
our inner selves, and help us to free our spirits from the influence and
association of ignorant and unprogressed beings who are endeavouring
to turn our thoughts into an expression of their own low or degraded
conditions. In so doing, we shall overcome temptation, and rise above
many of the storm-clouds which would otherwise bar our progress into
1 the realm of serener light and \oy.—Kayner,
216
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 2, 1877,
AN APPARITION SEEN AT THE MOMENT OF THE DEATH
OF THE BODY.
The following case, so well attested in an English law
court, was calculated to perplex all readers before the col¬
lection, during recent years, of the great number of cases in
which the spirits of individuals have been seen at the death-
moment. In the instance about to be quoted, two new items
are imported, namely, the spirit is pursued by another
phantom, and both are said to have vanished in flames. Is
the district volcanic ? Did the ideas of the dying person
impress the observers, and present themselves as objective
realities ? If some of our legal friends would refer to the
official records of the trial, they might find further details
of interest.
The narrative is extracted from Kirby's Wonderful and
Scientific Museum, 2 vols., printed by Barnard and Sultzer,
Water-lane, Fleet-street, for R. S. Kirby, London House-
yard, St. Paul’s; and J. Scott, 447, Strand, 1803-4; vol.
ii., pp. 247—9.
Remarkable trial in the Court of King’s Bench, brought
by a Mrs. Booty against Captain Barnaby, to recover the
sum of one thousand pounds, as damages for the scandal of
his assertion, that he had seen her deceased husband, Mr.
Booty, a receiver, drove into hell.
On this remarkable trial witnesses were brought for¬
ward, who proved the words to have been spoken by Captain
Barnaby, and afterwards by his wife; the defence set up
was, that the defendant had spoken no more than had
been seen by a number of persons, as well as himself,
to prove which the journahbooks of three different ships were
produced in court, and the following passages recorded in
each, submitted to the court and the jury by the defendant’s
counsel.
Tuesday, 12tk May, 1687.—This day the weather came
S.W. a little, about three o’clock in the afternoon ; and
about four we anchored in Manson Road, and there in the
Road Captain Barnaby, Captain Bristow, and Captain
Brown, all of them bound for the island of Lissara, to load.
Wednesday, 12>th May.—This day, about ten o’clock in
the forenoon, I went on board of Captain Barnaby, and about
two o’clock in the afternoon we weighed, and sailed all of us
for the island of Lissara, The wind was W.N.W., and better
weather.
“ Thursday, \Uh of May.—About two o’clock we saw the
island of Lissara; and, about seven, we came to an anchor
off the said island, in twelve fathoms water, and then we
were at W.S.W.
Friday, Voth May.—We had the observation of Mr.
Booty this day. Captain Barnaby, Captain Bristow, Captain
Brown, I, and Mr. Ball, merchant, went on shore in Captain
Barnaby’s boat, to shoot rabbits upon Stromboli; and when
we had done, we called all our men together by us, and about
half an hour and fourteen minutes after three in the after¬
noon, to our great surprise, we all of us saw two men come
running towards us with such swiftness, that no living man
could run half so fast as they did run ; when all of us heard
Captain Barnaby say, “ Lord, bless me, the foremost is old
Booty, my next-door neighbour,” but he said, he did not
know the other that run behind; he was in black clothes,
and the foremost in grey; then Captain Barnaby desired
all of us to take an account of the time and pen it down in
our pocket books, and when we got on board we wrote it in
our journals, for we saw them into the flames of fire, and
there was a great noise, which greatly affrighted us all, for
we none of us ever saw or heard the like before. Captain
Barnaby said he was certain it was old Booty which he saw
running over Stromboli, and into the flames of hell.
Then, coming home to England, and lying at Gravesend,
Captain Barnaby’s wife came on board the 6th day of
October, 1687, at which time Captain Barnaby and Captain
Brown sent for Captain Bristow and Mr. Ball, merchant, to
congratulate with them, and, after some discourse, Captain
Barnaby’s wife started up and said: “ My dear, I will tell
you some news: old Booty is dead.” He directly made
answer : a We all of us saw him run into hell! ”
Afterwards Capt, Barnaby’s wife told a gentleman of his
j?j acquaintance in London, what her husband had said, and he
jjj went and acquainted Mrs. Booty of the whole affair; upon
j(j that Mrs. Booty arrested Captain Barnaby in a thousand
j ;| pounds action, for what he had said of her husband. Capt.
\i\ Barnaby gave bail to it, and it came to a trial in the Court
m of King’s Bench, and they had Mr. Booty’s wearing apparel
| brought into court, and the sexton of the parish, and the
j 1! people that were with him when he died, and they swore to
! j the time he died, and when he died, and we swore to our
jjj journals, and it came to the same time within about two
| | minutes; ten of our men swore to the buttons on his coat,
| | and that they were covered with the same sort of cloth his
| (j coat was made, and so it proved.
|t| The jury asked Mr. Spinks (whose handwriting in the
j j the journal that happened to be read appeared), if he knew
i [| Mr. Booty, he answered, “ I never saw him till he ran by me
| | on the Burning Mountains.” Then the judge said, u Lord
I | have mercy upon me, and grant I may never see what you
| j have seen; one, two, or three may be mistaken, but thirty
j ( never can be mistaken.” So the widow lost her cause.
) Miss Ktslingbury, Secretary to the National Association of Spirit-
( ualists, intends to leave New York on the eight of this month, so may be
( expected in London about the nineteenth.
( The National Association of Spiritualists.—When this Associa-
51 tion was inaugurated, a guarantee fund for three years was formed,
whereby certain good friends of the movement undertook, by special
(| subscriptions, to keep it free from debt. Its career has been so suc-
[ i cessful, that in the early part of this year there was some too precipitate
) j talk about not calling for the payment of the fund this third year at all,
(| but now, towards the close of the time, that idea is found to be im-
) j practicable. There was but a small balance in hand at the beginning of
) | this year, instead of the much larger balance at the beginning of the
\ | year before, and in 1877 it has had no extra income by means of a
)| bazaar, as in 1876. By the aid of the guarantee fund the expenses of
r i the National Association will be well covered for 1877, and if the current
(j expenses are not met altogether by the usual increase of ordinary mem-
Sj hers during 1878, towards the close of that year the balance to be paid
11 off will be so small, that in all probability a well-considered entertain-
11 ment or bazaar will cover any possible trifling deficiency. The Research
>| Committee of the National Association of Spiritualists carries on its
'j work by means of voluntary contributions, and as its funds are now
, | exhausted, while it has taken in hand the useful work of ascertaining
i i by self-registering machinery the variations in the weight of mediums
'I during manifestations, friends would do well to remit funds to it forth-
|| with, or its work will come to a standstill. To the management of this
i! committee the movement is indebted for the interesting fortnightly winter
•I meetings. The annual subscription paid by new members who join the
I National Association of Spiritualists during this and next month, covers
i j all the expenses of membership up to the end of the year 1878. These
II announcements are made from our general knowledge, but without the
, | authority of the Association, in order to give general readers a tolerably
>' accurate bird’s-eye view of how matters stand. We wish the National
' | Association attended so much to the preserving of the foreign literature
11 of Spiritualism as to give it a right to ask foreign Spiritualists to join as
' | ordinary members.
i Form Manifestations.—So long ago as the year 1868 Mr. Benjamin
• Coleman wrote in The Spiritual Magazine ;—“ From the result of this
'| experiment I now think we are entering on a new phase—that spirits
,1 speaking will be a common manifestation, that we shall soon obtain
11 these voices through many mediums, and perhaps realise the promises
1 which have been made to me several times during the last three or four
ij years, and doubtless to others, by spirit messages through the
alphabet, ‘We will walk with you and talk with you, as when on earth.
John King, too, has said that he will give us a surprise some day.
‘ Soon, we expect,’ he said, ‘to be able to show ourselves, and to talk
j with you.’ f What prevents your doing so now ? ’ I have asked. ‘ We
have not found the exact conditions, but we shall; I am always trying.
| One evening, when thirty-three persons were present, and John was
apparently bouncing about from one to another in a very excited state,
he suddenly said, ‘Strike a light! Strike a light!’ I lighted the
candle, and then asked him to rap three times when he wished it to be
extinguished. In a few minutes he did so, and I then inquired why he
wanted the light in such haste. He replied, ‘ The power was becoming
too strong for me to control, and I was afraid of mischief.’ I tried to
get some further information at that time, but could not, but subse¬
quently, when alone with the medium, I asked John to explain that
circumstance. He said, ‘We gather the electric effusion, which passes
from those around us and from a body, which is invisible to you, but
visible to us, and we occupy this body. Sometimes we can only make
part of a body, and then the manifestations are not so strong. Now, my
object is to make that body visible to you, and I try many experiments,
| which don’t always succeed, and then the power becomes too strong for
my control.’ John, as I have said, is a very erratic sort of personage,
and it is almost impossible to hold him to any serious point.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Aldebaran.—Please send us your name and address again, and let the public
know where to address letters to you. Several letters for you have been
in our hands some time.
Nov. 2, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Kepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
‘ who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn ifrom
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. ed.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6<L
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. Cd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums dalso about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. . G. F.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
offamous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The .Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science: the Spiriti and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.)
600 pp. Cloth 10s. Od.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s. > or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, ios. cd.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by.J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.  f
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Sees'."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ It. „
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. ' „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. ,, V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lycemn Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil ,
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The loner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
.<. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 fi
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 G
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
.30
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
24
16
Oriental Religions (Johnson)
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds ......
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. .......
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. .
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D.,’LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (aileged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer,M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation .of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . • ,
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ....
10 G
10 6
1 0
18 0
10 G
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accu/rate description oj- Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientiflc man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be •
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un ■
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. Gd. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.O.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
iv
THE SPIKITUALIST,
Noy. 2,.^77,
HE GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAY.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PBINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., P.R.S.E., Professor qf
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
INQUESTS. — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
invaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.’’—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“Ifeel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“YourFruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Sombre y, Oouncillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say too much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday* He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
| M. BERAL”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PH ARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
j the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effectof Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VIMesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—^Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odykc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be StudenL-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER Xli:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER Xlll:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XlV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
&c., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belucci, Florence, and other schools, will, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in her studio,
19, Holland-street, Kensington. Moderate prices to mediums
and Spiritualists.
WL. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address 0.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.O.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo. richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IM AGININ GS-.1
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Ciaxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
Ai Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10, The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother-in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe! ”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejato Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.1
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enj oy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads“ No one can help laughing
at them.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-hook, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusipg reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to he expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work Is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facinty of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Woboleiaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is hound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters' or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods. •
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire-to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lod.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in The Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
tfie Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
