Peghotebep as A Newspaper.
SK® joiTS(K®i< ^^YdSo^OG^idS^
(Dltef toHIj SpirxtwElxsm xxx $>xmt §rxkxxxt
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly’on'Sale at the following places :—LONDON: n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE;: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 328. (Yol. XIIL—No. 23.) LONDON: FBIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
The Venerable Order of Deacons   265
Physical Manifestations  ... ...  266
Poetry:—Spiritual Union ... ... ... - ...  ,   267
Correspondence :—“ An Old Woman’s Experience ’—Pri¬
vate Seances—The Creative Force of the Imagination
—Spiritualism in Glasgow—German Materialism
versus Spiritualism—Spirit Identity:    267
Captain Burton’s Address on Eastern Spiritualism  270
The Daily Telegraph and Captain Burton ...  270
Psyohographic Pictures 270
Spiritualism in Eastern Lands. By Captain B. F. Burton,
F.B.G.S., Hon. Member of the British National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists 271
Casting out Devils   ... ... ...     ... 276
Professor Huxley on Psychology 276
Answers to Correspondents 276
Paragraphs :—Cutting Open a Man to Prove his Death,
266; The Psychology of Music, 276 ; Mad Poets 276
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT BUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR DECEMBER, 1878.
Friday, 6th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Monday, 9th.—General Purposes Committee, at 4.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 10th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 13th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 16th.—Discussion Meeting. Mr. Stainton Moses,
M.A., on “ The Intelligent Operator at
the Other End of the Line.”
Wednesday, 19th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ ,, SoirCe Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 20th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ * ,, Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of the Association will be closed on Monday
evening, 23rd, and reopened on Monday, 30th.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mb. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W,
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science" (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess or
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougali Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. C.
Hall F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling*
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson.'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: _ 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Raul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and. 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago : Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c,, apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. Seo.
British museum lectures.—a
Course of Three Lectures (with the permission of the
authorities) will be given by O. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, Westminster
Hospital, during the Christmas week. Hours 11 to 1. Tickets
5s. each. Address C. Carter Blake, care of 38, Great Russell-
street, W.O.
Iadbroke hall, ladbroke
.1 GROVE ROAD, NOTTING HILL, W. (Not Netting
Hill Gate).
A SERIES OF SUNDAY SERVICES for the dissemination
of the Gospel of Spiritual Truth are in course of delivery in
the above Hall, by W. H. LAMBELLE, who will deliver a
course of addresses on the “ ORIGIN OF RELIGIOUS RITES
AND CEREMONIES.”
Doors open at 6.30 and closed at 7 promptly, to prevent
interruption during the progress of the Services.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following engagements:—Perry Barr Institute,
December 3,1878; New Swindon Mechanics’ Institute, January
8,1879. Coalbrookdale Literary Institute, January 21 (Second
time this season). Hastings, Gehsing Hall, Afternoon and
Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial Society, February
4. Leamington Institute, February 25. Croydon Literary
Institution, March 6 (2nd time). Favourable terms arranged
with Institutes en route. For particulars address Mr. Frank
Dietz, 54, Denbigh Street, London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz beg also to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland
Street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
January 15th, 1879, February 12th, March 12th, April 9th, May
14th, June 11th. Tickets for the Series One Guinea each.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
IMPOSSIBILITIES MADE PROBABLE.
Consisting of three propositions, viz.:—1. Vitality makes
Matter. 2. Soul is Omnipotent. 3. A Persistent Life Natural
to Man. By J. M. London: Charles Watts, 84, Fleet-street,
E.O. Price 6d
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager,
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Nov. 4.—Mr. Bonwiek, F.R.G.S., “ Soul Ideas amongst the
Ancient Egyptians.”
Nov. 18.—Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 1.”
Dec. 2.—Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., “Spiritualism in
Eastern Lands.”
Dec. 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ The intelligent Operator
at the other end of the Line.”
Jan. 6.—Baroness von Vay, “ Visions in Vessels of Water.” .
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings.”
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.” •
April 7.—Dr. Bloede, “ Psychometry.”
April 21.—Mr. O. C. Massey, “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise. '
June IQ*—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “Review of the Session."
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily b® worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, LudgateCircus Buildings,London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fec.
post free, seven stamps.
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
A LADY would be happy to offer her services
as AMANUENSIS or READER to an Invalid Lady or
Gentleman.—Mrs. Hamilton, Post-office, Walham Green, S.W.
A LADY SPIRITUALIST would be happy to
meet with another to share her superior residence,, and
join her in Spiritualistic investigations. A., 2, Scarsdale
Villas, Kensington, S., London.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 6, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President. I
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1,Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, DIdsbury. Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1 Bernard-vlllas, tipper Korwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridpe-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G-, M.s.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdoiigall,21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W-
Hopvwood. Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrlster-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyae.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.'
Binney, F A.. 24, St, Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Bouwick, J., F.R.G.S.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar.” Portsmontl).
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 5, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Obefstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59. Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate,N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton. Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westhourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Barf,, Lamport-hall, Northampton.
.Toad, G. C., Oakfield, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, ‘.Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W, 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearee, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C„ 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Relmers, Christian, 47, Mornington-road, Regent’s-park.
Strawhridge, Geo. Nelson,84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Morell. 62, Granville-paric, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Wnlhouse, M.J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedi.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withal!, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
3. TV. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdidCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein,
if. Gustave de Veb, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, IT.S. A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Brltten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town,South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Bey. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 .Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassomiiierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxel’es.
Lleut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A •
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hlll,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiajs,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Dotcn, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton *
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
" Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found. °f all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state oj trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Past I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XL Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “ I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resiirrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth:
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. Cd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Roughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday, and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Friday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross ,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 year s
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Barkeley-gardens, Oampden-hili,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Olairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
hury-square, London. Hours 10 to 6.
IVTR. HOWARD COTTON, Painting Me-
JjrJL dium, desires employment for architectural or other
drawings. Care of Pearce, stationer, Coleherno-terrace,
Redcliffe-square, Brompton.
MADAME ZACHRAU, the great American
Natural Clairvoyant and Phrenologist. Consultations
from 10 till 6, at 25, GranyUle-square, King's-cross-road,
London, W.O.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
-LA-. ITALIA—Rivista Psieologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vid Bogino, No. 23.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubjeot. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. Terms on ap¬
plication.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Oos-
sonnerie, Paris.
I Ip nuh ^i|it[$ xJ
Ko. 328.—Volume Thirteen; Number Twejmty-Thf^ee.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6th, 1878.
THE VENERABLE ORDER OF DEACONS.
A short time ago one of the most respected Spiritualists j
in London, innocently suggested at a public board meeting j
that the relations between an organised body of Spiritualists i
and mediums, should be similar to those which exist between j
ministers and their flocks. Presumably, he meant Dis- !
senting preachers, because in the Church of England the |
taught have little direct rule over the teacher. And what j
are the relations between Dissenting ministers and their j
flocks ? A number of average men band themselves j
together and pay a minister. Supposing the latter to be a j
common-place man, little superior to the dead-level of the |
average of his employers, and supposing him to kow-tow to i
deacons and deaconesses, who further increase his difficulties j
because they do not agree among themselves, he may j
manage to jog along through a humdrum life. But sup- j
posing him to be a man with a soul in his body, and j |
supposing him to incautiously conceive that it is his duty to i
teach a little true religion to the wealthy grocer or draper j
who is his head deacon, the indignation of that worthy i
functionary may be imagined. “What! After I pay”—he |
always lays great emphasis on pay—“After I pay Mr.
Boanerges to teach my doctrines, shall he dare to say from
the pulpit that righteous deacons, who never exact more than
their legal due, but who grind the faces of the poor and kill
their apprentices with over-work, are worse than the generous-
hearted among the c eternally lost ’ who never enter the doors
of church or chapel ? I never meant to pay this man for |
such dangerous teaching. I pay him to preach the true j
doctrine which I believe in.” Then the deacons hold meet¬
ings about the rash preacher behind his back, discuss his
mode of living, his dress, and where he buys his boots j
and muffins; they further consider the latest scandalous tea-
table rumour to the effect that the unfortunate wretch j
disguised himself in a black tie and went surreptitiously to |
the theatre when last in London. Thus they judicially j
deal with a variety of offences not recognised as such by the I
British law, and they adjudicate upon evidence in a manner |
unknown to courts of justice. Individuals of culture, aesthe-
tical proclivities, and of independence of character, cannot
live in the middle of this petty tyranny, and are soon re¬
moved from such an atmosphere by force of natural anti¬
pathy on both sides. The one order of mind can no more
live in contact with the other, than Mr. Buskin—who holds I
that tC a rogue’s religion is always the rottenest thing about j
him ”—could live in subserviency to a vulgar little deacon
who had made plenty of money, and fancied that he could
rule his superiors with the flourish of a cheque-book. The
best preachers among Nonconformists are driven away in
their youth by the system, and the Established Church re¬
tains its ascendency, notwithstanding that its greater
freedom permits the existence of occasional drinking and
swearing parsons. Some of the very cream of Nonconfor- j
mist preachers have told us of their experience of such i
grievances as herein set forth, which, moreover, are pictured
to the life in Mrs. Oliphant’s excellent novel, Salem Chapel j
(Blackwood), a work which Spiritualists should present to i
every chapel library in the nation.
Here and there a Nonconformist divine rises superior to I
the system which drags down the standard of his calling. !
The tables are then turned; the deacons all become faithful j
followers where it is useless to grasp at ascendency, and the j
man is too important to be excommunicated. Mr. Spurgeon j
is said to have remarked—“ Resist the devil and he will fly !
from you, but resist the deacon and he will fly at you.” j
Few other preachers dare to say this, however much it may j
be in their hearts.
Let us have as little as possible of this miserable system |
of petty tyranny inside Spiritualism, or let those who want I
it keep it to themselves. A little while ago principle was
departed from inside our movement, by the pronouncing of
a verdict, founded upon evidence which the experience of
British law courts has discovered to be insufficient to warrant
a safe decision. Probably the feeling was that it was de¬
sirable to make an example, in order to show the public
that Spiritualists want to hunt out imposture ; to effect this
object an abominable expedient, condemned by the British
law, was adopted, but with laudable intentions neverthe¬
less. The expedient was religiously, morally, and legally
rotten.
A man who is a natural tyrant, who is also so unfortu¬
nately situated that he has nobody to tremble at his man¬
dates, and is obliged himself to obey the orders of his
superiors, can usually revenge himself on Fate, and on a
| solitary victim, by the cheap resource of turning chapel
I deacon. Why do not the victimised preachers imitate the
I rest of the world, and go out “ on strike ?” If they were to
| announce that on a given Sunday they would preach from
I every pulpit on “ The Sins of My Deacons,” great would be
| the fluttering in the dovecots of Nonconformity. On that
| Sunday all the chapels would be full, and all the pews of the
| deacons denuded of their regular occupants, whilst over¬
flowing collections would break the hearts of the absentees.
I Meanwhile, if any preacher wishes to confide his misfortunes
to the breast of the general public, our columns are open.
We will help to exhibit stiffnecked deacons, and willingly
| undertake the functions of the youth in the venerable story,
j which sets forth that in the middle of a sermon a boy in the
j gallery began pelting with apples the heads of the deacons
below. The preacher paused. “All right,” said the boy,
j in a confidential tone, “ you go on preaching. I’ll keep ’em
j awake!”
The system of a teacher of the people receiving his
| appointment directly from those working immediately
| beneath him from day to day, operates powerfully against
the growth of religious and scientific truth. It tells against
| the spread of Spiritualism. Although clergymen who
| publicly avow themselves to be Spiritualists are tolerably
| numerous, we know but of one or two Nonconformist
ministers who do the same, and they deserve all honour for
speaking out the truth under the difficult circumstances.
Their flocks also deserve honour for omitting to fetter liberty
I of thought, and for recognising the principle that a minister
| has a right to hold opinions of his own at variance with those
I of his deacons. Few of the latter class are so tolerant as to
i j admit such principles for a moment.
The great central organisations of the different religious
; | sects vary in constitutional quality. The worst of them
II have boards of management which sit with closed doors,
! | which furthermore have altogether gagged the press connected
11 with their movement, and have been known to inflict suffer-
11 ing upon individuals, by acts springing from narrow-minded
11 intolerance. Anything like afree press in their movement they
[ | would oppose to the utmost, and they would hold Sir Roderick
• Murchison in contempt, for stating that the public interests
| demand that an organised public body should constantly
j I be acted upon by a healthy public opinion operating through
11 a free press. They would furthermore abominate any idea
\! of performing all their work openly before the eyes of men
j j like the local government boards throughout the country,
)! whose constitution is so good that no legitimate work can be
I i done within them, without the full knowledge of the
j! managers and the public. At the best of these local govern-
> | ment boards not a few of our members of Parliament learnt
| the principles of constitutional procedure, and the duties and
| responsibilities of public life, thereby receiving a useful
j education unobtainable in organisations established upon
|i worse principles. Whenever any organisation is formed
266
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 6, 1878.
inside Spiritualism it should be of the best kind, and the
members should decide at the outset the constitution they
intend to adopt, so that confusion may be avoided by the
managers knowing upon what principles they are required
to act, and that the public may decide whether they will or
will not combine to support the constitution selected.
Those who think that Spiritualist organisations and
mediums should stand in the same relation to each other as
deacons and ministers, might do well to consider the usual
close of those relations, as set forth in the following poem
by Elizabeth Cumings, in The New York Home Journal:—
“We need a younger man to stir the people,
And lead them to the fold,”
The deacons said. “We ask your resignation,
Because you’re growing old.”
The pastor bowed his deacons out in silence,
And tenderly the gloom
Of twilight hid him and his bitter anguish
Within the lonely room.
Above the violet hills the sunlight’s glory
Hung like a crown of gold,
And from the great church spire the bell’s sweet anthem
Adown the stillness rolled.
Assembled were the people for God’s worship ;
But in his study chair
The pastor sat unheeding, while the south wind
Caressed his snow-white hair.
A smile lay on his lips. His was the secret
Of sorrow’s glad surcease.
Upon his forehead shone the benediction
Of everlasting peace.
“ The ways of Providence are most mysterious,”
The deacons gravely said,
As wondering-eyed, and scared, the people crowded
About their pastor—dead.
“ We loved him,” wrote the people on the coffin,
In words of shining gold ;
Above the broken heart they set a statue
Of marble, white and cold.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS. ,
Last Saturday night I attended the semi-public seance j I
of Mr. C. E. Williams, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, London. | J
About fifteen persons were present, some seven or eight of j |
whom were Spiritualists more or less known to me, the j j
others were strangers. Mr. Rita, who possesses strong | !
medial powers as well as Mr. Williams, was among those j |
assembled, and during the stance the two mediums sat j
opposite to each other. All the sitters sat round a table |
with their hands interlinked, so that the hands of the i
mediums were never free from first to last. I was glad to j
discover that the use of the cabinet was abolished, the hold- 1
ing of the hands of the mediums giving far better evidence |
to strangers, especially when, as is often the case, the j
mediums sit for manifestations in private houses, off their J
own premises, and away from their intimate friends.
The best test manifestation of the evening was the flying
of a stringed wooden musical instrument, some two feet long, |
all round the large circle quickly in the dark, and resting
for a moment on- the head of every sitter in the circle. The
strings were sounded as if by fingers at the moment the |
instrument rested on each head. If any conjurer tried to do
this in the dark with the same great velocity, he would
necessarily cut somebody’s head open with the wooden |
corners, before he had performed the feat half round the (
circle. !
The next point was that a half-length materialised spirit |)
form showed itself inside the circle by means of a flashing j s
light in its hands, over the table, five or six times. This is m
a common and well-verified manifestation, but strangers j j
seated on the opposite side of the circle might, last Satur- j (j
day, have supposed that it was done by a confederate released j j |
by those next him, were they not aware that the same j j
manifestation has been commonly obtained, while the same j |
mediums have been held by both hands, in the homes of j j
private families of high respectability. ■ >1
As to the intelligence connected with these forms, unscien¬
tific members of circles so commonly, by leading questions
and otherwise, force their theories and opinions into the
mouths of the spirits, that the latter have small opportunity
to make unbiased utterances for themselves, and the will¬
power of the circle, acting primarily upon the medium,
seems to exercise a proportion of mesmeric control over
them and their remarks. A practical acquaintance with
mesmeric experiments is essential to forming proper con¬
ceptions of a portion of the phenomena of spirit circles.
Any Spiritualist who knows nothing of mesmerism will
modify his previous views considerably after he has seen a
hundred experiments therein.
The manifestations already described are common, I
know, indeed so ordinary that the majority of Spiritualists'
are weary of them; but it is necessary to record them again
and again for the benefit of the ever-increasing circle of new
inquirers into Spiritualism, who require facts not of a sub¬
jective nature, to work upon.
So far as professional physical mediumship is concerned,
it tends to the comfort of mediums and their best friends if
the former never sit with the public unless they are held
hand and foot, and, where it is possible, off their own
premises. Then, whether spirits or mortals play tricks, the
mediums must be held blameless ; whereas, if the latter are
free to play tricks if they like, they are sure to be credited
with so doing if anything doubtful occurs, and, indeed, they
almost deserve it for carelessly leaving such priceless phe¬
nomena open to question. This was the first fime I had
seen Messrs. Williams and Rita since their return from
Amsterdam, and I hope they and other mediums with the
same kind of power will hereafter enable Spiritualists
everywhere to say :—fi Our materialising mediums never sit
for manifestations in the presence of disbelievers, without
being held hand and foot, and they prefer being so held in
private homes, where confederacy is impossible, rather than
on their own premises.” Conjurers cannot do this without
proving themselves to be mediums who are swindling the
ignorant public by presenting genuine phenomena as jug¬
glery. New mediums cannot do it, so much competition
may be disarmed, for it takes long for the power to deve-
lope to such an extent as to permit such manifestations. If
spirits play tricks and practical jokes, as some of the more
earth-bound often do, the mediums will, nevertheless, be
held free from blame if responsible witnesses certify that
their hands were continuously in custody.
W. H. Harrison.
38, Great Russell-street, London.
Cutting Open a Man to Prove his Death.—If the words “post¬
mortem examination,” in the following case, quoted from The Weekly
Times of Dec. 1st, bear their ordinary but not literal interpretation of
the opening of the body of the deceased to examine the interior, the
performance of the operation in this case is specially exposed to the
criticism of psychologists, who know that prolonged trances, resembling
death, are more common than orthodox doctors are aware. Is the
newspaper report itself trustworthy?—“ At a recent inquest at Leigh,
near Southend, a doubt was raised by the jury as to whether the sub¬
ject of the inquiry was really dead, and a brief adjournment had to be
made for a post-mortem examination. The deceased was James
William Osborne, fifty-eight, fisherman. He was shrimping on board
a smack in the Thames, off Grays, when he appeared to become giddy
and fell down twice, the first time into the hold of the vessel. After
the second fall he did not move again, and two or three surgeons who
saw him declared him to be dead. His usual medical attendant, Mr.
Jones, of Leigh, gave evidence at the inquest. The foreman of the
jury, Mr. W. Foster, said that he and other members of the jury were
not at all certain that Osborne was dead, and they thought that Mr.
Jones had better ascertain definitely. The Coroner remarked that he
was ready to guarantee that the man was dead. The foreman said
that Osborne certainly looked as life-like as ever. He had seen brothers
of Osborne remain in a state of torpor, and appear to be dead for hours
together. He wished to know whether it was not possible for a man
to seem as if he were dead, when in reality only in a fit or trance ?
The Coroner said it was possible that a man might lie in such a state
for months. Mr. J ones went and examined the body, and on returning
into the room, said that so far as he could see, life was extinct. There
was but one other way of proving that the man was dead, and that
was by a post-mortem examination. The foreman and other members
of the jury said they would like to be certain. The inquest was then
adjourned for an hour, and in the meantime Mr. Jones made a post¬
mortem examination. He stated, as the result, that he found the man
to be quite dead, and the probable cause of death was congestion and
inflammation of the brain. A verdict was returned in accordance with
this evidence,”
Dec. 6, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
267
SPIRITUAL UNION.
There is a sacred tie that binds
Congenial minds together;
A silent mingling, heart with heart,
Almost unknown to either.
And this sweet influence may be felt,
When not a word is spoken ;
And to the outward sense there seems
To be no sign or token.
Yes, those who ne’er had met before
May meet, and then be parted ;
And though no words may pass between,
Feel they are kindred-hearted.
And when such spirits meet and join
In converse with each other,
How free the interchange of thought!
No feelings there to smother.
It is not fashion’s formal chat,
The inmost soul congealing ;
But that the free unbridled tongue
O’erflows the fount of feeling.
And though they part and sever wide,
As to an outward union,
Still they may often know and feel
A near and sweet communion.
They meet not with the bow and nod,
A cold and formal meeting,
But with the open heart and hand,
A true and friendly greeting.
0 ! give to me a few such friends,
Who are with life contented,
And free from custom’s heartless forms
Our souls shall be cemented,
I care not whether rich or poor,
Of high estate or lowly,
If pure in heart and noble mind,
Of purpose high and holy.
The Lone One.
arorresponuence.
1 Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]  
“ AN OLD WOMAN’S EXPERIENCE.”
Sir,—“ Your experience ought to be given to the public,” friends
have long persisted; but I confess to feelings of delicacy and reluctance
in undertaking to set it forth. I was eighty last July. What I am to
relate took place one summer twenty years ago.
I had been in failing health through the winter—could not tell what
was the matter—supposed it was an old complaint. What I first noticed
as peculiar was the moving of my hands without my volition. They
were thrown over my head in a singular way, and made to pass over
my weak eyes again and again. These exercises were quite violent in
the morning before I got up, causing the bed and floor to vibrate. I
was able to be about the house at the time; but the movements soon
became so rough and uncontrollable that I was obliged, in order to
escape observation, and not alarm persons going by, to betake myself to
another building farther from the road, where I was shaken and made
to jump up and down in a most astonishing manner.
At this point I became much concerned, and prayed earnestly to be
released from the influence which had me in hand, or that I in some
way might be made to know what I was wanted to do. I knew little
about Spiritualism—never had been to a circle; indeed, the little I
had learned had made me quite distrustful concerning it; but
believing I was under the control of an intelligent power, I entreated to
be given some clue to its character and purpose, and finally inquired,
mentally, if it would not make my hand strike my breast three times
for “ Yes,” and carry it in the opposite direction once for “ No ? ” I
thought if it could use my limbs so freely, in spite of my resistance, it
might go further, and use them in a way to indicate its wishes. In an
instant came a response. My hand struck my breast three times with
great rapidity. f< Do you want me to write? ” I asked. “ Yes,” was the
reply. I took a slate and went upstairs, without letting any one know
what was going on. My hand wrote these two words, ‘‘George
Combe.” That was all. To this chamber I afterwards retired when¬
ever I was violently shaken, but for some time nothing appeared on the
slate but George Combe! George Combe! George Combe! I well
remember how the name looked, and the peculiar form of the
capital G.*
After a few days my hand began to write other names—names that
were familiar—family names for the most part, but I kept everything
secret. Even my two grown-up daughters living with me knew nothing
about the matter at this time, except the shaking given me before rising
in the morning. I wanted to reach some good result, if possible, or at
least something reasonably satisfactory, so that I should not be laughed
at when I came to tell the story. But I was growing weaker and weaker
* I afterwards learned that I was made to write this name “ George Combe" in order that
I might identify my control—the spirit of Doctor N. He was onr family physician many
years before. While acting in that capacity he prevailed upon me to read Combe's Constitu¬
tion of Man, a work in which he was deeply interested.
I every day. My hand moved so rapidly when writing on the slate that
considerable noise was made, and when I became so reduced that I was
I obliged to remain in bed, I asked—still wishing to keep the matter
| private—to have my hand moved quietly, and, finally, to have the letters
traced on the counterpane. This was done, and after a time I read the
characters thus outlined as easily as when written on the slate.
One day towards evening my fingers slowly traced these words: “ Now
j you must do just as we tell you. Lie on your back, and press your feet
firmly against the footboard.” A short time before, I had been made to
tie two corners of a shawl together and loop it over one of the posts at
I the foot of the bed, and now I was directed to rise occasionally to a
j sitting position, to take hold of the shawl and pull with all my strength,
at the same time pressing against the footboard with my feet. I
laboured in this way during the entire night, though hard to believe
that any good would come of it. Once I bantered the control, who
responded, “ You are going to have something, and must do just as we
tell you.” The control always wrote “ we,” as though he was the
mouthpiece of a committee or council. I toiled on.
At daybreak something within me gave way. I was suddenly re¬
lieved. The bed was drenched with water. I tried to get out of
bed, and succeeded. I was very weak, but managed to drag myself
to a lounge near by, and then lost consciousness. My hands and
feet became cold, and the heart apparently ceased to beat. My hus¬
band was with me; but he slept profoundly during the greater part of
the night. He was aroused, however, early in the morning, and
called the girls, when I fainted on the lounge. As soon as I came to,
indeed, I had hardly reached a sense of external realities, when I was
soundly belaboured by my own unwilling hands. My life thus impor¬
tuned returned in larger measure ; but the black-and-blue spots on my
breast—the records of that beating—remained for many weeks. At
length I was helped into bed, and I did not leave it again—this was the
eleventh of July—until September.
The girls insisted, against my wishes and instincts, on having medical
attendance, and, as it happened that a doctor with whom we were well
acquainted came riding down the road while the matter was under con¬
sideration, it was thought best to ask him in. He advised stimulants,
called again the next day, but being an honest man as well as a good
doctor, came no more thereafter. He told a neighbour—the girls were
informed—that he was not a-going to run up a bill there, for she could
not get well anyway.
The voluntary abandonment by the doctor was a providential indica¬
tion to my mind that I should look in another direction. But we were
in the midst of relatives, who soon learned the condition I was in, and
came flocking to see me once more. “ You must have a doctor,” they
said; “ while there is life there is hope. There is old Doctor P ,
try him.” I was overruled, but referred the matter to my invisible
counsellors. They demurred at first, but finally acquiesced. “If we
can handle his pill-bags,” was traced on the counterpane, “ we’ll allow
him to come.” This doctor was noted for giving overdoses. His pro¬
fessional experience, however, was large; it reached back forty years,
and his practice was still extensive. He understood the liabilities of his
patients of that day, having doctored their fathers and mothers. He
was called to my bedside. “ No,” he replied, in answer to my inquiry;
“ I remember only one case of sickness like yours in my experience.”
This was the third day after that memorable night. The watery dis¬
charges continued. I was growing emaciated, had no appetite, ate a
very little porridge the first day or two, after which my stomach would
retain nothing. Dr. P wanted me to eat notwithstanding, and the
relatives who kept coming, said, “ Now, you will certainly die if you
don’t eat.” Then my fingers traced, “ Don’t you mind what they say.
You are not going to die now; we will take you through if you will
listen to us, and do just as we tell you.” But I kept sinking—sinking.
At length my hand and arm became too weak to trace letters on the
counterpane. These were the last words thus formed: “ We cannot use
your hand in your present state, but are not going to desert you. We
can read your thoughts, and you can now hear what we say. Hence¬
forth we will converse in this manner.” I soon learned this was true.
I could hear invisible beings talk—not through the natural ear; the
voices seemed like echoes in the top of my head. Such a sense of pro¬
tection, such a feeling of thankfulness as I then had! I could speak
only in a faint whisper, so was obliged to hold my gratitude in my heart.
Had I been strong, how I would have poured it out! I listened. “ Now
you ask the doctor to get some oxide of iron and wine.” Oxide of iron !
I had never before heard of that medicine. “Ask him if he doesn’t
think it would be good for you.” He was then sitting close by the
bedside, watching me. I gave him a glance, and he leaned over and
put his ear close to my lips in order to catch my words. “Yes,” he
slowly replied, with a puzzled look, “ I guess it would.” Again the
voice, “ Tell him it had better be old wine, and ask him if he hasn’t
some in his cellar.” Again his curious look before his slow reply,
“ No, but I will get some old port wine.”
The next day the medicine was ready, and the doctor, true to his
good fame, administered a big dose— double the amount I should have
taken. I was made dizzy and sick by it, and told him he had
given me too much; it had made me drunk. “ Well, never mind,”
he replied soothingly, “ I won’t say anything about it.” I was
too weak to take any the second day, but the voice said, “ We
will tell you how much to take, and when to take it.” This was
the way the medicine-giving w:as afterwards managed, except when the
doctor attended to it himself. For several days this mixture was all
that passed my lips. It was both food and medicine. At length there
was a change. I heard my mentor say—“ Now make the doctor get you
some Jesuit’s bark, and be sure and get the right kind, the kind that is
rough like a goat’s beard.” A strange kind of bark, I thought, and
when I whispered these words into the doctor’s ear, he looked into my
face a longtime before speaking. “ I know what you mean,” he finally
said, “ but that kind is not in the market now. It is called Peruvian
268
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 6, 1878.
bark these days.” He procured the best he could find, he told me, and | J
it was regularly given to me, alternating with the wine. j (
About this time I began to take sage tea, without sugar or cream, j j
The voice said, “You may take two tea-spoonfuls five or six times a
day.” This, with the wine and Peruvian bark on alternate days, was ! |
all that I swallowed during six weeks—the pint of wine, the quantity j (
the doctor procured, just lasting me through this period. I became j I
very weak—so weak I could not raise my hand to my head ; but was i (
many times uplifted and sustained in a sitting position by invisible i (
hands. “ It will do your head good to sit up,” I was told, “ and we will j [
mesmerise it.” j
Baths were given me from time to time by their direction—a mild i j
form of bath, of course, but of much importance in their estimation. I [
On one occasion the need was very urgent. ‘‘ You are suffering for a hand j
bath. Get your daughter at once to give you one P were the words that j (
broke into the chambers of my brain. One daughter was away teaching i >
school, one was busy preparing dinner—no one else in the house at the !
time. I could see her occasionally flit by the doorway. She caught my i (
beckoning gesture, and came to the bedside. 0 ! yes; she would give j
me one without delay. Dinner could wait. A towel and some tepid j
water were brought; then giving me a little lift which placed me in the j
grasp of other hands, her own were left free to apply the water, and to (
wipe and rub my body to the satisfaction of all concerned. The bed j
was then lightened up, and I was again laid upon my pillow much
refreshed.
One day, when I was very, very low, the doctor sitting by the j
bedside, and my eyes and attention centering on him, with what j!
startling distinctness did I hear the injunction, “ Lean towards us, \)
and not towards the fore side of the bed! That way is the world and j l
death! This way is life! ” My attention was at once turned into | (
another channel; I was made to lean the other way, and firmly held in | >
that position, supported, I know not how, but by something that seemed j (
as unyielding as marble, and yet as soft as wool. i j
Yes, I was quite despondent at times, almost despairing, and ready to [ | j
give up the struggle, so slender was my hold on life. Then it was my j I [
invisible friends began to divert and amuse me. I was told little inci- j j
dents of a humorous character that occurred in my early years. So | j I
vividly were they brought to mind that I laughed and laughed, while | (j
hovering on the verge of the other world. Here is one of the many j j i
that lured me out of the gloom: “Do you remember, Susan,” the voice i j j
began, “ that little affair with Abel Davis, the lad who used to shine I (i
around you, at about the time you entered your teens ? how he went up | > j
to your father’s one day, and stayed around there, waiting till school I (j
should be out; and your father being busy asked him, when it was | (j
time, to take the bay horse and ride up to the school-house, and bring j j j
you home ? There had been a fall of snow, you remember. Abel could j (i
not have been told to do a nicer thing, could he ? O, he was cranky when | j
he set out! He told your brother Jesse, 1 By-and-by you’ll see me m
come riding back here, with Susan on behind! ’ But pride must have j |
a fall, hal ha! You wouldn’t ride with him, after all, you know, but | ('•
made your brother Ezra ride front in his place, while he, poor fellow, j j |
could do no better than trudge along behind you, in the path made by ! h
the horse. Your folks were immensely tickled. Father said, ‘ Well, | (|
Susan, you have mittened Abel, have you.’ ” How I laughed over this | j
reminiscence. It seemed but a short time, so perfectly was 1 tran- j j
sported to those days, when the circumstance happened. So story I (!
succeeded story, enough to fill a volume, all droll and jubilant; and in j J |
this way the tide was turned. I began to improve, grew stronger day | (|
by day, was carried over that gulf of torment, sleeplessness, lasting nearly i | i
two weeks, after which all things seemed to bear me healthward. ! (j
I have told but a little of my experience, after all; I have only i (i
touched upon the most striking passages. Very many details and expla- j j j
nations now thronging my mind with more or less persistence might be | (I
added ; but perhaps this will do. The friends whom I did not see, but | (i
whom I felt and heard, were faithful and true. When I recall their | j j
blessed ministrations, I am thrilled with gratitude and joy. I thank i (|
God for sending them on their errands of mercy. They did more than j (I
heal my body; they brightened my faith. They made the spirit-world | j j
so real to my hitherto unbelieving heart, that not a doubt has since I (j
clouded its immortal skies. Susan Underwood. | (
Oneida, Madison Co., N.Y., U.S.A., Nov. 20th, 1878. | j j
PRIVATE SEANCES.
Sm,—Will you kindly allow me space in the columns of your paper |
to state the result of two stances held at the house of Mr. Burgess,
Fitzroy-street, Cambridge, on Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 25th and
2§th respectively ?
The Association of Spiritualists had determined upon inviting Mr.
Williams down that we might see some of the, to us, higher forms of
spirit power. To our gratification he consented to come and give us
two sittings ; Monday and Tuesday were the days fixed for them to take !
place, Mr. and Mrs. Burgess in their usual kind way entertaining the i
medium and other friends.
We sat down at about 8.30 p.m. to a circular table, on which were
placed a musical box, violin, guitar, and table bell, the usual conditions
oeing observed. I must here state that there were fifteen ladies and
gentlemen of the town and university. Mr. Williams was placed j
between two of the circle, who each held one of his hands, they in turn
being held by others, so that forming a complete circle it was impossible \
for one to move without the others instantly being made aware of the
fact, and this order was strictly maintained during the whole of the |
time the seance lasted.
At first rappings were heard proceeding from the table, then the |
musical box was wound up and set going, the bell was rung violently,
at the same time the violin and guitar were also heard; the instruments j
were then taken and floated rapidly about the room, many times touch¬
ing the ceiling about nine or ten feet high. Our hands, faces, and 1
heads were stroked by unseen hands. The voices of John King and
Peter were heard in different parts of the room; rings were taken from
the hand and necktie of two of the circle, and instantaneously conveyed
to others sitting some distance off, in fulfilment of a promise made the
night before. Peter took a pencil and wrote his name upon the ceiling ;
two of the circle were grasped by the hands and drawn successively
upon the top of the table, at the same time the instruments were going ;
and last, but not least, the spirit form of Peter suddenly materialised,
and was seen standing upon the top of the table.
The next day another seance was held; the manifestations were much
of the same character, except that John King wrote his initials upon
the ceiling, and materialised three times standing upon the table.
Little “ Billie ” was also with us, stroking us and touching us on the
face, head, and hands, he as usual appearing delighted to do what ho
could for us.
Well, sir, as for the facts above mentioned, here are fifteen intelli¬
gent ladies and gentlemen ready to vouch for their accuracy. It is not a
matter of opinion with us now whether Mr. Williams is a genuine
medium; it is simply a matter of fact, but I will make no comment.
I leave facts to speak for themselves; we are ready to answer any
inquiries which may be made.
Wm. Chapman,
Member of the Cambridge Association of Spiritualists.
7, Fitzroy-street, Cambridge, Nov. 30th, 1878.
Sir,—Will you kindly insert in your paper the following account of a
seance held last Sunday evening in my house by Mr. Rita, under the
strictest test conditions ?
The only persons present were myself and my wife, and after searching
Mr. Rita’s pockets, we sat down to a table and held his hands without
one moment’s cessation during the whole time—three-quarters of an
hour. We sat in a room behind the shop, the only door being locked
and the only window fastened. After about ten minutes’ silence we
were touched by hands varying in size (one a child’s), and two distinct
spirit voices conversed with us. Then Charley, after throwing out some
beautiful lights, showed his face four times distinctly. It was the face
of an old man with strongly marked features, and short white hair and
beard.
A small musical box was taken off the table and floated in various
parts of the room, playing all the while. Mr. Rita was entranced the
whole time, and to our certain knowledge never stirred from his chair.
I should add that we are well acquainted with Mr. Rita, who has
given many seances here to the great satisfaction of ourselves and
friends, but at his own request the above-mentioned was held under
strict tests. R. Cocker.
74, Dalston-lane, London, December 3rd, 1878.
THE CREATIVE FORCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
Sir,—In Mr. Atkinson’s interesting letter in last week’s Spiritualist,
he quotes Bacon’s use of the word “magical'’ with regard to “the
fundamental and profound ‘ magnetic ’ law of life.” A writer less
well known, but who traces causality many degrees deeper than Bacon
could—the seer, or (as some like to call him) the fanatic Jacob Bcehme
—in many parts of his obscure writings refers to this magic, this creative
force of imagination.
A few extracts, bearing on this subject, from works not easily got at,
and when first studied likely to perplex, may be welcome, I think, to
some of your readers. They are but samples from a rich mine of theo-
sophic and psychological truth.
“ The soul, together with its blood and water, is in the outward blood
and water, but its substance is magicall, for the soul is even a magicle
fire, and its image or form is generated in the light (in the power of its
fire and light), out of the magicle fire, and yet it is a true image in flesh
and blood, viz., in the original thereof. For as fire must have substance,
if it must burn, so the magicle fire of the soul also, hath flesh, blood,
and water.”—Jacob Bcehme’s Six Small Points. Point 1. Par. 2, 3.
Date 1620.
“ A spirit proceeding out of nature is a magicle fire source or quality,
and is desirous of substance, or of the substantiality of its forme ; the
desire maketh substance, and bringeth that substance into its imagina¬
tion—that is the magicle fires, viz., the spirit’s corporeity, whence a
spirit is called a creature.”—Jacob Bcehme’s First Apology to Balthasar
1'ylcTten, Part 1. Par. 186.
“ The centre of everything is spirit, from the original of the Word.
The separation or distinction in the thing is own self-will, of its own
self-impression or compaction; where every spirit introduceth itself into
substance, according to its essential desire.
“ The formability of bodies existeth out of the experience of the
willing, where everything centres as a piece of the outspoken word, &c.
—out speaketh itself, and compriseth or frameth itself into separability,
or distinguishability, after the kind and manner of the Divine speaking.’’
—Jacob Bcehme's Knowledge of God. Par. 11.
And William Law, Brnbrne’s English expositor, says—“This magia
or imaginative property which hath desire for its rock and mother, is the
greatest power in nature ; its work cannot be hindered, for it creates and
substantiates as it goes.”—W. Law’s Appeal to those who Doubt. Page
169. ' A. J. Penny.
Cullompton, December 2nd, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW.
Sir,—Spiritualism cannot be said to be flourishing in this city; never¬
theless, it is making undoubted headway. It is doing a mighty work in
the churches, unconsciously permeating the sermons and lectures of
leading divines—men who would shrink with horror at the possibility
of doing such a thing. I find that those lectures or sermons which
depart from the confines of Calvinistic theology the farthest, attract the
Dec. 6, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
269
greatest audiences; in a word, I find Spiritualism here, minus its name, i j ]
But Spiritualism as represented by an organisation is not what it might \ \ |
be or can be. The Society is composed of men of marked individuality |) |
of character; men who have dared to be radical, to think for themselves, | (
each possessing decided views of his own. It will take some time 111
before these good stones are rightly moulded, by greater experience and j) j
more spirituality, to fit firmly into a sound foundation for the erection of j < |
a spiritual temple in this place. But these are earnest men, and we may, ] j |
without the gift of prophecy, look forward for better times spiritually j J J
for Scotland. ... is
To give the readers of The Spiritualist an idea of the quiet and sure j)
way in which Spiritualism is spreading, two ministers of the United !)
Presbyterian Church called at my rooms, and inquired if I could cure a I j
sore throat by mesmerism, to which I gave a suitable reply, according to m
the impressions I had at the time. One of the rev. gentlemen then |) I
asked me pointedly—Did I heal by mesmerism as generally understood, j < |
or was I aided by spirit-power? My reply was, “I heal by spirit- j>
power, mesmerism being the process adopted.” The result was that |)
the diseased one came ; I saw, and conquered. The leaders and j (
teachers of the people know a great deal more of Spiritualism than they |;
are willing to admit, for, as of old, “ they fear the people,’’ and u they i)
hunger after the loaves and fishes.” i s
The state of commercial affairs here is frightful; there is a depressed j)
condition of trade, the outcome of previous inflation, and roguery in j j
high places. The failures in this city alone since the 1st of October j s
amount to some twenty-two millions. Over a thousand men are fed and i)
get a shilling a day from the Corporation, and the number is daily j}
increasing. Thousands of families that were in comfortable circum- j s
stances before the great Bank smash are now ruined. Some have found I)
a resting-place in the grave, others are drivelling lunatics in the asylum, i)
and the rest see penury and grim 'want staring them in the face. This j \
being the case, it is scarcely surprising that Spiritualism as a public j)
movement should suffer also. Such indeed is the great struggle made i)
by thousands to keep body and soul together, or, rather, to find food for 11
the body, that they have no time, no thought, or feeling for what are to |)
them the “vain babblings” of some would-be Paul concerning things j)
spiritual. ' | s
The meetings of the Glasgow Spiritualists’ Association have not j)
been crowded to overflowing, but I understand the attendance has been !)
better than for some time past, although the collections have not been so j j
good. I have attended about ten public meetings of the Association i)
since I have been here, and I must say both variety and interest have j j
been well kept up by the management; tho only pity is that more of the ! s
public were not present on these occasions. Mr. Duguid, trance i j
medium, of Kirkcaldy, has twice delivered excellent addresses in point j j
of matter and delivery. Mr. Potter, a gentleman who occupies a j {
prominent position amongst the Unitarians, has lectured for the j j
society; his utterances are greatly valued for their breadth of thought, 11
and the intense earnestness with which they are placed before his | j
hearers. Mr. Harper, of Birmingham, gave an eloquent address on i j
“ Financial Reform,” in which he introduced some startling propositions | )
which it may, perhaps, be possible to carry out, but the prospect is not j j
very cheering. Mr. Harper is an earnest, whole-souled Spiritualist, | j
ready to give his best thoughts, efforts, and means to the cause, and is !)
about shortly to publish his ideas upon the subject of “ Financial j j
Reform.” Mr. Harper is well thought of in Glasgow, and secures good j )
audiences when he comes. Mr. E. W. Wallis, of London, is now ])
lecturing under the auspices of the society; he is doing a good work, j (
harmonising jarring elements amongst us, and his genial presence and | j
unostentatious manner are not without their influence for good. Mr. j)
Wallis’s guides have lectured upon subjects selected by his hearers on I j
the last two Sunday evenings, and the intervening Tuesday night; the j)
subjects were well handled to the satisfaction of his audiences, which | /
were the largest I have yet seen in Glasgow. j s
Upon week evenings Mr. Wallis is busy holding seances, and giving |)
information how to hold seances—an important work which is too i (
frequently overlooked. His psychometrical delineations of character | s
give great satisfaction. A great number of seances are held in the city, j j
but I have not been able to attend any. Mr. Duguid, the painting i)
medium, gives a se««ce]weekly to an “ inner circle ” of Spiritualists, the j j
results of which will take the form of a volume one of these days. 1 j
Visitors who have been invited to his seances speak in glowing terms of i)
their extraordinary nature. Direct paintings, direct writings, given j (
under strict test conditions (conditions that would delight the heart of j j
the Research Committee of the British National Association of Spirit- j)
ualists, could they only draw him out of his shell to give public exhi- j j
bitions of his mediumship), trance addresses, and inspirational utterances ] j
being the manifestations. i j
There is an earnest desire here to place Spiritualism as a public j s
movement upon a “ self-sustaining basis.” Mr. J. J. Morse and Mr. ! j
Wallis come alternately as public speakers, and the gap is filled up by j j
local lecturers, normal and abnormal—Mr. Birrell, trance medium, and j \
myself, so far doing duty as ” gap stoppers.” In that capacity I have i)
given the society four lectures. Mr. J. J. Morse occupies the platform i (
next Sunday, at half-past six p.m., at the Society’s rooms, 146, Tron- j S
gate, Glasgow. Through the mist of financial depression, the fog of i)
sceptical doubt, and the struggles of men for the “ bread that perisheth,” j (
there is a glimmering light that foretells better days in store for the j s
spiritual movement in Glasgow. Jas. Coates, i)
66, Jamaica-street, Glasgow. ■; (
GERMAN MATERIALISM VERSUS SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—The JPall Mall Gazette (Nov. 28th), in an article on “The
Social Condition of Germany,” the reading of which I highly recom- j
mend, confirms the somewhat gloomy picture I intended to portray |
last week. Speaking of Hartmann, tho leading philosopher of the day, j
the author says: “ The moral of his latest work (published within the
last few weeks) is that progress and civilisation mean misery, and that
the nearer we approach to the animal type the happier we shall be. If
so, then the Germans should speedily become the happiest of nations,
for brutishness is sadly on the increase,’’ &c., &c.
Now, even should the writer have, as I hope, exaggerated a little in
his description, a downward tendency cannot be denied; and Prince
Bismarck’s confession may awaken misled Fatherland, nay, prepare
even for a greater conquest by that great mind than has been achieved
by the sword. His apparently sharp measures, directed against the
recent organisations of malcontents, will be appreciated as aimed
against the threatening tyranny of disbelief, and its rude companion,
gross materialism; and, perhaps, give a view in the distance of the
blessed state of the “ Faustrecht.” If, then, after a little touch of sur¬
prise, the essence of Prince Bismarck’s religious views should produce
the salutary effect of causing the reconsideration and arrestation of the
march towards low sensualism and barbarism, the allusions I printed
last week to his believing in certain mysterious influences will draw a
smile of approbation from those who, nevertheless, detect traces of
“superstition” still clinging to even such an enlightened mind. Up
to this day, shallow newspaper misrepresentations, surface imitations
of truth by conjurors and mountebanks, have had the best of it, as such
false guides are supported by young kid-gloved professors, who have
sucked their knowledge from Carpenterian sources, and who success¬
fully hide the fact that genuine results are obtained and cultivated,
from the highest private circles down to the cottager’s kitchen-
parlour, after some of the most eminent scientists have tested these
“ capricious miracles” long enough to let them off as “ unquestionable
facts.” If the tone of sceptical opposition should be interesting to
future historians, when comparing various nations in their antics while
giving way to “ the philosophy of the future,” the restoration of Chris¬
tianity, erroneously supposed to be at the bottom of Spiritualism, will
explain the emphatic cry against it given by young literati and news¬
papers in Germany. These are mostly under control of talented Jewish
leaders. Resistance is also offered because the new light is not
welcome; it shows up corruptions which now slide along smoothly
under the elegant cloak of respectability and the faint light of a tallow
candle. But another motive for resistance, and perhaps the mightiest,
is the evident fear of upsetting the structures of modern philosophy, by
admitting the genuineness of our phenomena. To be sure, their
universal acceptance would act like an earthquake, but whilst the firm
pillars of science will remain intact, their stucco coatings will crumble
away. The leaves of the speculative books on mind and matter, now
held as leading philosophies, will be scattered to the winds.
The opposition of the clergy in Germany seems to be less objection¬
able since they admit the reality of the spiritual phenomena. Mr.
A. Aksakof recently showed me a clerical paper of influence, where
this admission was used as a warning against practical experiments with
them. A secret dread that the further spread of the new light might
reveal the rottenness within the Church itself may be at the bottom of
all this, especially if a purification and clearer definition of Christianity
are to be effected. A comical attack on our cause was made in a recent
issue of the “ Deutsche Rundschau” which means, verbally translated,
“ Round-book,” the opposite of insight. There Prof. Preyer has a fling
at Spiritualism, by belabouring ancient mesmerism in its first phases,
where ignorance of conditions favoured hostile influences. Encouraged
by the non-resistance of the half-decayed carcase, he turns valiantly to
modern accomplishments, calls Slade a vile impostor and all believers
dupes, including, with a sentimental sigh, Messrs.Wallace, Crookes, and
Zollner, as victims of a deplorable delusion. The best part of it is that
a Dr. Christiani (of Berlin) is said to do all these things by conjuring.
If these gentlemen will turn their attention to the genuine thing,
their undoubted ability and sincerity will prove of service in confirm¬
ing what others have already found out to be true. Against all these
angry waves, Mr. Aksakof’s gallant little bark, Psychic Studies, pro¬
gresses steadily, particularly since Prof. Zollner’s remarkable experi¬
ments added welcome ballast. Christian Reimers.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—Will you be so kind as to insert this in the next Spiritualist.
Dr. Carter Blake wonders why my brother-in-law, the Hungarian, not
German, Baron Hendrik Yay called himself, when appearing through
L. Fowler’s mediumship,-ZTendncA. Why? Because Henry is spelled
in Hungarian, Henrik, or Hendrik; that was just the test that our
brother gave also in direct writing through Lottie Fowler, his full name
in Hungarian. I must remark here that the Yay family is one of the oldest
pure sang Hungarian magnates; that one Laszlo Vay was christened
with King Stephen; and that our brother Henrik was of a chivalrous
spirit. He had fine moustaches, a broad chest, was a tali and bony man,
just as he appeared through L. Fowler’s mediumship. iJWe have so often
tested her mediumship, that I cannot hear of any blame being put upon
her name. Mrs. Fitz-Gerald’s paper so interested me ! How beautifully
all is said; so full of trust, love, and wisdom. I like to read such papers.
These lectures do much good.
Gonobitz, Austria, November 25th, 1878.
The next annual general meeting of the members of the Natio ial
Association of Spiritualists might be made a specially interesting and
valuable one, if the Council or some member would bring to the issue of
a public vote, the as yet undecided points in the methods of constitu¬
tional procedure of the Association. Those very few persons who try to
mix up personalities with the consideration of these important philo¬
sophical questions, might be requested to abstain from that course,
because of its lowering character. They form as proper subjects for
intelligent examination as any dealt with at the present Monday
evening meetings.
270
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 6, 1878.
CAPTAIN BURTON’S-ADDRESS ON EASTERN
SPIRITUALISM.
Last Monday night the rooms of the British National
Association of Spiritualists were thronged to overflowing by
members and their friends, who attended to listen to Cap¬
tain Burton’s paper on “ Spiritualism in Eastern Lands.”
Even all the standing room was occupied, and several per¬
sons were unable to gain admittance. Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., presided, and the speakers were Captain
Burton, Mrs. Barton, Mr. William Crookes, Mr. A. R.
Wallace, Dr. Wyld, Mr. Shorter, Mrs. Hallock, Mr. Spencer,
Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. C. C. Massey, and Mr. Harrison. A
full report will be published in these pages next week.
Captain Burton’s paper, in full, is in the present issue.
THE “DAILY TELEGRAPH” AND CAPTAIN BURTON.
The following is part of the article from The, Daily
Telegraph of November 14, 1876, alluded to by Captain
Burton. A few observations were appended to it by him
for the better elucidation of its views :—
The magistrates, however, rightly or wrongly, appear to have felt
themselves bound by the decision of Mr. Flowers in the Slade case,
and we may consequently take it for granted that the appeal of “ Doctor”
Monck will follow the result of the appeal of “ Doctor ” Slade.
Pending this issue, the faithful few who still believe in what some
people call “ psychic force,” others “ animal magnetism,” and Dr.
Monck himself “spiritualism,” will perhaps derive some comfort from
the letter of Captain Burton, the well-known traveller and explorer, who,
finding that he had been publicly mentioned as one of those who “ have
certified to the genuineness of spirit phenomena,” has felt it due to him¬
self to write from Trieste for the purpose of explaining his true position.
According to Capt. Burton’s own account of his convictions and how
he came by them, an experience of twenty years has convinced him
that, first, “perception is possible without the ordinary channels of
sensation; ” and, secondly, that he himself has “ been in presence of a
force or a power—call it what you will—evidently intelligent and
palpably material, if, at least, man be made of matter.”
The statements, distinct as they may at first sound, are nevertheless
somewhat vague, and our doubt is increased when we find Capt. Burton
roundly declaring that “ some such power or force the traveller is com¬
pelled to postulate, even in the absence of proof.” We may be, perhaps,
too blindly given to what most ordinary people call common sense,
but which is dignified by philosophers with the title of “logic.” We
frankly confess, however, that this naive admission of Capt. Burton’s is,
in its way, as remarkable a sentence as it has yet been our fortune to
come across. It is precisely because credulous people, who are not over-
close reasoners, are in the habit of “ postulating” ideas of their own
“ in the absence of proof ” that professional mediums have so rich a
flock of dupes, and spiritualism itself so noble an army of martyrs.
Capt. Burton, it seems, has been in various foreign countries, where he
has “ perceived ” a something without any “sensation” of it. We certainly
fail to understand what “perception” without sensation is like. How,
for instance, can a man “perceive” a cat in the room without the
sensation of sight; or “perceive” eau de Cologne without the sensa¬
tion of smell; or “perceive” a clap of thunder without the sensa¬
tion of hearing ? What we suppose Capt. Burton means must be, that
he has been convinced by some sort of mysterious inner consciousness
that he has been in the presence of “ some force or power ” of which his
ordinary senses gave him no cognisance. This, of course, is mere
fancy, and if indulged it develops itself into hysteria, and finally, as
Dr. Forbes Winslow can tell us, into confirmed insanity. It is difficult
to know how to reason with a man who deliberately asserts that he can
“ perceive or is, in other words, directly conscious of the presence of
a “force or power ” which he cannot touch, see, smell, or hear.
We all know that Oriental jugglers are able to do wonderful things ;
and Captain Burton has no doubt seen as much of Eastern magicians
as most men have. A clever Indian juggler will make a lemon tree in
full blossom grow out of a loaf of bread chosen by yourself and placed
by yourself in the palm of his hand; so, at any rate, we are told by
travellers. He will put a rupee on the palm of your hand, which,
under your own eyes, will convert itself into a cobra, and he will float
in broad daylight in open air twenty feet above your head, without any
visible support. Captain Burton’s argument is that because extraor¬
dinary feats of this kind are performed by certain people in every nation,
whether savage or civilised, and because nobody is exactly able to
explain how it precisely is that they are done, we are therefore bound to
believe that they belong to a “ suprahuman category.” What his own
private opinion is he does not attempt to conceal. He begs the whole
issue by calling the “ force or power ” in question a “legitimate agent.”
Nor does he stop here. “ Speaking generally,” says he, “ I fear that
many a professional medium has at times, when the legitimate agent
failed him, learnt to supplement it by sleight of hand, pure and simple.”
What we, in all humility, would wish to know, is in what this same
“legitimate agent’’really consists, and Captain Burton would rendtr
the onerous task of investigators into the phenomena of spiritualism
comparatively simple if he would only tell them how they could lor
themselves “ perceive ” this mysterious entity, without recourse to the
“ ordinary channels of sensation.” In the famous old story in the
earlier days of Blackwood of how Father Tom made the Pope a hare,
his Holiness, it may be remembered, propounds the subtle conundrum,
“ How would j ou deal with a heretic who gave you a passage from the
Fathers saying, ‘ Every sensible man knows transubstantiation is a
lie ?’ ” The reply of the Irish priest is eminently amusing. “ Every
sensible man,” he argues, “ can only mean every man who judges by
his natural senses. Now, the natural senses are a fallible guide, and
no man can come to a right conclusion until he shakes off these ‘ five
deluders,’ and calls in the aid of the * sixth, and only true sense,’ which
is, of course, the voice of the Church.” The Pope, if we remember rightly,
admits himself worsted, and makes his ingenious antagonist a cardinal
upon the spot. Captain Burton deserves some similar reward of merit
for discovering for us the sixth sense of “ perception,” which is neither
seeing, hearing, smelling, touching, nor tasting, but something superior
to all five. Seriously, it is melancholy to find a man of strong common
sense, as Captain Burton undoubtedly is, indulging in such nonsense as
this. The moment we are told that before we can properly understand
or appreciate the “phenomena” of spiritualism we must give up our
ordinary senses, and resort to a sixth sense, known as “perception,”
we see what is expected of us. It is evidently intended that we are to
abandon all those ordinary processes by which each one of us, from the
most eminent physical philosopher down to the humblest peasant, is
accustomed to investigate and judge for himself external facts, and that
we are to believe whatever follies our fancy may suggest to us, and
whatever extravagances we may be invited to adopt. The inquirer who
commences an investigation into Spiritualism in this frame of mind will
probably, before his first seance is half over, find himself as confirmed a
believer as even Captain Burton, in the existence of a “ suprahuman
force or power ” which can be “ perceived ” without the assistance of
“ the ordinary channels of sensation.”
Of late Spiritualism has been growing too strong for the
public to believe the misrepresentations of the daily press,
and for the last nine months or more no newspaper abuse
has reached us printed in any journal of importance, except
one, in which Mr. Gladstone’s utterances in favour of
Spiritualism irritated political party spirit.
PSYCHOGRAPHIC PICTURES.
A collection of eleven psychographic pictures obtained
during the past five-and-twenty years, some of them possess¬
ing historic value in connection with Spiritualism, has
recently been offered for sale at the price of £75. Two of
the pictures are considered by competent judges to possess
high artistic merit, and were produced in an incredibly short
time through the hand of Mrs. Mapes, wife of Professor
Mapes, of New York, and who had no technical acquaintance
with painting. Some of the other pictures were the work
of a few seconds. All are attested by several witnesses, in¬
cluding the late Judge Edmonds, Professor Lyman, Mr. B.
Coleman, and others. The pictures are now on view in the
rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street.
The following letter of Mr. Charles Blackburn to Mr.
Tebb explains itself:—
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester,
18th November, 1878.
Dear Mr. Tebb,—Respecting the spirit pictures of Mr. Coleman’s,
many of them obtained under his own e}7es, and therefore genuine, I
think they really ought to belong to the British National Association of
Spiritualists by a general subscription of its members ; they would be
very interesting ornaments in the rooms of the Association, and that
establishment ought to become the depot of every original manifesta¬
tion of spirit power for the gratification of all visitors, and I will con¬
tribute £5 towards that object.—Very sincerely yours,
Charles Blackburn.
Mr. Tebb cordially unites with Mr. Blackburn in this
design, and it is hoped the requisite amount will be made
up, and that the pictures will become the property of the
Association. Miss Kislingbury has kindly consented to
receive subscriptions.
Mr. Charles Blackburn ..£500
Mr. William Tebb .... 500
William White.
Thurlow-road, Hampstead.
The absent are never without fault, nor the present without excuse.—
Franklin,
News has reached us of the formation of a spirit circle on the
borders of the Persian Gulf, in one of the hottest regions on the face of
the earth.
Now that Spiritualism is fast becoming popular and fashionable, it
requires less courage to avow belief in its phenomena than some twelve
or fourteen years ago, when Mr. Varley, while chief engineer
to the greatest telegraph company in the country, went into
a court of justice, and made an affidavit, which was published in
the newspapers, that the manifestations were all true and produced by
spirits. Mr. Wallace made a public avowal when it was highly un¬
pleasant so to do, and so did Mr. Crookes, so far as certifying the
reality of personally observed facts was concerned.
Dec. 6, 1878.
271
THE SPIRITUALIST.
SPIRITUALISM IN EASTERN LANDS *
BX CAPT. K. F. BURTON, F.R.G.S., HON. MEMBER OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
I felt highly honoured when your energetic secretary,
Miss Kislingbury, proposed to me a lecture in these rooms.
It is, indeed, a privilege; for here we Students may speak
out what we honestly believe to be the truth, without fear of
those brother-foes, the Theologian and the Scientist—the
Black Terror and the Red Terror.
The subject allotted to me for this evening is u Spiritu¬
alism” (or rather Magnetism, Occultism, and similar matters)
“ in Eastern Lands,” and I would obtain your leave to enter
into a personal matter which may interest Spiritualists.
As regards standpoint, it can matter little to an audience
what may be the opinions, spiritual or unspiritual, psycho¬
logical or unpsychological, of one whose humble duty is to
collect and narrate a few facts. But it would hardly be fair
to enter upon such a subject without briefly laying down the
standpoint from which it is viewed. Of course the point
de vue is that of the individual who pretends to be right
individually, but who has no pretension to be right either
absolutely or relatively to others.
The standpoint is intelligible enough. Seen from it, life
is nothing but the innate condition of man’s material and
sensuous organisation; as the old Materialist said, “it is
the swabham (nature of things) which thinketh in man.”
Consciousness, concerning which battle still rages, is not a
(i quality of the sentient principle, or, in otherwords, the soul; ”
but a condition of life inexplicable to us at present—a life
itself. The supernatural is the natural misunderstood or im¬
properly understood—we cannot say where natureeither begins
or ends. The superhuman is the superlative of human ; we
know what our sense and their “interpenetration ” teach us,
but no man—positively, absolutely, no man—neither deity
nor devil—angel nor spirit—ghost nor goblin—has ever
wandered beyond the narrow limits of this world—has ever
brought us a single idea or notion which belongs to another
and a different world—has ever eluded the simple cognisance
of man’s five wits. “ I refuse,” says Yerax, “ to doff my
hat and go on my knees and strip myself of all that is deemed
spiritual in my being, in deference to an arbitrary negation,
which they who propound it profess their inability to main¬
tain.” Let him keep his hat on, and point out one single
spiritual entity which is not subject to our animal senses, or
rather to the brain which directs them. With such belief,
or absence of belief, I must be contented to remain, as a
facetious friend said, “ a Spiritualist without the Spirits.”
An agnostic, who can have no knowledge save that which
his senses bring to him, is necessarily a materialist. By
“ matter,” or molecular structure, or concourse of atoms,
or whatever you please to call it, the Common Sense of man¬
kind, our supreme arbiter of physics and metaphysics,
understands that which is perceptible to, or cognisable by,
the senses. When Berkeley proves logically that spirit
only exists, we admire the ingenuity with which he shows
that white is black and black is white. Like the Hindu
philosopher he inverts the normal mode of definition by
calling the invisible prototypes the only reality. Similarly,
when Schofenhauer, the Buddhist of modern Europe, assures
us that “ in reality there is neither matter nor spirit,” we
note that he has adopted the Hindu idea oi Mayd, or universal
illusion; and that he reduces all existence to will and mani¬
festation—will in motion being force, and force producing
matter. When it is proved to us that matter does not
“ exist,” we recognise a quirk or conceit in the use of the
verb “ to exist.” Meanwhile, this chair, this table, these
walls, and all with them are of matter, material. And that
suffices us for everyday use.
We avoid asserting that spirits do not exist; we fear
being called upon to prove a negative ; and we students are
addicted to “ suspension of judgment”—a mental operation
apparently distasteful to the multitude. But we affirm that if
they do exist, they are material. As you see upon these walls
they allow themselves to be photographed; therefore, they
have substance, shape, and size ; upstairs a simple instru¬
ment shows you their connection with weight. We, there¬
fore, conclude that there are ample grounds for holding
*A piper read last Monday night before the British National Association of Spiritualists.
111 these spirits to be, like ourselves, of the world, mundane,
m of the earth, earthy. And when Spiritualists speak of a
In “ materialised spirit,” I can think only of a form of speech
11 j whose genus is Taurus, species Hibernicus. Similarly
| | Lucretius makes Epicurus argue that the soul is material
| | because all its belongings are of the material world. And
| | Paracelsus, the mighty adept, declared “ the imagination of
| ! man is a seed which is material.”
| I We, a goodly company, thus place ourselves in direct opposi
| tion with immaterial animisers. Weregret the term “ psychic
| | force ” applied to zoo-electricity, because it asserts a soul-
| | theory. We claim to know the genesis of the soul, the place
I | and almost the date of its birth. The beautiful conception of a
! ! refined body-form, denoted by the golden heart of the mummy,
I ! was familiar to the ancient Egyptian who, as Mr. Bonwick lately
| | told you, had a soul’s soul, as well as a body’s soul. And, note,
! | held that your modern belief in perisprits and spirit-forms
I I is that of the heathenry on the banks of the Nile who
| I disbelieved in Moses. The Hebrews, Moses included, agreed
j j to banish from their system a Soul-land, a Spirit-land, a
| | Ghost-land, a Kutome, or Dead-man’s-land, as Dahome calls
J it; in other words, a future world, a state of rewards and
| | punishments. Contented with Ituach (Arabic Rub),' the
I “ breath,” that is, the sign and symbol of life, these sturdy
I materialists wanted no Gentile “Atma” (soul) in addition to
| “ Mdtrd ” (matter). In Asia the fair vision may be traced
| to the Guebres, who taught it to the Jews during the
i captivity at Babylon : their subsequent teaching, Mani-
I cheism, or Dulism, the antagonism of light and darkness,
| good and bad, god and devil, positive and negative electri-
| city, is still, and long will be, a power in the world of
| ! faith. In Europe it arose amongst the fair humanities of
| I pagan Greece and Rome; as Cupid and Psyche prove, it did
1 ! noble service to the poets ; while prosaic Pliny declared that
j “to seek for other beings external to him, is not only useless
| to man, but beyond his power.” St. Paul introduced into
I Christendom the threefold idea of a natural body, which
I could become a glorified body, of a soul, and of a spirit;
! while the moderns remark, “ Our ideas of the soul are not
| | what they were a century ago ; a century hence they will
j 11 not be what they are now.” Personally, I ignore the
| (| existence of soul and spirit, feeling no want of a self within
|| a self, an I within an I. If it be a question of words, and
I my ego, or subject, as opposed to the non-ego, or object; or
my individuality, the concourse of conditions which differ-
j entiates me from others, be called a soul, then I have a soul,
I but not a soul proper. For some years, however, I have
| managed to live without what is popularly called a soul;
and it would be hard to find one violently thrust into the
recusant body.
I But why do the Spiritualists so violently rage against us ?
Why these wails concerning the “ awful spread of ma¬
terialism?” The Church hates the admirable Epicurus above
| all other heathen sceptic-sages, simply because he would
abolish Churchmen. Is this the standpoint of thepsycholo-
| gist ? Can there be anything less rational than the phrase
| which has of late grown popular : “ The dark and debasing
| doctrines of materialism?” Listen to the latest words of
the learned Serjeant Cox. “ The pursuit of psychology
| (£ Psyche] my pretty maid) is certainly as elevating as that
i of materialism is degrading. The eyes of the materialists
! are fixed upon the earth. Psychology at least looks up to
the heavens (blank sky and air). The regards of materialism
| are only for the present; psychology has a future”—let
i me add, a very unpleasant future, if Spiritualists say true.
Hear, again, the words of one who was called in his day
| Vaustere intrigant—“ Belief in the supernatural is a fact,
natural, primitive, universal, and consistent in the life and
history of the human race. Unbelief in the supernatural
I begets materialism ; materialism, sensuality; sensuality,
| social convulsions, amid whose storms men again learn to
i believe and pray.”—{Guizot.) Granted to thee, 0 theolo-
I gian ! a personal Demiourgos, an anthropomorphic creator,
I by what right canst thou limit his power, his omnipotence ?
| Surely the baser the material, the greater the feat which
| works it out into the noblest of forms. Far more wisely
| speaks an Eastern poet:—
| Is not the highest honour His who from the worst can draw the best ?
' May not your Maker make the world, from matter, at His own behest
272
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 6, 1878.
Nay, more; the eordider the stuff, the cuuninger the workman’s
hand— .
Cease, then, your own Almighty Power to bind, to bound, to understand !
* * #
But man—made, we are told, in the image of God—has
returned the good office by modelling his God after his own
very human fashion. This is the anthropomorphism, the
“ theanthropism” of Mr. Gladstone, concerning which the
great master, Aristotle, wrote—“ Men create the gods after
their own image, not only with regard to their form, but
with regard to their mode of life.” Meanwhile, I hold it to
be one of the brightest features of our times—this gospel
derisively called “ of Doubt and Denial.” It shows the firm
resolve of mankind no longer to be fooled with the fallacies
of many faiths; his longing to supplant the fatuous fires of
belief by the pure daylight of present reason, and his de¬
termination to shed the lively ray of science upon the dark
deceits and delusions, the frauds, the follies, and the
failures of the past.
And yet another objection. The scientist, in his turn, is
addicted to laying down terms and bounds to the immeasur¬
able field of human knowledge in the ages to come. He
assures us, for instance, that we shall never know the con¬
nection between the body and the soul—for there are
scientists who still have souls. I would ask—By what
manner of authority can man lay down such a neplus ultra?
We hold, under certain limitations, the law of development
—of progress — to be the normal order of the world.
What, then, will be the result when the coming races shall
have surpassed the present as far as the present has sur¬
passed the man of the Quaternary and, possibly, the Tertiary
ages ? Meanwhile the antidevelopists, theological and scien¬
tific, who cling to the obsolete and immoral doctrine of de¬
gradation, are bound to find, sunk deep below earth’s surface
vestiges and remains of ancient civilisation in an ever-
ascending scale ; they must show us, in fact, water running
up to its source. They are bound to produce, amongst the
old stone folk, a cave-man who, by his noble and symme¬
trical skull, his delicate jaw, his short forearm, his straight
shin, and, possibly, his “ hyacinthine locks,” shall receive
the fading honours of Father Adam and Mother Eve. Lord
Beaconsfield is all on the side of the Angels.” I cannot
but hold to the apes. And if he be a fallen angel, I, at
least, am a Simiad that has done something to develop
itself.
Before entering upon magnetism and occultism in Eastern
lands, will you kindly allow me a few words of personal
explanation ? In 1876 I addressed to the Times the follow¬
ing note upon extra-sensuous perception in the mesmeric
state, suggesting the universality of the so-called “ spirit”
phenomena:—
“ Sir,—Seeing my name quoted in your columns (Oct. 30,
1876) as one of those who have 1 certified to the genuine¬
ness of spirit phenomena,’ I venture to request the briefest
of hearings. The experience of twenty years has convinced
me that (1) perception is possible without the ordinary
channels of the senses ; and (2) that I have been in presence
of a force or a power, call it what you will, evidently and
palpably material if, at least, man be made of matter ; but
I know nothing of what is absurdly called Spiritualism, and
I must be contented to be at best a Spiritualist without the
Spirits.
u Some such force or power the traveller is compelled to
postulate, even in the absence of proof. He finds traces of
it among all peoples, savage as well as civilised ; and it is
evidently ^ a ‘ traditional supernaturalism.’ This all but
absolute universality claims for it the right to rank in the
4 suprahuman category’ of the late Lord Amberley, who did
not hold, as I do, the superhuman and the supermundane to
be the human and the mundane imperfectly understood.
Even mere barbarians, as ‘ the Earl’ tells us in his last
pleasant book, have learnt to juggle with it; and I fear that
many a professional 1 medium’ has, at times, when the
legitimate agent failed him, learnt to supplement it by
sleight-of-hand, pure and simple. In 1835 the late Mr.
Lane startled the public with his account of the Cairo
magician and the drop of ink in the boy’s hand; and
i Eothen’ vainly attempted to explain the phenomenon as a
* tentative miracle.’ Had the public read the Qanoon-i-
|| Islam by Dr. Herklots, instead of passing over it as a
| cookery-book, they would have found the very same process
| everywhere utilised in India. Colonel Churchill’s ‘ Mount
| Lebanon’ (1853) again describes a notable feat performed by
| a Druze medium, which distinctly comes under the head of
| ‘ Materialised Spiritualism,’ to use the 1 Irish bull’ now in
| vogue.—I am, sir,” &c. &c.
Thatlt perception is possible without the ordinary channels
| of sensation” is a hard saying. The press took it up; and,
| I am told, the small boys at Norwood amused themselves by
| shouting to one another, “ Take care where yer going! yer
I havn’t got Captain Burton’s six senses!” But I meant
i simply to state my conviction that the senses—which, little
I known to us as the il Laws of Nature,” after the study of
| twenty-four centuries, still conceal so many secrets—some-
| times are, and often may be made, independent of their
| organs. Who amongst you cannot quote cases of men being
strangely affected by the presence of some animal ? You
have all heard of Henri III. and of the Duke of Schomberg,
who could not sit in a room where there was a cat. A notable
instance of this occurred in my own family—a brave soldier
who had fought through many a campaign, and yet who
| turned pale and faint in the feline presence. He neither
| saw, smelt, heard, felt, nor tasted the cat; the fact of its
| being there was enough.
Again, why should not the brain, or the nervous system,
or whatever controls the sensuous processes of man, be able,
when artificially excited, stimulated, exalted—as by mes¬
merism or somnambulism—to see, hear, and feel for itself;
see, without eyes; hear, without ears; feel, without fingers ?
In other words—Why should it not be capable of clairvoyance
and clairaudience ? I assert that it does, and many in this
room will support my assertion. A learned physician and
devout Catholic—Dr. F. Lefebre, Professor of Pathology at
highly orthodox Louvain—goes so far as to affirm 11 it is
possible that the somnambulists’ power of foresight may be
raised to a degree far above the ordinary level, and that they
can sometimes penetrate into the future so far as to excite
our utmost astonishment.” In fact this honest and courageous
scientist confesses his belief in “ second sight.” Thus the
heterodoxies of yesterday becomes the orthodoxies of to-day.
That sturdy incarnation of common sense, Dr. Johnson, the
Philistine Colossus of English literature, would certainly, had
Spiritualism been developed in his day, have become a
thorough-paced Spiritualist. The theory of extra-sensuous
perception of things sensuous is to be proved or disproved,
not by hard words, not by mere logic, but by experiment
and facts. Meanwhile I hold myself justified in believing
it to be true, and others equally justified in believing it to
be false. As the wise man said, <( Different people have
different opinions.” And in our present transitional
empirical state of knowledge unanimity appears hopeless.
Half the world of Christendom believes that “ miracles ”
still take place; the other half denies their taking place:
and who shall decide between them ?
When my note appeared in the Times, that picturesque
paper, the Daily Telegraph—whose peculiar gifts are not
what it claims, “ logic ” and << common sense ”—took up
arms. With a war-whoop a la jingo^ and a flourish of the
tomahawk, which on this occasion assumed the guise of that
weapon so deadly in the hands of a certain Hebrew Hercules,
he proceeded to demolish me (Nov. 14, 1876). How,” he
asks, “ can a man perceive a cat in the room without the
sensation of sight ?” I am not bound to answer his “ how;”
I affirm that man can do it, that he has done it, and that he
still does it. Again, <{ How can he perceive a clap of thunder
without the sense of hearing ?” Let me ask, in return, how
many there are—some perhaps in this room—whose nervous
systems infallibly tell them, without the intervention of the
“ Five Deluders,” that “ thunder is in the air ?” After
fixing upon me the term “ Suprahuman,” which I quoted
from the late Lord Amberley’s last book, he lectures me
upon Eastern jugglery, as if I had never been out of Fleet-
street. He asks, with that mock-humility so well-known of
old, in what the medium’s “ legitimate agent ” may consist?
I, on my side, would inquire what he understands by sanative
mesmerism or somnambulism—is it lawful or unlawful ? He
would shed a Saurian tear over my lapse from grace:—<( It
is melancholy to find a man of strong common sense indulging
Dec. 6, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
273
in such nonsense as this.” Finally, because I hold to j j j
“nervous perception,” which maybe called a sixth sense, ;||
after the fashion of one proposed by John Stuart Mill, he Is
threatens me with hysteria, which again is not sound j | j
physiology, and (horrible to say !) with “ confirmed insanity.” j J j
The “ Cairo magician,” whose ink-mirror in the boy’s hand j j |
startled the public through Lane’s Modern Egyptians (chap, j J |
xii. vol. ii. p. 99, edit. 1846), is probably familiar to all in | )|
this room. Not so the account of the same phenomenon, |{
given by Dr. Rossi {Gazette Medicate de Paris, Feb., 1860). | j
This physician, estabiished at Cairo, has supplied ample j
details concerning the methods employed by the Egyptian j j j
sorcerers to produce sleep accompanied by insensibility, | /1
“ In this land of tradition,” writes Dr. Rossi, “ in this ||
country where what was done forty centuries ago, is still done 11
at the present day, there exists a class of persons who gain j)
their living by the profession of MandiebP [The latter is j
a mistake for Darb el Mandal,* * * § as the Arabs call the process.] i
“ The effects produced by them, hitherto spoken of with i j
contempt as charlatanism, are the same as those lately i
published by Dr. John Braid (1843). Still further, as you j
had foreseen by scientific induction, hypnotism in their hands |
is merely the first link of the chain which ends by the j
phenomena of ‘ magnetic somnambulism,’ discovered by the j
Marquis dePuys^gur in 1784. They proceed in the following j
manner. They generally make use of a perfectly white ! j I
platter of earthenware. This is the luminous object of j j
Braidism. In the centre of this plate they draw, with pen j j
and ink, two triangles crossing each other,f and fill up the j | j
space occupied by this geometrical figure with cabalistic 11!
words, the probable object being to concentrate the sight |
upon a limited point. Finally, to increase the brightness of j
its surface, they pour a little oil upon it. i j
“ Generally speaking, they choose a young subject J for j j
their experiments, and make him fix his eyes on the centre ! |
of the double triangle. Four or five minutes after § the j j
following effects are produced. The patient begins to see a |j i
black spot in the middle of the plate ; some minutes later, |
this black spot grows larger, changes its shape, and trans- | j
forms itself into different apparitions, which float (or rather |j |
pass in procession) before the subject. Having reached this j j
point of hallucination, the patient often acquires a somnam- j i
bulistic lucidity as extraordinary as that of those who are | j
magnetised; I !
“There are, however, some of these Shaykhs who, more J j
simple in their preparations, without having recourse to | j
geometrical figures or cabalistic words, cause the simple I j
hypnotism and somnambulism of Dr. Braid, by making the I j
subject fix his eyes upon one of those glass balls which con- | j
tain oil, and serve for lamps.” j i
Before these lines had been written, a Member of the j j
Institute, Count Leon de Laborde, bought from an “ Arab | j
magician ” at Cairo, of the confraternity of Lane’s Shaykh | j
Abd el Kadir, the secret of apparitions in the hollow of the j |
hand. Children taken at hazard see with as much ease as
through a lucarne (skylight) men moving, appearing and j j
disappearing. (Revue des Deux Mondes, August, 1840.)
Had the learned public been a little better read, they I j
would have known what Dr. Herklots wrote some three years j j
before Lane’s account caused so much excitement, “ fluttering | |
the doves ” that began at once to shriek “ Necromancy.” || j j
In the “ Qanoon-i-Islam ” (chap, xxxiii. p. 376-8. London : I j
Parbury and Allen, 1837) translated by Dr. G. A. Herklots, j |
we find Section I. devoted to the “ viewing of Unjun (anjan), j I
or the magic mirror.”1[ The author says: “For the purpose j j
of ascertaining where stolen goods are concealed, or the j j
condition of the sick whenever possessed by the Devil, or j j
where treasure has been buried, they apply Unjun to the ! j j
palm of a child or an adult, and desire him to stare well at j j
it.” This art is practised by Jogis,** Sanyasis, and other j
Hindu devotees, who use it to ascertain the exact position of j j
buried treasure. The “Dafinah,” in India, emits fire-sparks | j
* “Handal” is, properly speaking, a Persian word, and means the magic circle in which ! / j
the necromantist sits when summoning the demons and spirits of the dead. i / I
f The well-known cabalistic figure known to Moslems as Khdtim-Sulaymdn—Solomon's i ) j
Seal. ... I (I
f A negro, a boy, or a woman with child, say the Arabs. _ j ) j
§ This is not time enough; in India half an hour would be the minimum. ! ) j
|| It reminded them of the Island of Glubdubdrib, “ where the Governor, by his skill in i ) i
necromancy, had the power of calling whom he pleased from the dead” (Gulliver, i ) j
chap. vii.). j I i
!||i Lamp-black prepared in a peculiar way. •'1
** Of these men more hereafter.
at nigbt, and rolls about like a ball of flame. Our author
continues: “ The person to the palm of whose hand Unjun
is applied, occasionally mutters a great deal of ridiculous
nonsense. For example, that ‘ at such and such a place
there is a lota deqchah, or kurrahee. full of rupees, &c.,
buried. ’ ”*
Unjun, we are told, is of five kinds, viz.:—
1. Urth (arth) Unjun, used to discover stolen goods. This
is prepared by triturating various roots, for instance, that of
the abrus precatorius, or carat-tree, in water. It is thus
applied to the inside of a piece of earthen pot which must
be new and pure, and placed inverted over a lamp lighted
with (fresh) castor oil. The lamp-black is collected, mixed
with oil, and applied to the hand of a footing child, who, we
are told, “ particularly details everything regarding what is
wanted.”
2. Bhoot (bhut) Unjun is similar, but used chiefly for
ascertaining what regards devils, evil spirits, and the con¬
dition of the sick.
3. D'kunna (dhanna) Unjun is composed of a lot of white
cloth dipped in the blood of a cat, an owl, or a “ king-
crow ; ” the eyes, liver, and gall-bladder are rolled up in it,
and it is used as a wick in a lamp of castor oil. The lamp
procured is also mixed with oil and applied to the hand ;
hidden treasure is thereby discovered.
4. Alop Unjun, which, if applied to a person’s eyes or
forehead, makes him, wherever he be, invisible to others,
while they remain visible to him.
5. Saurtva Unjun is prepared with the suds of the Dolichos
lablab. After staring for two or three ghurees (each of 24
minutes) the subject will say something to this effect:—
“ First I saw the Farrash (sweeper) coming; he swept the
ground and departed. Then came the Bihishti (water-
carrier), who sprinkled water on the flower and went away.
The Farrash reappeared and spread the carpet. Next came
a whole army of fierce demons, fairies, &c., to whom suc¬
ceeded their commander, who was seated on a throne.”
This was, in fact, the king of the Jinns, into whose presence
the culprit was borne and forced to make confession.
The Hindi Moslem, from whose manuscript Dr. Herklots’
translation was made, concludes the Unjun section as
follows :—“ I myself place no faith in such unjuns and
kazeeruts (spirit-summoniugs). Although born in this very
country (Hindostan), bred and educated among this race
(Moslems); yet, through the blessing of God, and the
friendship of the great, by the study of good books, and by
the hearing of sane counsel, the credibility of the existence
of such things has been entirely effaced from my breast.”
This conclusion is evidently ad captandum. It must be
remembered that the author wrote before 1832, when even
European travellers who feared to be called “ credulous ”
were compelled to make an apology for recounting any phe¬
nomenon that savoured of the so-called “ preternatural.”
Spiritualistic societies have, at least, taught them a little
more boldness in dealing with facts, and courage in affronting
the vulgus.
I need hardly enlarge upon the antiquity and the almost
universal use of the Magic Mirror: Cornelius Agrippa’s
crystal and Dr. Dee’s bit of cannel coal are doubtless well
known to you. But I would draw your attention to the
curious fact that everywhere, and in all ages, the vision
follows nearly the same ceremonial—the floor sweeping, the
procession, the throne, the ruler, and the person summoned.
This is the phenomenon which deserves investigation. Is it
traditional—that is, taught by one “ magician” to another ?
Or is it spontaneous—the mesmeriser’s thought reflected by
the medium ?
The following description of treasure-raising by magic,
given in the words of a Tunisian notary, shows the popular
idea of the process in Western lands, as opposed to that
mentioned by Herklots :—
“ On the evening appointed, the Moroccan and three
others, besides myself, left the city as the gates were closed,
and reached the appointed place when only two hours were
wanting to midnight.
“ After a short rest our guide took us to a fragment of
ruin on the southern slope of a hill, where he desired us to
remain perfectly silent, and instructed us not to be iutimi-
* Various lands of brass pots and pipkins.
274
THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 6, 1878.
dated by anything we might see or hear. He could not tell
precisely what would happen ; but( whatever may transpire,’
he said, 1 give no utterance to your feelings, whether of fear
or of joy ; for if you do, our labour will not only be in vain,
but the treasure itself will have to continue in the bowels of
the earth for another century.’
i( He then lit a small lamp, and began his incantations.
He stood in the centre, and we at the four cardinal points of
the compass, only about four or five arms’ length from
him. Then he blew into a small flame the coals he had
brought in an earthen cruse, and threw a variety of incense
into it. Ho sooner did the smoke commence to ascend than
he made a last imploring sign to us neither to move nor to
utter a sound, and threw himself flat on the ground.
“ In a few seconds we felt the ground beneath us heave
like the waves of the sea, so that we had the greatest diffi¬
culty to stand erect; tremendous noises, like the sound of
thunder, at the same time assailed our ears. By the dim
moon we could discern hosts of cavalry, in the plain below,
galloping up to us, with their guns and lances aimed at us.
They rushed upon us in the most furious and threatening
attitudes ; but no sound—not even that of hoofs—could we
hear, and horses and riders seemed to vanish when only
within a few yards of us. But this strange army thickened ;
the fierceness of their countenances and their threatening
position increased, while at the same time we distinctly
heard the clangour of chains and other extraordinary noises
underground. Although trembling from fright, we stuck
to our posts, and obeyed to the very letter the Moroccan’s
instructions. But now huge masses of rock above us began to
stagger ; and, as if hurled by some supernatural and invisible
force, commenced rolling down with the utmost velocity in
the direction of the spot where we stood, threatening us with
instantaneous destruction. The fear of death overcame our
love for treasure. We fled with the speed of lightning, and
called for mercy at the top of our voice, never stopping nor
looking back till we found ourselves in safety.
lt The Moroccan joined us soon afterwards, giving utter¬
ance to the greatest rage and fury as soon as he could make
himself audible; and, had we not been four to one, he
would, I believe, have committed murder that night. 1 The
work (he said) was on the eve of being completed, and the
stones opened the gap for us to possess ourselves of vast
treasures. Your cowardice has frustrated all. You might
have been wealthy by this time ; but beggars you were when
you came here, and, through your own folly, beggars you
return.’ ”
Dr. N. Davis, who relates what was told to him (pp. 399,
400, Carthage. London: Bentley, 1861), notices other
events of this kind. As an eye-witness he describes (p. 425)
the charming of a dangerous serpent by one Haji Ibrahim,
and owns that the fat little Darwaysh “had a certain
influence over venomous reptiles—mesmeric, or of some
other kind.” Elsewhere (p. 404) he tells of a dancing
drinking-cup, that skipped merrily into the middle of the
room; the same kind of manifestation as that produced by
Colonel Churchill’s Druze mediums. Tales of this nature
may be found scattered through the pages of a host of tra¬
vellers : they offer, in fact, no embarras de richesses.
The following is the modern European form of the magic
mirror. I find in a well-known Masonic journal (theifos?-
crucian, No. 4, April 1, 1877) an article—“Evenings with
the Indwellers of the World of Spirits ”—by my friend, Mr.
Frederick Hockley :—
“ The pendant of a crystal chandelier destroyed in the
palace of the Tuileries during the Revolution under Charles
the Tenth (29th July, 1830), had this evening arrived,
and been laid upon the table, and had not been charged. My
seeress, Miss Emma Leigh, taking it up, said :
“ ‘ It is thick; there is a vision in it.
“ 1 There’s a pair of compasses and a square. Now the
compasses are opening; now there is a point on each end of
the square, which has turned sideways. There’s a book come
underneath—a thick book, bound in rough calf, with thick
bands up the back; now there’s a man’s face, very thin,
dark, straight hair, quite black, come inside the compasses,
and a thin, very thin hand placed upon the book.
“ ‘ Now the face has come from the inside of the com¬
passes to a small space outside. The hand has opened the
! I book; the book is very beautiful inside, it looks like a
| ! picture. There are two figures with wings on each side of a
| | little oval; in the middle of the oval there appear words or
| ! figures beautifully coloured.’
| “ This remained some time, and as the hour for using the
| C. A. mirror was at hand, I tried to dismiss the vision, but
I it remained. I then placed the crystal in my cabinet.
“ At 8 p.m. I invoked, as usual, the C. A. in his mirror,
| and the action lasted till a few minutes to 10, when the
I O. A. left.
“ 10 p.m.—Immediately Emma took up Mr. Dresser’s
I | crystal she observed : ‘ It is still clouded. The book is there
i | open, and the man’s face and shoulders. He has held his
| | hand up, and the book has opened just in the same place.
| It looks very richly illuminated in gold and colours; there
| is an arch at the top, and one angel is standing upon a
j | crushed ball. Now there are clouds of different colours
! | coming up under the other figure at the bottom—white, like
] ! smoke, then purple, blue, pink, and golden-coloured, which
j ! covers all up to their wings.
“ ‘ In the oval the reading is not in English or like letters ;
j j it is large enough to be read. Two or three of the letters
j | look like ducks with their heads under water.’
“ Emma then copied the contents of the oval, and when
j 11 finished she said : ‘ Now there’s a little slip of paper come
| | underneath the title-page with words on it.’ ”
| [For the rest of the article the reader must consult the
j Masonic journal.]
In Dr. Herklots we find the word “Jogi” properly applied to
| a Hindu devotee. Some of our modern Spiritualistic writers
I (Isis Unveiled), speak of a “ Hindu Fakir,” which sounds
| much like a “ Protestant Franciscan,” or “ Trappist.” These
j Jogis are familiar, by sight at least, to every Anglo-Indian,
| who includes them all under the comprehensive term, “holy
I beggars.” They maintain the possibility of acquiring, even
j during life, entire command of our elementary matter, and
| all worldly substances. The means are certain ascetic
I practices, such as (1) long continued suppressing of breath,
| and inhaling and exhaling in particular ways; some of them
| are said to retain respiration for an incredible time; (2)
j sitting in different attitudes, of which the Ayin Akbari
j (ii. 445) records 84 different asans, the eyes being generally
| fixed so as to produce hypnotism, or Braidism, upon the
<! nose-tip. These austerities effect the yoga (union) between
II the particle of vital spirit residing in the body and that
I which, being the source and essence of creation, per-
I vades all nature—in fact, the Anima mundi, or soul of the
j world. Thus the Jogi, being liberated from his too coarse
| flesh, can make himself lighter than the lightest substances,
| j and heavier than the heaviest. He can become as big or as
I small as he pleases. He can practise attrobacy, or levi-
| tation, and traverse all space. He can render himself in-
11 visible, and animate a dead body, by transferring his “ spirit”*
| into it. He can attain all objects, and become equally
| familiar with the Past, the Present, and the Future. Finally,
| he can be united with the sources of life, the archaeal soul of
| the world, the “ Universal Soul” of Plato, and the Astral
| Light of the cabbalists. He now consequently escapes the
| pains and penalties of metempsychosis.
The Jogis are mostly strong in the Zoo-electric force, which
I Mr. Crookes’s instrument has proved to be material as any
i other form of electricity. Its application evidently dates
| from the earliest ages, and is by no means confined to the
! nobly-born and civilised races of man. My cousin, Edward
| Burton, when serving, about 1840, in the now abolished
I Royal African Corps at St. Mary’s, Bathurst, Gambia River,
| found a self-taught negro magnetiser. ‘ “ Tom Tom Jack ”
I wisely refused to meddle with “ whites” (Europeans), but
| boasted that he could hypnotise any black man. My cousin
I offered five dollars, a large inducement, to his orderly,
j “Charley Ross,” if he could resist the force; but the
I magnetiser was successful. I may also state that in my own
| case the practice began naturally, long before I had the
11 benefit of books and teachers.
Amongst those who have recorded “ Spiritualism ” in
! Eastern lands, we must include Colonel Churchill.f He
11 resided long upon the Lebanon, and he gained much medium-
| j * Bead Zoo-Electric Force.
t Churchill's Mount Lebanon. London, 1853, vol. i., pp. 146—167.
Deo. 6, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
275
istic experience, especially from one of his friends, Bashir
Talhuk. The following lines deserve quotation concerning
the Shaykh, who, we are told, “has devoted his time,
singular as it may appear, to the cultivation of magic; and
the stories he relates of his interviews with immaterial beings
are novel and startling.”
“ At times he will place a jug between the hands of two
persons sitting opposite to each other; when, after the recital
of certain passages taken indiscriminately from the Koran
and the Psalms of David,* * * § it will move spontaneously round.
A stick, at his bidding, will proceed unaided from one end
of the room to the other. A New Testament suspended by a
piece of string to a key will, in the same way, turn violently
round of itself.f On two earthenware jars being placed in
opposite corners of a room, one being empty, the other filled
with water, the empty jars will, on the recital of certain
passages, move across the room ; the jar full of water will
rise of itself on the approach of its companion and empty
its contents into it, the latter returning to its place in the
same manner that it came. An egg boiling in the saucepan
will be seen to spring suddenly out of the water, and be
carried to a considerable distance.^ A double locked door
will unlock itself. Tfiere cannot be a doubt that an unseen
influence of some kind is called into operation, but of what
nature those may conjecture who like to speculate upon such
matters.§
11 But it is in the more serious cases of disease or lunacy
that the supernaturally-derived powers are called into play.
Previous to undertaking a cure, he shuts himself up in a
darkened room, and devotes his time to prayer and fasting.
Fifteen and sometimes thirty days are passed in this state of
abstinence and self-denial. At last, one of the genii (Jinn),
described by him to be much of the same appearance as
human beings, will suddenly appear before him and demand
his bidding. He then states his position, and requires
assistance in the case he is about to undertake. The genii
replies at once that his request is granted, and encourages
him to proceed.
“ The wife of Shaykh Ahmed Talhuk had been for more
than two years afflicted with a swelling, which had been mis¬
taken for pregnancy. Shaykh Bushir, after the usual pre¬
paratory discipline, passed his hand over her person, and in
five minutes she arose perfectly cured. Shaykh Yusuf
Talhuk was brought before him a confirmed lunatic ; in two
days he returned to his home perfectly restored in health and
reason.” [You see how shrewd was the apostle of Allah when
he disclaimed the gift of miracle-mongering.]
“ That the Shaykh stoutly maintained his intercourse
with spiritual agents to be real and effective is unquestion¬
able ; and, indeed, the belief in magic, and in the inter¬
position of an order of unseen creatures in worldly affairs, at
the bidding of those who chose to devote themselves
earnestly to such intercourse, is universal throughout the
entire population of every religion and sect. .. . Instances
could be multiplied in which the most extraordinary and
unaccountable results have been brought about, by the intro¬
duction of individuals who made this communion the subject
of their study and contemplation. But as the ears of Euro¬
peans would only be shocked by assertions and statements which
they would not fail of holding to be utterly fabulous and
ridiculous, the subject is merely alluded to in these pages to
indicate the existence of a very prominent and prevalent belief
in the Lebanon” [Again I place in italics those words
which supply a Spiritualistic Society with such an admirable
raison 6?etre^\
The notes on Spiritualism which you have this evening
favoured with your hearing are, to use a Persian phrase,
only a handful which proves what the heap is. My friend
Dr. Charnock especially recommends Le Spiritualisme
Oriental, by another friend, A. de Kremer {Journal Asiatique,
6 serie, tom. 13, p. 105). Also he refers to index tom. 20,
in connection with Le Sougisme (Reading-room, British
Museum, 2098 d). In my History of Sindh (London:
* This process, like the words of the vulgar “ spell,” was probably used to concentrate the
will.
t The Koran-garddn or Koran-turning of the Persians. Usually the key is made fast to
the book, and its handle rests upon the finger tips of the patients, whose nervous agitation
and muscular action, unknown to them, cause the movement. At Goa the Portuguese thus
discover thieves, &c. The gipsies of Spain also practise the rite, the accuser and the accused
singing the Song of Solomon.
t A favourite gipsy trick in Northern Africa.,
§ The italics are not the author's.
I Allen, 1851) I have given a chapter (No. viii.) and its
I notes to the same subject, Sufism. And, lastly, in Vikram
and the Vampire (London: Longmans, 1870), I have
related, under a facetious form of narrative, many of the
so-called supernaturalisms and preternaturalisms familiar to
the Hindus. These studies will show the terrible “ training,”
| the ascetic tortures, whereby men either lose their senses, or
attain the highest powers of magic (proper), that is, of com-
| manding nature by mastering the force, whatever it be, here
| called Zoo-electric, which conquers and controls every
modification of matter.
Nothing remains but to thank you for the patience with
which you have listened to a long ramble, and to hope that
the debate will be more interesting than the discourse.
According to the Arabs, “The lesson is one; the talk (that
j follows the lesson) is one thousand.”
CASTING OUT DEVILS.
In the evening they proceeded to the palace, where the girl was still
(I moaning in her heavy sleep. All those around her could distinguish
| were the words, “He must not come! I will not depart!" The old
) | man had prepared an earthen pot with a cover, which contained some
(| fruits and seeds, and placed some silver pieces of money in it, and
| | smeared the inside with ground sandalwood paste. Then he passed his
| ) 1 hand over the child several times from head to foot; and as the earthen
I ( lamp placed on the top of the vessel was lighted, three kinds of oil
| | being used, those sitting around observed the girl become restless,
| | j flinging about her arms and sighing deeply. Her mattress, which had
| \ been laid on the floor, was now removed, and the place washed with
I j liquid red clay and cow-dung, and she was taken up and laid upon it;
j | then the exorcist passed his hands over her again, and incense and
; ( perfumes were lighted, which cast up volumes of smoke, so that the
j / old man’s face, as he sat at the girl’s feet, could hardly be seen. When
I | this had subsided a little he told Zora to be ready, and she, taking up
j | the pen that had been provided, rapidly drew the outline of the charm
i (j large enough to admit of her writing the incantation. The group
i ( formed a strange and solemn picture. The girl, lying restless and in-
| j sensible, extended on the floor, with the venerable old Syud, with his
|) I anxious yet benevolent face and long white bread, sitting at her feet,
| ( with Zora by his side. At the patient’s head were her mother and several
j) other ladies and servants, weeping bitterly, while the Rajah himself,
I) i with the secretary, who was a privileged person, watched the result
s with intense interest. The room was dark, except where the lamp cast
!) a dim yellow light upon the group, and wreaths of smoke still eddied
i (I about the ceiling and walls, seeking egress. The only sounds were the
| (I sobs of the women, the occasional low moans of the patient, and the
j) grating sound of Zora’s pen as it passed over the paper. At last the
I ( old man, with the usual invocation, “ In the name of God, most clement
| ( and merciful,” began the incantation, “ Whoever ye arewhile Zora
i) j plied her pen as fast as she could, copying from the book before her.
| (j Every name .pronounced was cried with a loud voice, and a considerable
; j! pause made, so that Zora was not hurried, and the whole ceremony being
|) repeated three times, her grandfather took the pen, and directing his
i) hand to the place, he wrote the concluding words, and breathed over
j > the whole. Then the paper was sprinkled with some scented powder,
i (j and rolled up tightly, a thread of fine cotton being passed round it;
| ( then it was lighted, and as the old man recited passages from the Koran,
i l j green and red-coloured flames issued from the burning roll, which all
| (j could see ; but the girl opened her eyes, shuddered, and tried to hide
j \ j her face in the floor. As the paper burned out, she was convulsed for
i j | a short time, and then lay still; finally she sat up, opened and rubbed
•! u her eyes, and, stretching out her arms, said quietly to them all, “ Where
| ( am I ? What has he done to me ? There was something sitting on my
j) chest,” and continued innocently, “ and it is gone ! ” :1 fShookr! Hazar
| (i shookr ! Thanks, a thousand thanks ! ” exclaimed the Dervish. “ Lord,
i \ | Thou hast heard my prayer. Friends, he that possessed the child is
!) gone, but he is here among us ! ” At this announcement every one
I (j shuddered, and the old exorcist called to the spirit to reply, but there
I [ was no answer. He then asked the girl whether anything had been
j r I said or whispered to her, and she replied innocently, “ Bassuppa told
i (| me he was going away for ever, and would never return ; he could not
111 remain, because some one was too powerful, and he cried very much,
I c | and I saw him no more. Then I awoke and saw you all; ” and she
| S j arose, went to the Dervish, and, prostrating herself, kissed his feet, and
! / j then laid her head against them, and then kissed Zora’s feet, and then
I (i her father’s, and mother’s, and sisters’ all round; and all of them wept
j) I tears of joy, while her mother became so excited and hysterical, that
|) she was led away for awhile, and the old man gave directions as to
| < j where a strong charm was to be pasted up over every door and window;
! j j and, calling the girl, he placed another amulet in a handkerchief, and
i (| bound it round her arm, until a proper silver case could be made for it;
!L also one to be worn round her neck, attached to her necklace. And he
put his hands on her head, and wished her joy and peace in her life, and
children to cheer it.—From “A 'Noble Queen," by Col. Meadows Taylor.
“ 0. R.” asks if we agree with Mr. Markley’s estimate of “ Society in
j 1878,” printed in the last number of The Spiritualist. No. That such weeds
of humanity as he describes are plentiful in our overcrowded large towns is
i obvious, but they are not “ Society.” The unnatural size of our large towns,
the vices and deterioration of the race springing therefrom, the fierce compo-
1 tition for the moans of subsistence, and the chronic disaffection of Ireland,
| are all due to a bad system of land tenures, long abolished in every other
civilised country.
276
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec., 6 1878.
PROFESSOR HUXLEY ON PSYCHOLOGY.
The following report is from last Tuesday’s Standard. So far as the
statements therein go, Professor Huxley appears to be totally ignorant
of the existence of the most remarkable psychical phenomena of
modern and ancient times :—
At the London Institution, Finsbury-circus, Professor Huxley
lectured yesterday to a very large and attentive audience on “ The
Elements of Psychology.” Starting with the trite general observation
that human beings are composed of body and mind, the learned Pro¬
fessor pointed out that it was doubtful whether people do in practice
draw so clear a distinction between bodily and mental phenomena as
they suppose. Thus a person suffering from toothache would be little
prepared to believe that his sensations were purely mental. A lover of
music who had been enjoying a piece of Beethoven’s at a concert, would
in the same way be almost indignant if it were suggested that there
was nothing but mere corporeal pleasure and feelings in the sounds
which had passed through his mind. So, again, the enjoyment of a
picture gallery would generally be held to be of a purely mental and
highly intellectual character, while discussing the flavours presented by
an exceedingly good dinner would not be generally regarded as culti¬
vation of the mind ; and yet all these cases dealt with sensations of
the ear, the eye, and the tongue, and there was nothing, on the face of
it, why one of these sets of phenomena should be looked upon as mere
corporeal and bodily things, while the rest were regarded as mental.
Having explained in his happiest style what constitutes the essence of
the distinction between bodily and mental phenomena by the hypothe¬
tical case of a blind man describing his own sensations consequent on
a pistol being fired close to him, and a skilled but stone-deaf physiolo¬
gist’s description of the actual physical phenomenon produced by the
vibrations of the air acting through the ear, brain, nerves, and muscles
of the blind man, he showed that we all have, acting contemporaneously
on what we call ourselves two sets of phenomena, one of which—the
mental, or subjective impressions—could, though we were perfectly
conscious of them, only be known to ourselves, while the other set of
phenomena were the subjects of investigation of physiologists, could
be made visible to the eye, and, though we knew nothing about them
in ourselves, were exactly those things for which there was the best of
evidence—and they were known as objective phenomena. Corporeal or
objective phenomena therefore could be studied by other persons;
while mental or subjective phenomena were those of which a man him¬
self was alone conscious. Psychology meant in its technical sense a
scientific investigation of mental phenomena; it ought to run parallel
with the studies of the anatomist and physiologist, and there was
nothing very difficult in its study if the student freed himself from all
matters not matters of direct observation. David Hume had called the
phenomena of mind by the name of perceptions, subdividing them into
the sensations of the senses—sight, hearing, taste, and touch, to which
must be added the muscular sense, pleasures and pains. Many pains
were connected with sensations, and he thought all sensations became
painful if they were only intense enough. The converse, however, was
not true, for he was not aware of any sensation which could be dealt
with so as certainly to give pleasure. Another important point was
that there were many pleasures and pains which were generated by two
sensations 'coming together, of which the effect of harmonious and
discordant notes was an example. What was true of the sense of
hearing, applied to all the senses more or less. There was a set of
feelings neither pleasures, pains, nor sensations, but which were
produced by two sensations coming together into the mind in a par¬
ticular fashion. Supposing a man with no sense except sight to be
brought up in darkness, and that there came within the field of his
vision a red light, that man, for the first time, would have a state of
consciousness, a sensation of redness. If, shortly after, two red lights
appeared, he would have, not only two sensations, but a feeling of co¬
existence. If one red light appeared, and then another, there would
then arise the peculiar feeling or state of mind called succession. If
one red light and one green appeared, there would arise at once the
feeling of difference. These three sets of feelings were what were
termed feelings of relations—the relation or feeling of existence, the
feeling of succession, and the feeling of similarity, or its contrary,
dissimilarity, and they were the sum total of the primary contents of
consciousness. It was out of these materials that everything we think
about, say, or know, is built up. Explaining next that wonderful power
of reproduction in the mind of states which have already existed, which
is called by the general name of ideation, he dealt next with beliefs.
Beliefs were of two kinds—beliefs relating to the past, called memories,
and beliefs relating to the future, which were called expectations ; and
both, he contended, could be generated by experience. In conclusion,
he dwelt on the debateable question of the connection between mental
and corporeal phenomena.
Private spirit circles are increasing in number in County Durham.
The Psychology op Music.—Berlin, Nov. 27th.—Mdme. Adelina
Patti is for the first time at Berlin. The enthusiasm created by her
performance is unprecedented. Pessimism, Nihilism, and all other
grumbling fancies of the sort, are scattered to the winds by the sweet
voice of the accomplished artist. Life, which popular philosophers
declare to be worth nothing, is suddenly converted into a supreme
blessing, admitting, as it does, of emotions such as are awakened by
Patti. The soul, which only yesterday doubted its own existence, is
to-day made conscious of its reality by the charm and melodious
sentiment of an accomplished singer. There might be better methods
of realising the transcendental, yet art is one among others.—“ Times ”
Telegram.
Mr. Alexander Duguid, of Kirkcaldy, the brother of Mr. David
Duguid, the painting medium of Glasgow, has been holding sSances at
his own house for some time past, and has developed into a trance
speaking medium. At the request of a few friends, he has given
seances in Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Dundee.
Mad Poets.—-
This wretched brain gave way,
And I become a wreck, at random driven,
Without one glimpse of reason or of heaven.—Moore.
There are manifold considerations which give to mad poets as a class a
romantic interest, even a fascination, to scientific minds. Among these
are the inquiries, first, whether the mental exaltation, excitement, the
transcendental ecstasy, being carried above themselves, out of them¬
selves, attributed to the stage of inspired composition, as the psycholo¬
gist contends, or the hypersemia, the blush of redundant blood which
then suffuses the grey matter and the genetic cells which it contains, as
the physicist believes, tend directly to the production of diseased
thought and feeling; secondly, whether the descent, the original or
acquired predispositions, the nurture, the situation, the surroundings
of imaginative natures augment the proclivities to insanity; thirdly,
whether the ideal world in which these inventors live and have their
being, the phantoms and phantasmata with which this creation is
peopled, the exaggerated sentiments and sensations, even the hyper¬
bolical expressions to which they accustom themselves, may not impart
morbid tendencies to consciousness, even to their physical constitution;
fourthly, whether their habits, conduct, sense of moral and religious
responsibility are calculated to disturb or conserve the mental
equilibrium; fifthly, whether the proportion of poets who become insane
is larger than that in other sesthetical classes; sixthly, whether the
alienation to which such men of genius are subject differs in kind and
symptoms from that which invades the capacities of less gifted mortals ;
seventhly, where the poetic vein of golden ore may be detected in the
outpourings of ideality after it has been blighted.—Journal of Psycho¬
logical Medicine and Mental Pathology.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. M.—We cannot tell from the way in which you have sent your interesting
letter whether you intended it for publication.
Readers in the United Kingdom who receive The Spiritualist by post are
reminded that their subscriptions for 1879 are due by the end of this
month. The journal is sent post free to any part of these islands for
10s. lOd. per annum. It is posted in London every Thursday night.
J. T. R.—You speak of meetings to come off on “ the 27th, 29th, and 30th,”
without giving the month. Your letter is also undated. We presume it
all relates to the past.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand)
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
GrEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
37te Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. Those
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at s'eances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Dec. 6, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
r. MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
r” BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geologicai
• specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them: they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant placeswon earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results'and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BTf ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
2Vie 11 Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature's Divine Revelations . . •
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ •
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . ■
Magic Staff An Autobiography oi A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual . •
Death and the After-Life .
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmomal Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . •
Morning Lectures . . • • •
*. d.
. 15 o
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 5 0
. '2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing In
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History ot American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my .Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind'; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three veils. ... .... IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, pri se
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIO MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Oontentlonabout Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
now to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to 1 drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this m&terialistlo, consequently irreligious age,"
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Bostor, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of '
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priwi objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena be undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SAEGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers. «
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in tho
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofi of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kisliugbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumslup ot
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections ta
Spiritualism — Tho Satanic Theory — Ouldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. I and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes's
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
camagelpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London; W. II. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS. ,
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidenee of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter.J.L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E' idence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaio—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, 'W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present onsend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever priuted in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium-
sbin of Cora L. V. Tappan-Bichmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-MortemWork by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Saps'ea.
Mr. Slollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life oj Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals.
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By tlie Baroness Adelma Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady ot Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burse.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By B. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De ProfUndis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXYII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Os.on.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Predio ion. By Alice Wortliington (Ennesfailen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XLI Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette Jlakdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G. S.
XLV.—A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship -. its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to bold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 33, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.: or six copies post free
for 6d.
IT
THE SPIRITTJALISff.
Dec. 6, 1878.
Now Beadyv. PJjcelSs. 6d.
THE P S Y C HQJ^.QiG-1 C A L REVIEW.
PUBfcJSimD QUARTERLY.
v M U r OOTOBBE.
CONTENTS:—
I—Whs; must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II.—Astrology, Ancient and Modern.
III. —Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
IV. —Immateriahsm at Brussels. By J. 0. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan. ‘
VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VII.—Pilgrimages; in Prance. No. III.—Pbntigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rey.?H.i(N..Grimley.
VIII.—Btihme’s Seven Days of Creation—iTStudy. By A. A.
Watts. ^ i, - '«■
IX.—Materialistic MysticiimA^ j
Hutton on Scott’s Supernatlftiralism^The ‘Education ofjfthe
Feelings—Around the Wo'rl&iwith<Dr' Peebles—Evolution.'* V
E. W, ALt;EN,l!lngA’y6>]MaI’ia:lane,< E.O. *> ■
'Pfice!’Cd^p68t%ee,' 7Jd.; cloth.
2 fBpal Prize essays. "
The ,probable effects of spirit-
. -uabiSmupon the social, moral, and reli-
GIQHS-jcONDTTION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anda^lSbkwell ahd'Mr.’G. F. Green.
Thesb^Es'says won the First and Second Gold Medals |
or the British National Associatioilpb’§pirithalists.')
' TAe .NewspaperiBrancirCfflce,rLbhd6"nt»'-
SPIRIT PEOPLE.7—- scierititficallyV accurate
description of 'manifbs^.ti^hs ^*recei^tly,.'prodi!cfed,f by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by*the Author;and 6th,er'
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. * Ximp’816th,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.  -  
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiqucs, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every months* Price,’ 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme^ 7, Rue de Lille,, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leynaarie.~ ’E.t*-- , , ,.. , ,.
PSYeHISGHESTUDIEE'.AMonthly Journal
,-r,devoted to.thedhv’estigatibn of ithe’Yinexplained iphenb-
mena of psychic life.’ Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mctze. London:1 The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS."-
In thirty" .years1 SpirJtualigin has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until' it no'w has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty p'erfodicdlsi^Itihas
also outlived the same popular abuse which at tha: mitsSt
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true/Jhat tfie"faps'*afld?bthe'ri fio’tses^gpyerned ;by intelligence
werb’real, ;a,nditffiitr’s6lid:bb]pets?’Spmetim’e6';moved'injthe-i^e-
sence,pf,.’.mediiyns withbutr;beingl tpuchedj “ '
Mr7 William Crbokes; F.HS.!|,editbiiof ila.6Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviSer- of the radiemeter, and. discbvbrer of the
new jnstaljihallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, and a great number of
intelligent professional men have done the same. • , , |
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES,AT HOME.' , /
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no SpiritualiEfor
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to. be .untrue by. the. /.apt..that manifestations are
readily obtained yby private families, with, no stranger
present, and without deception by ahy member of-the family.
At the present time,thbre'’are'6ifly,about'half-a-dSzett- pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical' phenomena in all'Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not', they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors- who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple homo experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household,. and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
ft Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals^-
about the s"ame number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everythipgitp be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden- table- .with all .the .palms of the»hands in'-
contact with its top surface. Whether tne%ands,tbuch each
other or not is of nnimporlahcel Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, It. is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
. 6. "When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,’' and
two mean “Dokbtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three.raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come" to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two stances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
. BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
j,, jaBufiai Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
f Author.
Contents. 1 *
Part 1.—Miscellaneous 'Poems and Prose Writings.
, I..The Lay, of the Lazy Author.—2.>ITlje'(Song.of,the Newspaper
Editpfr—S.^ThefSong.of thefPawnbrqkerr-L4.<’The!Ca5tle.j-6. The
* Lay of f the 7F at^M'an—G. - The ‘Poetry off Sciencfe.—7 >HowJiHadji
*Al*Shacabac''waS'Plffitographed. '(A letter-fromiHstdji’Alphacabac,.
"'a fgentlSm'ani'wlfb tvisited* London on*busiilps?cohnectedf\$(thi a
iTurkishiLiJan; to'Ah MustaphaABen Buckram,* Chief^of itheACol-!
lege of Howling Dervishes aLConstantinople.)—8. The'Lay of.the -
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St.' Bride’s-Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. Fast Falls the’Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—ISLThe Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of Rhe Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law. —16., Wirbel-iewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joel”—18. The Human Hive.—19.’■The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A-Love Sopg.—21. A Vision.—22.,*Under the Limes.”—23. The
iAngeUof.Silence.,' * • - -
‘Part ZpjyWg WoWejaw^ Ballads, by^Anthony Wobblejaws.
w. 24.tThe'PubliclAnaly>st.—26. {.General Grantjs Reception at Folke-
stone.—26.)', The - Rifle. ;Gorps.—27." .Tbhy’s'3-Lament.—28."' The July
Bug.—29. xhe'Cohverted Ckfman. •
I » urntg/t • r f Opinions* of the Press. -
i -’n> M 'Erom The Morning?Post,.-
. The Morning Post, whichfstrongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, “saysComic literature which ‘
honestly deserves the epitflet seems to be rapidly becoming'a ;
thing of the past; consequently any-writeWwho; like Mr.Hamson,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour,'deserves .the praise of'ajj who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. ‘ Not thatSiis.muse :
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances.; on the .contrary, ;
some of his poems touch on the deepest" and. most sacred feelings |
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative ,
of his adventures amongst the magicians Jof*Whitechapel is quite !
one-of-the funniest things that has -beCn published for years. • • ■ j
>The«bS0k contains qujte ehough to ensure it a welcome'from I
1 whicln itsitastelul aupearance’wUl iiot detract.” The Morning f
;Post sa>ys of Th&,WobblejaiO Ballads“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
.like the same key” as The Bon Qdultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal. ■
■- “All are of marked ability.... Occasionally<iwe fiadverse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’% « -- ,
From The Graphic.
s-VThosewho can appreciate genuine,.unforced humour should
,'no,t A^\\^6,r.e^The'--Laey,Iiay\Ld,nd:iPjxsy Imaginings. Written,
.printed, published and reviewed byWilTiam H. Harrison (38, Great
Russeli-stfeCt);.’(Bb'thftheLverses andjltfie sjiort essays are-reatly
funny, aridin sbme'of the-’latter 'there' is aweiff of.’geiiiaFsatire
which adds piquancy to the fun. • The Lay oftt/ieifflewgpotppr. Kdifbr
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Tmv opthe^MOcebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of-hbw he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
HSffjs'OnI however’, Kndjyvs 'where to plant his fun, and an accu-
rdt'e sclehtffie ‘mind like ills ban make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to re.ad a pleasant,yoiume.rqagniflcently got up as a
gift-book, we commend’ The Lazy Ldys.”f
From The Bookseller.
- “An odd out :most».entertaining assortment-_ofrquaint-and
humorous fancies,,some, in verse and othersf in. progg,- and, all
written with. a. fluejit :and not ungraceful .pen.’* - The-vein: of
humour. Whtchpermegtes.them is genuine, rich/and, original, and
not at all .ill-natured.” j
1 - From Nature.
“ Sciefitiftc men-and-ma-tters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work-is - published'-ca'.d.'1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada)-;'a.'m.'50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
, adi From The British Journal of Photography.
--“-The Lazy Lays inoltiOo .many admirable pieces, some of which
are.in verse and/otheiB in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of mem excellent.. .-7 The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing'reading for an occasional spare half-hour..,. They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine, j
- “ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
■ “Mr. W. H. Harrison.ia gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility-of Versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.” .
From The Scotsman.
. “In Mr. -W.'H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose. Imaginings
thereis ago ad deal; of (broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of Solid Sense.7. - i. . . .-uj* j
^‘Y?om The Bradford Daily Chronicle.’- : 5j
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear.some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth, and gilt.. A
gorgeous "design upon the cover.... If our readers - wish to en¬
courage laziness- they have .-a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
.From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re-"
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers-, and some of The Wobblejaw'Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself.' Some'of the
shorter, poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast) .
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
» • I , . From The Bristol Daily Post.
, “ A curious pollection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merits.. f The serious, and sentimental .verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
’ From The Kensington News.
It Is “ after themanner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry*sbuls Who do quite-as much good in their day and
generation as the aUtJfbrstofi the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From, The JUqlvem News.
“It is in itself a work of-itself—original, and a cast of Its
author’s mind. It is a work of-’gr(Sat*power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling wjth<wit ana humour; and one
that may bo read many times over.. . The get-up of the book is
very handsome.” "P ► 1 •
From The Folkestone News.. ,,
»» <<a number of clever sketches and poems,-among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobble)aip .Ballads, which
.appeared* in the columns of this paper a,short time ago,
ami*which 'created such a furore at the time.” [A./A An
'irate Vrie-fiiberiOf the Town Council officially calledHhe.attention of
the MhymtSma Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ WobmiSffiJjMads,” but the members assembled“laughed at the
matter, ancfpJpceSdffid to themext-Jbfisiness. The Mayor, said that he
did not mind ctateins some very choice poems
and prose essayS^ is JJoimd'in‘cl'otpi'ichly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordmary*merit‘dh the-Jdver.
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., p&St4fr.ee,1 at the Branch Office of the
(Sih«"<wafMf'Newspaper, London, \V.C, ■ (
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, •*
By the late "Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor^ of
’ Chemistry' at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
- .... . the Duke of Argyll.
1 iThe-second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
* its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
, '. .in*thi&;couq.try;.iniconnection with Spiritualism.
’Just.puhjished, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
.post free for' 21s;. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided" Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.',
{i CHARTER II.;"—Control Exercised by the .Operator over thp Sub¬
ject* ih Various Ways—Striking Expression of'Feelings in-the Lbok
•anaiGesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the SleSper—Various
'Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by- Silent Will a'and at a
: Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep, j1
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions—Danger of "Rash1 Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy-w rfclv the1 Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources 6f Error—Medical intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies 'and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence!
r. CHAPTER IVDirect Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
.tlnST'Eyes—Vision bf Near Cbjects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retroiiision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerisfn, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena bf Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—©r. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its-Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by;6he;Operatpr—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The" Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject irfqst be Studied. ,.. • . -. ,. .
CHAPTER'VIITrance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric--
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col.'Townsend—Fakeers—
Bxtasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions,of the S liritual
World.
. CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
’ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower-. Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action"of Magnets', Crystals, etc.', on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—Hjs Odyle.is -Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the’Influence'which Causes the
Mesmeric'Phenbmen'a—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiplogical, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity! Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight!-is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A'-Force (Odyle) Universally (Diffused,' Certain!y~ Exists,
-‘and^is-Probably the Medium, of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of'the Subieet—Effects of Odyle—Sorinnam-
bulism—Suggestion,’Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid. Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by LucicTSubjeets—
Magic and Witchcralt—The Magic Crystal, and-Mirror.ietc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lhcid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism'by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions oi
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^Oppositiph to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena lObserved in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s ExherimentshWith and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases •—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced‘by ‘Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Methbd — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.'. -,,
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out ojf’iNine. Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject-hSuggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Syippitthiq Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases :|Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Traveiling Clair-
voyance2-Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man1, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
” CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions. *
• CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: "W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed-tor the - Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
‘ Holborn Printing "Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the" Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W Allen, Aye
Maria-lane, Londc d, E.O.
