BEOUSTEKM) as a NewspapeS.
S>ff) 0^ f^YdSEO^OG^ld®^
 ^ 0ro^ Mi| In <5xmt   
No. 385. (VOL. XVI.—No. 2.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1880. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
F .TAWTIS WAT.TBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Gtnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS.
By LISETTE EAELE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIO LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars aa to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by II. U*. SLAV AT SKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, .£1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of ‘ The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. Gd., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
IESIEEISI, WITH HINTS EON BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together
the results of his own experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should be treated; and be tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to the progress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment 5 and his final advice to the practitioner is, j Call it what you like, hut persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited with having written
an interesting woTk in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan._9, 1880.
Just arrived from Ahierica. A N~JSW BOOK by
EUGENE tJROWELL, M.D.,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
MB. p.. E. WILLIAMS,
61', LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5, On Thursday and
Saturday eveiilngs frohi 8 o clock for reception of
friends.
Its Inhabitants, Nature; and Plrilosophy.
Price 6s. 6d., post free. Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAYEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Teubneb and . Co., London.
JtxsT Published.
SPIRIT - IDENTITY.
By “ M.A; (Oxott.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Pricb Five Shillings, post fred.
The /Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C;
Just Published.
Price One Shilling; Cloth. Red Edges.
a clergym'an on spiritualism.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism* and setting
forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The BEY. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAM, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, Gordon Street, Gordon square
LONDON
(At Home evefy day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seyrhour-
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR, OMERIN, ..
5, NdBTHUMBEBLAND STREET, STRAND
LONDON. ‘
mesmeric healing.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, HUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered., constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured iii a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a flew life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
1VTOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
AN NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays
Crown 8vo, pp. 166, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . . His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resu/nie of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Rail Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post; 3d.
rationale of spiritualism.
MDLLE. HDET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WrOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-square.
H/TRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
Av-JL of the Fox Sisters, of New York Oity, U.S
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to 10, either at house of party or at Mrs
Kane’s rooms, must he made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
E. W. Allen, 11> Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\_y DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Addresi, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
TEE FIRST VOLUME- OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM II. HABBISON.
This book shows that one section at least of tile phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits qf departed human beings, who have parsed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
Price 6d ; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
Peize Essays.
mHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
JL SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green,
THeSe Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals oe the British National
Association oe Spiritualists,
j The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-gtreet, London, W.C. .
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
^giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior jiaper and handsomely hound iff half-calf 8s. Cd.,
post free. Cloth editioii 5s. Gd., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C,
MIND AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly iu Philadelphia, Peuna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansoih-street: J. M.
Roberts, Piiblisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents; in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample eppies free.
0^ xh% 0f and ethics nf S^itnaUam*
No.- 385.—VOjLUjVtE SIXTEEN j NujVIBER TWO,
JLiOlNTD ON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 9tli, 1880.
| TltE SPIRITUALIST ” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published "Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. 10d. per annum PoSt Free within the limits , of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON;
British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Gontributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith-
nfess.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).,
The Hon. Bobert Hale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Dapt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika). .
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjbant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. OlCott, President of the
Theosophieal Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs, Weldon (Miss Treheme).
Captain John James.
S. O. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq.,.M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Ediii-
burgh. ,
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. 0. Maurice Davie'S, D.D,-
. author of Unorthodox London.
R. D. Jenckeri, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
John E. Pardon, jjsq., M.B., ihdia.
William White, Esq., akthor of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Miss Elorence Marryat.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is.regularly on pale at 83, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Nehve des Petits Champs, Palais Boyal, PariS; 2, Liudenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Pafisi, Via, Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Ohiajat
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad,
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth;. 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Moptgoinery-place; Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
.tourhdl Office, Chicago ; 319, U^arney-street, Stin Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
Street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. Iri this |l
extraordinary book the author, who "is a Professor of Geology in America, j >
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the j \
early history Of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas- j (
bdon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they ! (
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded. ! (
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of difterent planets, i /
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta ■ | /
tion of each. The book is illustrated With numerous engravings, drawn by I)
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review I)
of. this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt i (
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to ! (
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability I (
of the narratives, therefore narrows itself down to the questiqn of the reliability ; (
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places | /
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes i)
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever !)
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of i}
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers i \
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
Prince Emue de Sayn Wittgenstein , \
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hoi- j (
stein), i , ! (
The Count de Bullet;
The. Hpn. J., L, O'Sullivan, formerly j /
American Minister at the Court of i)
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de BoUrbon, First Ljeu- I)
tehant Of the Dutch Guard to H.M. i)
j. the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavalroz (LCbri FaVre), Con- i {
, sul-General pf Franpe at Trieste, j (
William Crookes, E§q., F.B.S., editor i (
of The Quarterly Journal of Science. j (
Q. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S. . j)
St. George W. Stobk, Esq., M.A. ])
(Qxon).. . i | i
J. M. Gdlly, E’s'q:, M.D; |)
Epes Sargeht, Esq.
Hehsleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George WJld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D., i /
MelhbUrhe. j)
J. 0. Luxffiore, Esq, J.P. . . n
C. carter Slake, Es^., Hoc. Sci., Lee- I \
timer on ppmparative Anatomy at i \
Westminster Hospital. i (
H. M. Diinphy, Esq. j
Algernon Joy, Esq,, M, Inst. C,E. !(
Hesmbnd EitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E. ! (
J. A. Campbell, Esq. , )
H. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can- ;)
tab).; .. . . t. .. * , )
T. P. Barkas,.Esq,, F.G.S. 1)
J. N. T. Martheke, Esq. i \
Mrs..Showers’.. i ... „ !(
William Srbwtbn, Esq., F.B.G.S. j •(
H. G, Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of I
Letters to Miss 'Martihedu. i /
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF BREATHING
NITROUS OXIDE.
We have received the following letter in connec-
tidh with the interesting question raised by Dr. Wyld
of the psychological influence of anaesthetics:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist^
Sir,—Since the publication of Dr. Wyld’s article in your last
number, a remarkable statement, has beeii made to trie by a
gentleman to 'whom I had just administered ah anaesthetic.
Knowing my patient (an eminent literary reviewer and critic) to
be of great intelligence, I asked him immediately on recovery to
describe any sensations or impressions be might have experienced.
With considerable earnestness and excitement he said (in nearly
his own words), “ I thought I had in some way, you know, got to
the bottom and behind everything, saw the cause and reason of
things, and utiderstood the mystery of life and the great secret
that all have sought. And I called to others to put in writing
what it was. and how I found it out, but I now remember nothing
mdre than this.” WaHteb H. Coffin.
Junior Athenaeum Club, Piccadilly, W., Hecember 28th, 1879.
The above sensations may be compared with these
of Sir Humphrey Davy, who made a long Series of
experiments upon himself, to ascertain the effects of
breathing nitrous Oxide. About one of his earlier
experiments he says:—
“ I gradually began to lose the perception of ex¬
ternal things, and a vivid and intense recollection of
some former experiments passed through my mind,
so that I called out, ‘ What an amazing concatenation
of ideas !’”
In end bf his later experiments Sir Humphrey
Davy experienced the following sensations :—•
“ I began to respire twenty quarts of unmingled
nitrous oxide. A thrilling extending1 from the chest
to the extremities was almost immediately produced.
I felt a sense of tangible extension highly pleasurable
in every limb; fhy visible impressions were dazzling,
and apparently magnified; I heard distinctly every
sound in the room, and was perfectly aware of my
situation.* By degrees, as the pleasurable sensations
increased, I lost all connection with external things;
trains of vivid visible images rapidly passed through
my mind, and were connected with words in such a
manner, aS to produce perceptions perfectly novel.
I existed in a world of newly connected and newly
modified ideas^ I theorised—I imagined -that I made
discoveries. When I was awakened from this semi-
delirious trance by Dr. Kinglake, who took the bag
from my mouth, indignation hnd pride Were the first
feelings produced by the sight of the persons
about me. My emOtiohs were enthusiastio and
sublime; and for a minute I Walked round the room,
perfectly regardless of what was said to me. As I
recovered my former stale of mind I felt an inclina¬
tion to communicate the discoveries I had made
during the experiment. I endeavoured to recall the
* In all these experiments, after the first minute my cheeks became purple,
—H. D.
14
THE SPIRITUALIST. • Jan. 9, 1880.
ideas; they were feeble and indistinct; one collec- K
tion of terms, however, presented itself; and with I)
the most intense belief and prophetic manner, I j\
exclaimed to Dr. Kinglake, 1 Nothing exists but j)
thoughts !—the universe is composed of impressions, K
ideas, pleasures, and pains ! ’ About three minutes I)
and a half only had elapsed during this experiment, h
though the time, as measured by the relative vivid-
ness of the collected ideas, appeared to me much n
longer.” |<j
On the assumption that anaesthetics occasionally |\
separate the soul from the body, the above is an j)
example how entrance into the spiritual state sud- K
denly transformed one of the greatest physicists of i)
modern times into an idealist. is
Sir Humphrey Davy did not enter this exalted j)
state on the first occasion of breathing nitrous oxide. IS
He frequently breathed the gas, and felt pleasure in j)
so doing; he gradually increased the quantity inhaled IS
until he reached the maximum in the foregoing |<
experiment; consequently, it would seem that a long j >
series of trials with each individual is necessary in I (
order to ascertain by experiment whether the spirit |S
can be temporarily separated from the body by the j (
use of nitrous oxide. The after effects of the ex- j S
periment just quoted were pleasing; Sir Humphrey u
Davy was in a happy, lively frame of mind all the jS
rest of the day. j(
Nitrous oxide has not the same effect upon all n
who breathe it. Some experience no pleasurable k
sensations ; others acquire a headache; others again j j
indulge in lively muscular exercise. Mr. Wynne, K
M.P., was one of the first to try its effects ; he inhaled |)
seven quarts of it without much effect upon his |
specially stubborn organism. One James Thomson I
found it to cause pains of the day before in his back ||
and knees to return to him, and was quite sure of the |>
accuracy of his observations on this point. When ||
nitrous oxide is used before dental operations it is |)
breathed through a large orifice, and the patient k
quickly passes, as a general rule, into a state of |)
insensibility. To experience its exhilarating effects it j(
must be breathed through a small orifice. Sir j)
Humphrey Davy found that the more he breathed Is
it the more did his susceptibility to its influence |)
increase, in which respect its action upon a sensitive I \
resembles repeated applications of the power of j)
mesmerism. During the state of psychical excite- \{
ment he found the light of the sun to be painful to |)
him, in which respect his state bore a resemblance to |\
trance-mediumship. In pursuit of knowledge Sir |)
Humphrey Davy intoxicated himself in eight minutes j (
by drinking sufficient wine for the purpose; he dis- |)
covered no short cut to heaven that way, but j\
acquired a splitting headache, and experienced sen- j)
sations altogether unlike those produced by nitrous j\
oxide. It is not certain whether when under the j)
maximum influence of this gas he did not see spirits n
and hear them talk, but was afraid to say so, for he | (
owns, in the statement already quoted, to having n
seen something, and heard words in an abnormal K
way, probably by clairaudience. Davy says of the j)
after effects of breathing the gas—“ I slept much j (
less than usual, and previous to sleep my mind was |||
long occupied with visible imagery.” With a sur- j(
plusage of oxygen in the blood this result is natural; n
much carbonic acid (a retarding influence to ordinary
combustion) in the blood promotes sleep.
A wild speculation—wild because dogmatically
advanced without power of appeal to proved facts—
has been rising into notice of late, to the effect that
only those individuals who win it by the character
of their lives here are immortal; the rest die out
eternally. The advocates of this doctrine are
welcome to the following new speculation, equally
wild. Some people under the influence of nitrous
oxide find all their ideas mixed up in wild
confusion, as if barriers had broken down inside
their heads. Others find their ideas to flow
with crystalline brilliancy, and in true logical
sequence. Can it be that the former have no
developed spirit to set free, but depend for existence
upon an earthly body, whilst the others are fitted to
enter a future life ? Spiritualism gives facts some¬
what against the "conditional immortality” doctrine.
Murderers sometimes haunt houses long after the
death of their bodies; and if they survive the tre¬
mendous shock of the death of the body, very strong
evidence would be required to bring conviction that
they are annihilated by something else later on.
Moreover, spirits of bad men have in all ages fre¬
quently announced that they are growing better, are
rising higher, and are much assisted in their upward
course by the prayers of mortals for their advance¬
ment, showing that the Catholic system of praying
for the dead had some origin in truth.
If the spirit of man can be separated from the
body by the judicious use of anaesthetics, more
especially by nitrous oxide, which, when care¬
fully prepared from nitrate of ammonia, is to
most people harmless and pleasant to breathe,
a new and easy branch of experimental psychical
investigation has been opened up. Our opinion is
that Dr. Wyld is probably right in his ideas upon
this point, because in cases of natural trance, also of
approaching death, and of mesmeric sleep, we have
already three different causes of the proved occa¬
sional separation of the spirit from the body to such
an extent that it can manifest its presence at a place
far distant from its subdued and helpless mortal
envelope. Why, then, should not a fourth method
of entrancing the body produce a like result, and
for the time being transform highly educated and
cultm’ed men into inspirational mediums ? Several
dentists interested in Spiritualism are experienced in
the use of nitrous oxide, and if they try psychical
experiments therewith, they should, just at the
moment when they appear to have separated the
spirit of a sensitive from his body, attempt to
control that sensitive by mesmerism, and order
his spirit to communicate through a trance, clair¬
voyant, or physical medium who is then sitting
at a seance in some place far distant. Rapport,
in the form of previous personal acquaintance,
between the sensitive and the distant medium may
possibly be a necessary condition to ensure success,
for the law of natural affinity exercises a powerful
influence in most spiritual visitations.
Experimental research at The Spiritualist office in
Bloomsbury has been stopped for a month or two
past, to give us leisure to issue new books wanted by
the movement. When they are resumed, nitrous
Jan. 9, 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST. 15
oxide will be used in the physical part of some of j
the experiments to be tried, so perhaps it may be a |
little used in psychical experiments such as have j
been suggested in this article ; but those who would j
take up the latter branch of research at once would
confer a public benefit. It is much to be regretted
that no mesmerists are trying experiments much
needed to elucidate spiritual problems, and that
they do not appear to understand their necessity.
THE NEW YEAR.—A GREETING-.
Sir,—This sentence in the Medium has fastened itself upon
me, and I would it had, or would now do, upon all Spiritualists,
and all earnest workers for the cause, even if working in different
grooves, and appealing to different classes of thinkers :—
“We are learning to love one another, and we thank most
heartily the many brothers and sisters who have sent us their
good wishes.”
I sat up and heard the old year tolled out and the new year
rung in. Sadly on the still night lingered the first sounds ;
merrily did the second waken the echoes and enliven the dark¬
ness. Do our best spirits surround us at such times P And as
we look back into the pathos of the past, do we look forward
with a glow of new hope for the future P—hope golden with
inspiration for a new life, in which old mistakes are buried, or
remembered only as beacon fingers to point to a nobler way ?
That old year 1879 was a sad one. Evil seemed to hover over
us the year through. "Hard times” they were, indeed, to
many, and it seemed often that instead of chastening into nobler
life they hardened the soul into adamant, and froze up all the
springs of charity. And yet, amidst it all, what love has been
discovered in our midst! There has been a union among many
for good works which has been as surprising as it has been pleas¬
ing, and full of augury for the future.
We have worked together, and, I trust, in the dark days about
Christmas, have learnt to love one another. Let us now all take
hands and wish each and all a “ Happy New Year” and “ God¬
speed ” to all. Yes, only as God enters the shadowy future with
us will there be light even to the righteous, and a peace that is
past understanding.
That is a sad poem of Buchanan’s in this month’s Con¬
temporary Review, unless we look upon it as a beacon light
which discovers God and the future, for which poor Clifford
yearned, yet failed to discover. The spirit of a little child was
all that was wanted to ennoble the “ pale professor.”
Shall “ Spiritualism ” this year bear the torch into the dark
mazes of materialism and discover what no analysis or curious
scrutiny will ever find ? Surely the mission is a grand one, and
too big with the “ potency of life ” for any small elements of
discord to enter ! On the threshold of the year let us recognise
all workers, and wish each other God-speed in our several ways,
for they all lead to
“ One far off divine event.”
“ And hear at times a sentinel
That moves about from place to place,
And whispers to the vast of space
Among the worlds, that all is well.”
Morell Theobald.
A SEANCE IN NEWCASTLE. /
To the Editor of the “ Northern Daily Express,” Dee. 27,1879. j
Sir,—Your correspondent, who appropriately designates him- ;)
self “Darkness,” has written a burlesque description of a seance |
at which he was not present, and of which he apparently knows j)
nothing. In that respect, however, he is only in the position of i)
all unbelievers in the phenomena, as I have not yet met with one j)
careful and extensive investigator who does not at least admit j (
that many of the phenomena which occur at seances are genuine, ! (
and that they have not been satisfactorily accounted for by refer- | S
ence to recognised natural laws. The facts are that at a stance i >
held in Newcastle last week there were present two well-known )
scientific men, nine well-known local ladies and gentlemen, and I (
myself. The two scientific gentlemen carefully examined the j)
enclosure, which formed a perfect closed cabinet for the recep- I)
tion of the medium, and expressed themselves quite satisfied with U
the arrangement, stating that it appeared to be the most complete
arrangement for the test they had witnessed. The cabinet is
formed in the corner of a room; its area is three and a half feet
by three feet. It extends entirely from the floor to the ceiling,
and is completely enclosed by a framework of wood, covered with
a strong closely-woven gauze netting, which is firmly fixed to the
wooden framework. The recess is closed by a door, and the door
is fastened from the outside by two strong screws in such a
manner as to render it impossible by any ordinary means for a
person enclosed within the cabinet to free himself without damag¬
ing the structure in such a way as to be at once apparent
to any ordinary examiner. So secure is the enclosure that I
challenge any conjurer to release himself from it without
doing manifest and easily discovered damage to the frame¬
work by which he is enclosed. At a few minutes past
eleven the medium entered the recess, and the door was
closed and secured from the outside by the scientific gentle¬
men, who expressed themselves as entirely satisfied with the con¬
ditions. We sat in a semicircle, a scientific stranger being at
one end of the semicircle, and myself at the other end. No
visitor was nearer the enclosure than seven feet, and the majority
of the sitters were from eight to ten feet from the closed recess.
The enclosure was covered by a dark curtain in close proximity to
it. The light during the whole seance was such that I could
see with ease every person present in the room, and could at any
time read the dial of my watch. The seance continued for
upwards of two hours, and for the first three-quarters of an hour
the time was occupied by conversation and singing. At twelve
o’clock the curtain was gradually opened, and a female figure of
small adult size made its appearance. It was draped very pro¬
fusely in white raiment, and had a large greyish-white shawl over
her shoulders. This form professed to be a departed friend of a
gentleman present. She shook hands with several of the visitors,
and embraced, one of the ladies present. The form moved
cautiously about the room, and was visible about fifteen minutes.
She was succeeded by another female form of average size, who
moved about with great energy and activity. She came hastily
to me, took me vigorously by the arm, and led me within the
curtained recess. When there she directed my hand to the
screws fastening the door of the enclosure, and I found them
tightly and firmly fixed, and the door secure. She then took the
reater portion of the audience in succession within the curtain, and
irected their attention to the screws and fastenings. This form
was quickly succeeded by a diminutive child-like form about three
and a half feet high, who spoke in a piping child-like voice.
She spoke to almost every sitter in the room. She came towards
me and took me to the centre of the room, when she desired me
to kneel, and in that position I found that the child-like form
before me was about six inches less than I was when kneeling.
She patted my cheeks with warm, small hands, laid her right
cheek against my right cheek, and afterwards directed me to
place my hand on the floor, which I did, and upon it she placed
her naked, soft, and child-like foot. She called several of the
other sitters towards her, and repeated to them the little tokens
of affection and good-will she had manifested towards me. The
figure was with us about half an hour, and on retiring she was
quickly succeeded by a tall female figure, who indicated that she
intended to open the door of the recess and bring out the medium
into the room. This she speedily proceeded to do by unscrewing
the fastenings by which the door was secured and throwing them
into the room. She then took the chair on which the medium
sat, and pushed it into the centre of the room with the medium
in it, and with the partially obscured form of the medium : when
this had been accomplished the psychic figure became invisible.
At this stage of the proceedings the two scientific gentlemen had
engagements which required them to leave the room, and the
result was that the latter part of the seance was somewhat dis¬
organised, and the proceedings terminated. The remarkable
features of this seance were that four different psychic forms ap¬
peared, walked, spoke, asked and answered questions, and dis¬
played many of the specific peculiarities of ordinarily organised
human beings, when no such normal human beings were in
the room, and when it was impossible for the medium by
normal means to escape from the recess and personate the
figures. I am prepared to appeal to all who were present at this
seance to corroborate my descriptions, and I challenge any
twelve non-believers in the genuineness of the phenomena to
produce similar results, under similar circumstances, at any time,
and in any place, the audience to consist of the twelve un¬
believers, myself, and a friend.^—I am, &c., T. P. Barras.
Newcastle-on-Tyne, December 25,1879.
16
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
Jan. 9, 1880.
APPARITIONS AND HAUNTED HOUSES.
The following article from The Standard news¬
paper, was republished last Saturday in Qaligwani’s
Meseengey, for the benefit of readers in France
This is the season fpr ghost stprieg. Have we pot
all in our childhood sat round the fire on a stormy
winter’s night when the wind moaned outside, as it
seetped sometimes, with a human voice; when the
dark corners of tfae room looked terribly black ; and
when a sudden flash from the logs showed iis faces
almost as scared as our own, while we listened with
a fearful pleasure to some old-world ghost story, or it
might be a modern tale of a visitor from the spirit
world ? And the wiuter time is the season for
ghosts, though many of them wander about also in
the summer. But in winter the spectre seems, as it
were, to be in his element. It is in winter that the
Gahriel-ratchet, pr corpse-hpuedSj he.ar,d yelling,
as they career along in the clear spaces of the storm-
swept sky. It is also in winter that the Bahr-Geist
comes oftepest to warn the doomed descendant of an
ancient race 5 an4 it is whop loaves have fallen that
strange lights flit about churchyards, aud that foot¬
steps are heard in old houses on stairs that echo to
no mortal tread. “ But all such things,’’ the reader
will say, “ are 4reams of the past. You are pot gpiug
to ask us tp believe that ghpsts appear at the present
day, that there are any haunted houses in our
modern cities ? Surely, sanitary improvemepts have
frightened awdy thp spectres of past times, and it
would be a bold phaptom whp would not bp spared
by the railway whistles and other noises of civilisa¬
tion/’ That may be true enough, and it is not our
present concern to argue either fpr or against the
possibility of the appearance pf departed splrh8- The
controversy, which is an endles^ one, may bp dis¬
missed with the shrewd summary of Dr. Johnson.
“ It is wonderful/? he said, “ that five thousand years
hftyp now elapsed since the preatipp of flip world,
and still it is undepided 'whether 9r not there has
ever been an instance of the spirit of any person
appearing after death. All argument is against it,
but all bplief is for it.” It may be interesting, hpw-
eyer, at this seasqp to glance at spipp old ghost storips,
and see how, even at the present day, there are people
—and sensible people too—who have, like Hamlet,
seen more things than were dreamt pf in Horatio’s
philospphy.
The most interesting glass of spectres is, un¬
doubtedly, that of family ghosts, and it may be said
that the possession pf one confers a certain air. of
respectability on a fapiily. Fqr yqur wrhehrf fihpppt
nianpfapture a ghP$t, thoggh he cap. order faprily
portraits by the yard. And if he buys an old place
and the pictures of the family who once lived there,
not for him dr his guests will the daughters of the
ancjeut hopge descend frqrp the canvas ' of Vandyke
and walk the long corridors in the sflent watches of
the night. There is no trace, says Mr. Hannay, of
the family ghost proper among the ancients;’ like
hpraldry, it is essentially feudal, apd pot classical;
and we find such phantoms in very il}ustriops
families. Is there not the Weisse Frau, a fatal
“ White Lady,” of the Hohenzollerns, who walks the
Schloss at Berlin as a warning that kings are mortal ?
In Frederick the Great’s father exclaimed that he saw
l> this ghost just before his death, and her appearance
K! was reported at Aschaffenburg as heralding the de-
! ! cease of Queen Therese of Bavaria, nLe Petit Homme
j(j Rouge,” of the Bourbons, has been immortalised by
|> i 4 Bdranger pnor would it be difficult to find other ghosts
||j as illustrious. Of ghosts belonging to old families
hi other than kingly races there are enough and to spare.
1)1 Byron has told us of the Monk of JNewstead; the
j)l “black friar” that sat “by Norman stone;” and in
hi the same category may be placed “the Lad of
l/| Hilton,” the spectre of a boy done to death by a
hi baron of that name; the fatal drummer of the House
m of Airlie, whose ghostly tattoo presages death; the
1)1 “ Bodach Glas,” or Grey Man, which belopged to
morp than one Scottish family; and the hereditary
| ! banshees of the M‘Carthys, Butlers, and O’Neills.
j( j Such ghosts are like the Burg-Geist, or castle spectre,
j)| of many a German family .; and whether or not they
h| are, as Sir TJipmas Brpwne says, the “ wandering
m squjs of pfen, but tpp unquiet walks of dpvils,” certain
it is that they were strenuously believed in by our
i|| forefathers, that faith in them exists at the present
l(|. day, and that the remembrance of them will long live
IIJ in legend and spng.
No belief will ever die so hard as that in haunted
h| houses. The poet has described such a habitation for
j (j ps, when he wrote—
|n “ Q’er all them lijing the shadow of a fear,
id ' A sense of mystery the spirit daunted,
H Aod said, as plain as whisper in the ear,
The hpu§e is haunted-’’
|) | Even in this prosaic age there are those who have
j); had to acknowledge that in certain houses they haye
l|| seep and heard things which are inexplicable by the
b qrdinary laws of nature. Science ha? advanced, bqt
l)| it has not explained all that is now and again
I) | vouched for by the evidence pf credible witnesses in
|:\| prore than one habitation in different parts of the
m country. There are sfill housps in existence, wp are
|| told, which cause an undefinable feeling of dread to
m all who cross the thresholds. There arm others
|| wherein footsteps are listened to in the silence of the
Id night when no ope treads, apd bells ate heard to
S i ring, althpngh np hand tpiicpes the rppesi Tnete
111 are rooms in ancient houses in which a strange
] shuddering sound seems to quiver through the air
Id w’hen any one enters them, a? wp^ ^he chse in one
I reported some years age near Enfield Chase- During
the last few years there have been stories afloat
m concerning hapnted hprisea ip mapy parts of the
II eppptry, apd dppbtless our readers could supply
I) | many more. To instance only a few of them, Sizergh
id Castle, in Westmoreland, had an uncanny reputa-
>S tion, and there was a house in a London square, of
1(1 which the late Lord Lyttelton wrote as follows in
|| Notes and Queries some yeprs ago:—“It is quite
Ilf true thpt fhere is a hopse’jn ^ei-kelpy-squarp 'safd
I to be haunted, and long unoccupied on that account.
| There are strange stories about it into which the
| depopent cannot'enter.” There was plso a house
j at Willingtpn Depp, neap Newcastle,' which wqs
| closed- under the belief tfiat H was haunted.
Strange doings, likewise, are reported to have
taken place in old days in the Rectory of
Warblington; and was not Beckingtpn pastle,
ITTJALIST.
17
Jan. 9, 1880. THE SPIR
near Frome, at one. tircie positively advertised as
haunted ? The old parsonage at East Lavington had
the same reputation ; the Easterton rghost at Fid-
dingtqn, near the same place, was notorious; there
was a luminous chamber in an old house near
Taunton for many years, and stories that thrilled
people., were told of Stapleton Castle. There is a
house in Coatham, in Yorkshire, in which a weeping
woman is said to hang over the cradle of any child
who sleeps in a partjcular ropm.. Nay more, one
babe oyer whom this wejrd visitor was seen to bend
is reported to gaze into vacancy and see her still,
though no other eyes are conscious of her presence.
There is a house at Catfofd Bridge in which dwelt,
until qpite recently, a; gentleman well known in
Lopdop circles, and his wife and child. The wife
saw a little man in a grey coat cross her bedroom
one night and disappear, as it were, into the cheval
glass. She said nothing at ah about it, but a short
time afterwards, in the same fopm, the nurse ex-
claiined that she had spen vyhat must have been her
father’s ghost; she knew him, slip said, “ by his grey
coat.” Still nothing was said to the master of the
house, until he, in his turn, called upstairs to his
wife in a startled voice, and in his fright dropped
the candlestick, exclaiming he had seen a man in
grey going up thp stairs. Here, then, were three
independent witnesses of the same ghostly visitor,
evidently one very like the ancestral spectre of the
Hopse of Douglas. But, indeed, authentic ghost
stories—that is to say, .occurrences vouched for by
perfectly nqngst observers,, who, at all events, really
beljeve they saw that to winch they bear witness—
arp eudless, as are the tales of appearances to friends
and relatives at a distance just as the soul was,
presupiably, leaving the body. There are a vast
number, . too, of wliat may be called historic
ghqst s.torjpa haqded dowg in all the books on
the subject; such, for example, are the vigil of
the Earl of Sf. yipcent; the Beresford ghost
and fhe.. ydthpred ymst; the apparition of' the
dead ytynyard ; the warning ’the second Lord
Lyttelton is said to have received of his own death ;
apd thp account .of thp ghost in the Tower of
London,' where such a visitor, pne would think,
would not lack company,, though there might be a
scarcity of head? aipopg them.
Opportunely at this seaspn, \yhpn ghostly visita¬
tions are held to be mprp frequent than at other
times, and when, at all events, there is generally
mpre talk about them, Mr. Wirt Sikes, who is the
United Sfatps Consul for Wales, comes forward to
tpll us, in a handsome volume, nU abput “British
Goblins” (Sampson Low and Co.). It deals with
Welsh fairips and ghosts, and, according to his
account, that country is especially r|ch in folk-Jord
relating \o spch subjects. Wp are told that the laws
winch govern the Welsh spirit world are clear and ex¬
plicit. For instance, a ghost put on a pertain errand
has UP power of speech until first spoken to, which
will be consoling to nervous people for whom the
sight pf a spectre is quife enough, wifhout the
additional .unpleasantness of his conversation. It
appearSj further, that a ghost, like a good many other
perspns, does not like to be interrupted when speak-
ng, though after it has finished you may ask I
)j questions. These, agam, must be strictly to the point,
sj or the spectre will probably lose its temper, and a
ghost in a rage seems to be capable of any villany.
\| As to the ghosts of departed mortals we are told that
)j they are very often those of suicides—a belief that
sj prevails in many countries ; indeed, a suicide is sq
) certain to “ walk ” that it is the height of unkind-
s ness to bring him into a churchyard full of well-
) behaved gentlemen who desire to sleep quietly after
si “life’s fitful fever.” No, he should be put down at
(! the cross-roads with his own particular stake ; and
sj even then we are told, “ It is a brave man who will
<1 go to the graye of a suicide and play ‘Hob y deri
>1 dando ’ on the Jew’s harp without missing a note,”
(| though we are not informed whether it is that par-
sj ticular tune or the instrument on which it is played
( that makes the spectre so irritable. Household
si ghosts are comnronly believed in by Welshmen, and
(I we find, too, innumerable stories of transportation
sj through the air. Among the most common of
(j spectral animals is the “ Dog of Darkness,’’ which
sj has its counterpart in the Mauthe Doog of the
u Isle of Man, and the Shock of the coast of Norfolk,
) j while there are many grotesque ghosts addicted to
| aerial gymnastics and feats of horsemanship, who
often appear with coloured faces, and who not un-
si commonly are of gigantic stature. It is due also to
n Wales to say that the devil has appeared there, as
sj elsewhere, and we learn that there was even a tailor
)j in Cardiganshire who “had the honour of making
(j a suit of clothes for his sulphuric majesty,”
)j which is perhaps not surprising when we remem-
Ij her that, according to the proverb, the devil lives
j in the middle of Wales. 'As in other countries,
! too, compacts with the fiend are de?Pribe(|> in which
j he invariably gets the worst of it, being usually out-
j witted by some trick that would not have deceived a
j child. More interesting still are the Cambrian (Icnfl1
j portents. The Wejsh bqye fhe Banshee like the Irish,
j only under another name; and we arc also told of the
j Aderyn y Corph, or Corpse Bird, which chirps at the
j door of the persop ahopt to die, while thunder and
j lightning are thought to portend the decease of the
! great man oi the parish- Then, again, there is a
! female goblin of hideous ugliness, called the Gwrach
j y fihibyn, another a groaning spirit, and then we
j come to the Tolaeth, an ominous noise, imitating an
j earthly sound—it may be a voice, a footstep, qr the
j ring of a bell—which always presages death or some
j great catastrophe. The Cwn Annwnn of “Dogs of
I Hell ” hunt in the upper sky, like the “ Gabriel-
j ratchet,” and, as Mr. Sikes justly remarks, no form of
j superstition has a wider popularity than this of
j j spiritual hunting dogs, which may or may not be
j accpmpanied by a spectral huntsman. The Teuleu, or
Ij goblin death procession, heard and seen as an omen of
I a real funeral, and the corpse candle, are not peculiar
to Wales ; but)the legend which assigns the origin of
death portents to St. David, who prayed that his flock
! might have a sign of the immortality of the soul and
j another life by a presage of death, is of course peculiar
j to the principality of which he is the tutelary saint.
Next Monday evening Mr. W. Eglinton, the medium, will
read a paper' before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism.
18
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1880.
THE DOCTRINES OF TOTAL DEPRAVITY AND
ETERNAL PUNISHMENT.
The following inspirational utterances were given
through the organism of Mr. Thomas Lake Harris,
while he was in a state of trance. They were taken
down in shorthand, and published in his Lyric of the
Golden Age:—
When the thunder-blast
Devours the blossoms of the woods and fields,
The budding fruitage and the ripened grain,
And smites the sheepfold and destroys the lambs.
The country mourns and chronicles the tale.
And calls it ruin;—but when madmen rave
And curse and foam in pulpits, till the young
Crowd fearfully and throng the anxious seats.
And call for mercy from the wrath of God,
And fear lest, unconverted, they should wake
From their next slumber where the quivering heart
Writhes ’neath the crushing heel as writhes the worm.
Trampled by God Almighty; when dread groans
Rise from convulsing bosoms, and the brain
Is scourged to madness; when the mother goes
And drowns her infants in the wintry flood,
And immolates herself—dear mother-heart,
Dear woman-heart, likest of all to Christ,
Yet driven all desperate with mother fear—
Seeking to save in heaven their tender souls.
By taking up her home with spirits damned ;
When young men cut their throats; and maidens fall
In terrible convulsions, that bring on
Consumption and the grave, before the snow
Has melted from the graveyard; when despair
Springs like a wild wolf at the dying man,
And drives its fangs into the quivering breast.
And howls through all the chamber of his pain,
“Perdition, fierce perdition;” when the home
Is ransacked and the “unconverted” wife
Called reprobate, and all one mass of sin,
Because m her serene integrity
She will not own herself a wretch all vile.
And hurl her reason prostrate in the dust,
Lay bare her secret soul, that snow-white flower,
Crouch at the knees of sleek Depravity,
And ask the prayers of Hypocritic Cant;
When life-long virtue is no shield against
The public curse; when crime and folly thrive.
And fat themselves, with ignorance and hate,
And Jesuitic artifice and craft,
And keen sectarian malice, at the board,
Heaped with the holocaust of blighted lives;—
0 then men say, “ This is the work of God,”
Unthinking that a cruel wrong is done
To body, heart and mind, to old and young,
To old men on the confines of the grave.
And unborn infants cursed within the womb.
The men who do these things are ignorant;
The Christ of Love they crucify in each
Poor tortured heart, that groans, and weeps, and dies
In utter anguish ; and the Christ of Truth
Is scourged and beaten ; in each brain the lash
Of fear and hatred lacerates; yet still
These dread assassins know not what they do.
PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S EXPERIMENTS.
Among the new books to be issued from The
Spiritualist office is a richly-illustrated translation
of the remarkable psychical experiments of Dr. F.
Zollner, Professor of Astronomy at the University of
Leipzig. The translation is now being made by Mr. C.
C. Massey, which is a guarantee of careful and con¬
scientious work; Mr. William Crookes, to whom the
last volume of the original work is dedicated, also
Professor Zollner and his publisher at Leipzig, have
given special facilities in matters of copyright, and
the appearance of the book may be expected in some
two months’ time.
PSYCHIC ACTION FROM A DISTANCE.
(From the “ Feligio-Philosophical Journal," Chicago.
j! J Dec. 13£A, 1879.)
Professor Carpenter related an incident last
/j evening showing his mesmeric power. At one of
11 his exhibitions at Paterson, N.J., he did not find a
(j sufficient number of good subjects in the audience,
j! He strongly wished that a man living in Passaic, six
>j miles distant—the best subject that ever came
si under his notice—was present. The professor was
)]> astonished, about nine o’clock in the evening, to see
this man, McAlstine by name, walk into the room
and come upon the stage, He said he was at work
S that evening, and thought the professor called him.
<| He was so strongly affected that he could work no
| longer, threw down his apron, and, finding himself
(| too late for the train, walked or ran the six miles
>j between Paterson and Passaic, so as to reach the
< | former place in time.
y| A similar exhibition of this power of mind over
(\ mind, at a distance, was once made, to satisfy himself
j! only, by Dr. S. B. Brittan, of New York, the dis-
tinguished writer and speaker on subjects related to
spiritual science. He was in Connecticut, on the
(j shore of the Sound, on a pleasant summer night,
):] when the thought occurred to him to try the experi-
(| ment of affecting the mind of a lady friend, then
)| at her residence, thirty or forty miles distant. First
u ascertaining the hour, he brought her image
)f mentally before him, and then created a mental
(! picture—a scene of great natural beauty, with
j i hills and vales, streams and waterfalls, and
(I with certain features of the landscape altogether
);| | peculiar and striking. When next he met
(I the lady her first question was, “ Where were you on
> | such an evening (naming the date and hour), and what
(i were you seeing?” Being asked the reason of her
)| question, the lady proceeded to describe the ideal
(j landscape he had projected, detail by detail, with
)i astonishing accuracy, and she told Dr. B. that in this
\| scene she saw him—though she had not recently met
H or thought of him. She was a person, moreover,
)j upon whom Dr. B. had never before tried any psych o-
/1 logical or magnetic experiment.
Another case in the same gentleman’s experience
)j was more like this one of Carpenter’s—for Dr. Brittan
yi having travelled some distance to see a man in
)| Waterbury, on some business errand, found, on reach-
\ j ing that city, that he had utterly forgotten his friend’s
)! name, and, a stranger there himself, he knew not
if where to look for him. In this dilemma he went to
(! his hotel, shut himself in his room, and, recalling the
| personal appearance of his friend, concentrated his
) | mind upon him, and willed him to come to that room,
ff He had never before attempted this experiment upon
< | this man. After the lapse of perhaps fifteen minutes,
jl the door opened, and in walked the young man him-
< | self. His first inquiry was—“ What do you want
if j with me?” He said he was at work in his factory
Ilf —one of the brass or rolling mills, we believe—when
j | he felt himself called or drawn by Dr. Brittan to that
) | hotel and that room, and finally the attraction became
> I so strong that he threw down his tools, put on
|f his coat, and obeyed the summons.—Hartford (Gt.)
\ i Times.
Jan. 9. 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST. 19
SPIRIT GUARDIANSHIP.
BY ISABEL BURTON.
A Spiritualist was sent to me yesterday, bearing
the date, 19th Dec., 1879, containing an article
signed “ Scrutator.'” It contained a description of
two incidents in my Syrian life, in which -1 was
moved by some power to do things against my will,
which had a useful object in the end. “ Scrutator,”
however, says that my husband’s farewell note to me
reached me at our house, a mile out of Damascus.
If that had. been so, there would have been nothing
extraordinary, but quite natural that I should have
joined my husband at Beyrout, as there was only a
quarter of an hour’s ride between the Consulate and the
house. But I was thirty miles away in a cottage at
the top of a mountain in the Antilebanon, 5,000 feet
above sea level, and quite out of reach of news or
communication, save the three lines I received by a
mounted messenger; and my difficulty was to descend
the mountain, cross the country at dawn, to the probable
spot where I could catch the diligence on the road.
The power that moved me was therefore so much
the stronger, and I think it is very well accounted
for by “ Scrutator.” However, as I am a Catholic, and
Catholicism is the highest order of Spiritualism,
what to “ Scrutator” is a force or spirit, is to me simply
my angel guardian, and who is to me axiactual presence,
to whom I constantly refer during the day, and who
directs everything I ask him to. When I sit with
other Spiritualists they say they can see him. I
can’t, I only feel the power. However, I am quite
sure of one thing, that nothing happens by luck or
chance, but that we are moved by our good and bad
angels, and that those who are in the habit of
meditating or reflecting a good deal arrive at a pro¬
ficiency in knowing and understanding their calls.
Trieste, December 26,1879.
SPIRIT HANDS.
BY T. L. NICHOLS, M.D.
Sir,—I have seen and felt the hands of several
materialised spirits, and have now obtained, first a
mould, and from that a cast of a beautiful hand,
under conditions which I will briefly describe.
On the ninth of December last, at my house, in a
stance at which were twelve persons, including Mr.
W. Eglinton, after some powerful physical manifes¬
tations, I placed in the room a zinc pail of melted
paraffin, and beside it one of cold water. Dr.
Frieze held Mr. Eglinton’s hands. After a few
minutes, during which we heard splashes as of hands
being dipped in the liquids, I found floating in
the cold water moulds of two hands—one that of a
child three or four years old, the other that of a full-
grown woman. Plaster of Paris has been poured
into both moulds, and the paraffin melted off with
hot water. The child’s hand is recognised by its
mother, a lady from Cape Town, who was present at
the stance. I have no doubt that the larger hand is
a cast from that of my daughter, who departed this
life in 1865. Its resemblance to mine is recognised
by every one who has seen it. The texture of the
skin and all the lines of the hand are very perfectly
marked, and there is no room for doubt as to the
method of its production. It is simply impossible
that it can be other than what I have called it—a
Ii cast from the hand of a materialised spirit. As such
| I think it may be worthy the attention of persons
I who are interested in the phenomena of spirit mani¬
festations.
32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, London, S.W., Jan. 6th, 1880.
THE ELDERS AND THE CHILD.
From u The Banner of Light f
Softly fell the touch of twilight on Judea’s silent hills ;
| Slowly crept the peace of moonlight o’er Judea’s trembling rills.
i In the Temple’s court, conversing, seven elders sat apart;
I Seven grand and hoary sages, wise of head and pure of heart.
j: “ What is rest ? ” said Rabbi Judah, he of stern and steadfast
gaze.
i “ Answer, ye whom toils have burdened through the march of
many days.”
I “To have gained,” said Rabbi Ezra, “decent wealth and goodly
i store,
! Without sin, by honest labour—^nothing less and nothing more.”
I “To have found,” said Rabbi Joseph, meekness in his gentle eyes,
]: “ A foretaste of heaven’s sweetness in home’s blessed paradise.”
I “ To have wealth and power and glory crowned and brightened
| by the pride
| Of uprising children’s children,” Rabbi Benjamin replied.
j “To have won the praise of nations, to have won the crown of
l fame,” .
| Rabbi Solomon responded, loyal to his kingly name.
| “ To sit throned, the lord of millions, first and noblest in the
land,”
\ | Answered haughty Rabbi Asher, youngest of the reverend band.
h “All in vain,” said Rabbi Jarus, “if not faith and hope have
(i traced
\ | In the soul Mosaic precepts, by sin’s contact uneffaced.”
(i Then up rose wise Rabbi Judah, tallest, gravest of them all:
\ I “ Erom the heights of fame and honour even valiant souls may
I fall;
(i “ Love may fail us, Virtue’s sapling grow a dry and thorny rod,
i i If we bear not in our bosoms the unselfish love of God.”
(| In the outer court sat playing a sad-featured, fair-haired child;
) \ His young eyes seemed wells of sorrow—they were God-like when
)| he smiled.
{| One by one he dropped the lilies, softly plucked with childish hand;
) i One by one he viewed the sages of that grave and hoary band.
(| Step by step he neared them closer, till encircled by the seven,
j | Then he said, in tones untrembling, with a smile that seemed
) | of heaven :
(j “Nay, nay, fathers! Only he within the measure of whose breast
U Dwells the human love with God-love can have found life’s
1! truest rest;
> j “ Eor where one is not, the other must grow stagnant at its spring,
M Changing good deeds into phantoms—an unmeaning, soulless
|! thing.
11 “Whoso holds this precept truly, owns a jewel brighter far
11 Than the joys of home and children—than wealth, fame, and
j glory are;
| i “ Eairer than old age thrice honoured, far above tradition’s law,
II Pure as any radiant vision ever ancient prophet saw.
| “ Only he within the measure—faith apportioned—of whose
breast
i Throbs this brother-love with God-love knows the depth of per¬
fect rest.”
| Wondering gazed they at each other: “Praised be Israel
| evermore;
He has spoken words of wisdom no man ever spake before ! ”
(I Calmly passing from their presence to the fountain’s rippling song,
} | Stopped he to uplift the lilies strewn the scattered sprays among.
(j Baintly stole the sounds of evening through the massive outer door;
> i Whitely lay the peace of moonlight on the Temple’s marble floor,
(| Where the elders lingered, silent since he spake, the Undefiled—
) | Where the Wisdom of the ages sat amid the flowers a child!
); Mary E. Mannix.
20
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1880.
EXPERIENCES AMONG MEDIUMS.
When modern Spiritualism first fell like a stone j)
into the spiritually stagnant waters of the public ||
mind, the consequent agitation was so great, that f
mistakes in dealing with a subject so novel and so j)
little comprehended might be expected and par- is
doned. We have many of us, since then, pursued a k
rough and difficult road in gaining experiences more n
or less painful in the investigation of this protean | (
and fascinating subject. Many times have I found ||
myself prostrate from the encounter with some huge j <
stumbling block, until that moment invisible in the i j
mental darkness. Many of us have turned back dis- j <
heartened; and others of us, either lured on like the ! j
donkey by a bunch of carrots before his nose, or $
perchance with our eyes fixed on the star of faith H
shining brightly in the heavens above, have valiantly i (
fought our way through all obstacles, determined to j \
push on to the end, even if it should turn out to be i |
bitter. ' " ' jj
Some of us have met with a rich reward for our
faithful perseverance in our firm belief that this ||
wonderful modern Spiritualism is the work of God, |f
and designed, however motley some of the robes it ||
may wear, for the good of the human face. And j
again, others in our ranks are still halting between )
two opinions, riding upon the horns of perpetual i(
dilemmas. Jj
Notwithstanding this unsatisfactory condition of a j<
large number of those, who call themselves Spirit- >
ualists, the “ cause,” as it is popularly termed amongst k
us, advances wifh the steady, majestic power which >
characterises all great movements. Like the ocean at | (
full tide, it encroaches upon the dry sands of mate- |;
rialistic science, and must eventually overwhelm and |
destrpy all the pigmy bulwarks erected between man
and the advancing waters of spiritual truth.
Those of us who have been faithful to our trust j)
have gained much knowledge, and have progressed |!
beyond the clouds of uncertainty. Errors have been j |
corrected and apparent contradictions reconciled; jl
some of our fond delusions, too, have been laid aside, j j
and we have grown into the knowledge that although i (
heaven may be ready to descend amongst us, and I;
may be even at our very doors if we will opep them, | (|
yet that, without the effort to open the doors of our m
hearts and piinds, without the struggle to make (
ourselves fit to climb up the mountain height of |
spiritual progress, heaven may be as far away from m
us as it used to be before the air became, to our jn
imaginations, newly filled and agitated by the ||
“ wings of the angels.” Spiritualism does not make us |
all divinely perfect. Mediums, whether public or j\j
private, are riot all angels; and though we may say I
the voice of God has cried out in oqr very midst, yet 1)1
the world at large laugks,’ and we ourselves, ps a i/j
body, by no means present an altogether edifying K
appearance. ■  d
The cause of much of this is that all sorts of jj
people range themselves under tfie banner of Spirit- m
ualism, and that the mere fact of belief in great j)j
truths does not purify the soul unless tfie spul be- m
comes av'akened to a desire for self-purification, and m
earnestly tries to attain to a more perfect life.
One great fault inside Spiritualism is the whole- m
sale abuse and persecution a few in our ranks will, iff
upon an emergency, heap upon professional mediums.
Priding themselves upon their wideawake astuteness,
which is never to be caught napping, some Spirit¬
ualists, whether newly in our ranks or of old standing,
give to mediums nothing but suspicion. Indeed, the
mediums are generally badgered, watched, and pur-
d sued by suph people with a kiqd of malevolence,
11 mistaken for cleverness at detection. These groping
! blunderers can never be brought to acknowledge
11 they are convinced of anything.
The hand of (Gfod, and the helping hands pf His
ministers of grace, must be behind the troublous
j scepp externally presented of late by Spiritualism, or
j else the despised and perspputed iqdividuals who
j have fqkep ifp the profession of mediumship would
Ippg since have left the field of strife and turmoil of
their arduous calling. They would otherwise have
i sought “ fresh fields and pastures new,” where they
j might at least be credited with being as honest as
j they appear tq be> If caqnot always be fbe con-
I sideration of money which keeps them in the raqks
j of the scapegoats. Mapy pf them, if pot all, might
| earn a certain pompetency in other callings, deemed
| more honourable of men, instead of the uncertain
j means they now contentedly scrape along with, many
| times being in want, and not always from their own
j improvidence, discredited and persecuted as they
I are, I think that, upop the whole, we may congratu-
j late ourselves that oiir professional mediums
are as respectable and well-living a bpdy as
they mostly prove themselves to bp. Except
that it would bp invidious to do so, I could
name several who—I am sure the general voice
would agree with me—are very good members of
society, and we consider that as much as we can ask
from most people. The old idea that a medium
must be a superlatively excellent individual, aud even
holy beyond the standard of their less-favoured
fellow mortals, is long since exploded. We have
learned, many of us to our cost, that mediums are of
the “earth earthy,” and as fallible as any other
human beings; indeed, that the gifts of perfect
mediumship may occasionally fall to the lot of the
immoral and the base, who do not hesitate to degrade
their gifts to mere money-getting, honest, if possible,
but if not possible, then unscrupulously dishonest.
But are professional mediums, as a rule, any worse
than their brothers and sisters, who dabble more or
less in spiritual accomplishments under the, in some
cases, convenient but very thin veil of so-called
“ privacy,” which, generally speaking, means that they
may enjoy all the advantages, and suffer none of the
penalties attached to professional mediumship ? These
belong principally to that class who sanctimoniously
pronounce it a sin to receive fees for the exercise of
their gifts; but in some instances the beggar’s tip.
cup is always understood to be held out behind the
flimsy profession of “ no fees; ” and if a diamond ring,
or other expensive jewel be dropped therein, * the
complacent pretender is as well satisfied as if it were
guineas, and would not think of returning it.
Such deeds speak for themselves: they are a
prostitution of high arid holy gifts, and merit the
utmost scorn ; but the fact that such things have
occurred and do occur, only confirms me still more ip
the opinion that the cultivation of medipmship
Jan. 9, 1880.
merely, especially the physical forms, is hot as a j j
general rule improving or uplifting. We do not find j>
our mediums, or our friends and relatives who take j<
up mediumship, ordinarily speaking, becoming more j]
angelic in their bearing and in their daily lives, h
They are just as uncharitable to their neighbours,
indulging freely in scandal, just as hot-tempered, i
deceitful, and mendacious, perhaps intemperate, as F
before they became what are, par excellence, called j<
“mediums.’^ This is, of course, owing to the unre- |J
generate condition of the inner nature: the culti- h
vation of spiritual gifts has been merely external, for ij
some purely selfish reason, such as the love of sen- j<
sation, of novelty, or perhaps for the gratification of |j
an inordinate self-conceit, or the pleasure of holding j<
an imaginary prominent position in society. Indeed, j(
I have seen some shallow brains completely turned j<
by sudden exaltation, gained because of gifts without j(
which one would be literally nothing and nobody. H
Such persons are usually excessively slanderous of |)
tongue; whilst they become so extravagantly inflated H
by self-conceit that they are insufferably offensive, i]
Deeds of meritorious modesty are impossible to such
beings. |)
However, these are only a few exceptions to the j i
general rule; there are hundreds of mediums in [I
private life, under whose modest and becoming ||
reserve the world at large would never suspect the [(
possession of gifts used, unostentatiously, only in the i)
home circle ; or given out of pure philanthropy to the | (
poor and suffering, who have no uleans of paying for H
soul-refection and necessary remedies. I only wish I:
to draw the veil from the self-deceptions of a few j >
who are unable to rise to higher conceptions of the b
duties of mediumship; to whom it is indeed not an j)
aid to self-purification by the subjugation of the lower j;
nature, which it should ever be if employed for its j j
highest purposes, but is merely an earthly pastime !(
cultivated for self-glorification, and the love of dis- |>
tinction in society. They may plume themselves j)
upon the number of converts they have made, count- I /
ing them up as an Indian numbers the scalps hung at j v
his belt, but they never propose to themselves a i /
higher result than this from the cultivation of their K
spiritual gifts. I allude principally to the fashionable ji|
dabblers in mediumship, who can never separate i(
their thoughts from self and the world, and who seem I)
to be incapable of aiming at a high spiritual develop- i (
ment of the inner nature. E. E. B.
Claibvoyance.—Truth of last week contains the following ! /
paragraph about the Duke of Argyll:—“ The Duke, by the way, j (
tells a story of Bloomfield (towards whose memory he is far from ] i
bearing a grudge), which is worth repeating as a specimen of that j)
rare phenomenon, a neat German repartee. It was at a parjiy, |f|
where ’ the guests had been1 amused with experiences of clair- j (
voyance. ‘Well,’ at length exclaimed Bloomfield, puzzled at [j
what he had seen, and unable to explain, ‘ but what, then, were \)
our eyes given us for ? ’ Bunsen, who was present, instantly j}
replied: cTo limit our vision, my Lord.’ The Duke naively owns j(
he did not consider the reason given as exhaustive. It must be j {
remembered he is a Scotchman.” 1
Socrates says:—“Moreover, we may hence conclude that
there is great hope that death is a blessing. For to die is one of N
two things; for either the dead may be annihilated, and we may ||
have no sensation whatever; or, as it is said, tjiere is a certain j (
change and passage of the soul from one place to another. And It
if it is a privation of all sensation, as it were, a sleep in which j \
the sleeper has no dream, death would be a wonderful gain.” ' ’ ])
21
WHAT IS OUR NATURE ?*
BY WILLIAM HITCHMAN, M.R.C.S.
Our bodily nature is but the curtain wdiich hides
our spiritual nature, and this life in the flesh,
when fairly represented, is only the germ from which
life in the spirit shall develop itself, conformably to
the reign of law. Bestricted to the dogmas of
exclusive materialism, or the mere assumptions of
one-sided secularism, we become the slaves of an
execrable idolatry, akin to that of burning our very
hearts alive for Moloch, Baal, and the sun; an
ideology whose system is not even psychological,
since it leaves out of our constitution, as false or
groundless, all those moral, social, intellectual, and
ideal uses of spiritual beauty and true holiness,
which belong to the worship «of God in Christ, and
shine in the life and character of man, or the
divinity of angels higher than mortals. Itecognising
no moral responsibility to a universal spiritual power,
such Nihilists affect to regard the faculties of the
mind and the religion of the heart as modifications
solely of that outward sensation, or visible mould,
which begins in mud and ends in manure. Surely,
it is not possible for death of our natural body to
annihilate a soul and spirit which had not their
origin in gaseous matter, or the life of molecules, in
the jelly of protoplasm. Man is external to the works
of nature, or the forces of the universe, in respect
to the solids, liquids, and gases of chemistry, or
the several constituent elements of physics. God,
as Spirit, by His Divine agencies from worlds unseen,
in form of messengers, angels, and spirits, is internal
to phenomena, operating through them and from
behind them, visibly or invisibly to us according to
conditions, surroundings, and circumstances. Many
are the paradoxes, it seems to me, which result indi¬
rectly from some pre-ordained contingencies—not ex¬
cepting “a lying spirit in the mouth of his prophets”—
or foreseen arrangements, it may be for ulterior
objects, as evinced in the facts of geology, zoology,
and botany; vegetable life, for example, requiring
water for growth and development, yet rain depends
upon totally distinct causes, and quite irrespective of
vegetation. And what is more superficially fortui¬
tous than that vegetable matter should accumulate
in the swamps of past ages, though used for present
important purposes ? What of the myriads of
children, and minute seeds in the centre of flowers,
which, like the young whale's teeth, the pappus or
“ down ” of neuter thistles, the rudimentary pistils
in bisexual plants, or the parasites of man and
animals, cause suffering and death to others, yet never
arrive at maturity themselves ? God’s laws issue in
transformation! Their energy, or force, is pre¬
served and directed into other channels, and
when conditions mutually favour, they are re¬
developed with capacious and abiding power.
Truly the very evolutive forces recognised by
science may, in a religious sense, be the ripest out¬
come of Supreme Will, or differentiations only of one
and the same potency, infused into those creative
molecules—wrhibh are the foundation-stones of things
material—when “the Spirit of God brooded upon
the face pf the waters.” I have adduced the rational
* The concluding portion of a lecture given recently in Woolton mechanics’
Institution.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
22 THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 9, 1880.
evidences of science and religion, adapted for peasant j>
or philosopher, cordially disclaiming sect or partisan- (
ship, with a view mainly, if not entirely, to prove to |)
each impartial hearer that there are mysterious j(
spiritual riches which far outweigh all material pos- |>
sessions, and that the old and new faith of spiritual K
philosophy has every advantage over the ancient and !)
modern teachings of materialistic secularism, without u
one single deprivation or disadvantage that can unfit j)
you and me for service in heart, hand, or intellect; j<
hinder equal success in the battle of life, or operate |>
prejudicially to the best interests of mankind. Those <
four words, “ Enoch walked with God,” to my appre- j;
hension imply an achievement grander and more |(
glorious, incomparably, than is described in any four j)
hundred volumes—from Charlemagne to Beacons- |l
field—concerning such deeds of carnage and cruelty i/
as those of Alexander, Caesar, Wellington, and Napo- K
leon; or that foreign policy of “ Imperium et ])
Libertas” which Britain’s Premier, in 1879, has K
bequeathed to blood-stained Asia and Africa. The j/
verdict of natural science is now pronounced in jj
favour of “other worlds than ours,” and henceforth, j)
therefore, it will be of no ..earthly or heavenly use for K
the enemies of a soul and spirit in our nature to |)
“ refute ” you or to “ refute ” me, in writing or | (
verbally, by literary warfare or set debates in public. P
They must learn to confront those cosmical facts to K
which I have often adverted, and justly controvert 11
them, not by gratuitous opinion or evil-speaking, but j(
by adequate conn ter-facts, or accept that inexorable l)
condemnation which posterity awards to arrogance |>
and conceit. Despite all the competitive “isms” of P
this day, the spiritual exaltation of our fallen race j\
can alone be reflected by that Divine Humanity, j)
incarnate from heaven, whose brightness and beauty js
were embodied in the Prince of Peace, for every age P
and for all time, even as the manifold reflections of j\
the morning sun, when broken into a thousand dew- j)
drops, again sparkle towards itself in the last rose- |\
bud of a dying summer. j)
 ♦  ' j
IDA’S VISION. . ^ :|(
Abridged from last week's “ Truth." p
It is a dull thing for a bright-witted girl to be p
mewed up in a country house in the society of old jc
people who do not care to entertain any but persons j>
of their own age. Ida Coventry’s uncle and aunt ||
had meant kindly by her in adopting her as a j>
daughter; but it so happened that they lived in a j<
lonely part of a slow shire, among neighbours whose p
children were all grown up, married, and settled. K
There was not a marriageable girl or young bachelor ! /
in the district—that is to say, among the gentry—for I (
even the Vicar of Ambledon’s curate was a grey- j>
headed man of fifty, troubled with a wife and a j(
swarm of brats. Poor Ida, who was a pretty girl and P
dearly loved gaiety, dancing, and flirting, felt bored to !X
death at Ambledon Hall; but by far the most miser- |)
able ordeals to which she had to submit were the i(
dinners which Sir Bevil, her uncle, gave several times }>
a month to divers of his brother magistrates and lit
their wives. At these dreary banquets the gentlemen j j
talked politics, and the ladies prosed on all topics K
except those which could interest Ida.
The poor girl, in fact, pined for some sympathetic
face and voice; therefore it was a positive relief to
her when, one evening, coming down to the dining¬
room she perceived a guest whose features, de¬
meanour, and general bearing differed altogether
from those of Sir Bevil’s ordinary friends. He was
a young man of about twenty-five; tall, strong, fair¬
haired, with a light golden beard, and large, soft blue
eyes. His head was that of an artist or a poet, whilst
his gait and manner were those of a perfect gentle¬
man, devoid of any vulgarity or tendency to self-
assertion. He was scrupulously well dressed, in
clothes that must have been cut by a first-rate tailor;
and such jewellery as he had about him—studs, ring,
&c.—denoted a man in easy circumstances.
She expected that her uncle would at once intro¬
duce him by name; but, somewhat to her surprise,
the stranger, having bowed to her when she entered,
sat down to examine some photographic albums, and
nobody paid any attention to him. There was some¬
thing so marked in his isolation, that Ida fell to
wondering who he could possibly be.
Not only did the company abstain from all inter¬
course with him, but he was not asked the common
questions which are‘essential at a dinner-table. The
servants filled his glasses and set successive plates
before him without inquiring whether he would
prefer this dish to that, or one wine to the other.
Sir Bevil and Lady Coventry never once showed, by
word or sign, that they recognised his presence. So
much discourtesy disgusted Ida, who at last resolved
to be very brave and to address the stranger herself.
She reddened, and had to cough a little before she
could say audibly across the table : “ DonT you think
our country lanes look very well with this winter’s
frost on their hedges ?
The stranger smiled acquiescence and bowed, but
he returned no verbal answer. There was a moment’s
awkward pause, and the conversation which Ida had
meant to start perforce dropped.
“ Dear me, can the poor man be deaf and dumb ? ”
reflected Ida, and her heart sank.
Anyhow, there he sat silent, Ida’s heart filling
with pity for him, and he did not look at her again
till towards the close of dessert, just before the ladies
left the room, when he raised his eyes and bent them
on her with a sudden expression so shocking that it
made her grow chilly all over. Up to then the
stranger’s features had been placid ; but now they
seemed convulsed with an agony of pain and fear.
Gazing at Ida with an appealing earnestness quite
horrible in its intensity, the stranger turned his eyes
and nodded his head towards Sir Bevil, just as if to
intimate that he stood in mortal dread of him. Then
he put a forefinger to his lips, as though to enjoin
silence. Petrified with astonishment and terror, Ida
could only stare, half-doubting the evidence of her
senses.
The next morning Ida was alone at breakfast with
her uncle and aunt. She had hardly sat down, and
was about to lead the way to the question she had
determined to put, when she perceived the stranger
standing in morning costume on the terrace outside
the dining-room, and staring at her through the
window. Once again he pointed to Sir Bevil, but
this time with his finger, and, flattening his face
23
JAN. 9, 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST.
against the pane, gazed at Ida with all his soul, and
opened his mouth as if he were going to scream
rather than to speak. Ida started from her chair
trembling in every limb.
“ Uncle, who is that man ?” she asked, motioning
towards the window, but recoiling from it.
The stranger had walked off by this time and was
out of sight.
“ What man ?” asked Sir Bevil, astonished.
“ Why, the gentleman with fair hair and blue eyes
who dined here last night—the gentleman to whom
nobody spoke. I wondered whether he was not deaf
and dumb. He was there a moment ago looking
through the window.”
“ There was no gentleman except those whom you
have often seen here before,” said Sir Bevil; and he
named four neighbouring squires. “But none of
those corresponds with your description of this
stranger.”
“ Well, then, my senses must be leaving me,” j
ejaculated Ida, shuddering; and she buried her head
in her hands. She had heard of dementia in its
many forms, and supposed that some hideous mono- !
maniacal idea must suddenly have possessed her.
A month elapsed. One morning Sir Bevil, ex- j
pecting to receive the visit of his solicitor, who was j
coming from London on business, closeted himself in j
his study with a box of deeds and family papers. ]
Ida, not knowing that he had given orders to be left j
alone, entered the room unawares to carry him. a j
message, and there saw him seated side by side at his j
table with the Stranger.
The stranger’s chair was close to Sir Bevil’s, but a J
little behind it, and he seemed to be examining over j
the baronet’s shoulder a miniature portrait on enamel, j
at which the latter was himself staring in an |
abstracted contemplation. On seeing Ida, Sir Bevil |
hastily rose, and endeavoured to hide the portrait j
away; but it fell from his unsteady hand, and rolled j
on to the door. |
Ida picked it up. “ Great heavens! % she ex- j
claimed, whilst her knees shook from fear. “ This is i
the portrait of that gentleman in the chair behind !
y°u' . . . !
“What gentleman?” faltered Sir Bevil, turning |
deadly pale. “ Give me that portrait, Ida. Why— j
I see nobody in that chair.” j
“ Look ! ” cried Ida, retreating, as her eyes opened j
wide with horror, “ Look at him, uncle ! Oh, what j
does he mean ? Why does he point at you so ? ”
“Good God!” exclaimed Sir Bevil. He had |
turned, too, and to all appearance caught sight of 1
that unearthly face, which had now assumed an j<
expression of implacable menace, for, covering his I
eyes with his hands, he tottered forward, and fell M
heavily to the ground with his head on the fender. 0
The stranger had vanished. Ida found herself j(
alone in the room with the body of Sir Bevil, who j)
was dead. j \
^ ^ : N
The affair was hushed up, and it was said that Sir j(
Bevil had died from a stroke of apoplexy ; but from 0
the family solicitor, who overhauled the family papers, K
Ida heard waifs of a dismal story about a young j)
cousin of hers who had been heir to the title and
estates of Sir Bevil before the latter had inherited 0
them. That cousin had been found dead at the
bottom of a stone quarry. Had he been pushed into
it ? Had he fallen into it by accident ? Ida never
sought to fathom the dreadful mystery. It was
enough for her that she had seen in a vision, clear as
day, the original of that portrait which Sir Bevil had
held in his hand just one moment before he had been
summoned abruptly to give his life’s accounts in the
world where there are no secrets.
WHAT VICTOR HUGO SAYS OF SPIRITUALISM.
Victor Hugo is quoted by Jesupret, in the Revue
Spirite, as saying:—
Table-turning and speaking has been sufficiently
jeered at. Let us speak plainly: this raillery is with¬
out support; to displace investigation by mockery is
easy, but hardly scientific. As for us, we deem that
the strict duty of science is to sound all the
phenomena; science is ignorant, and has not the
right to ridicule; a scientific man who sneers at the
impossible is not far from being an idiot. The
unlooked-for should always be expected by science.
Its function is to grasp it on its way and search it
thoroughly, rejecting the chimerical, and establishing
the real; the sole right of science over these facts
is to endorse them with its visa. It ought to verify
and classify them. All human, knowledge is but
(triage) winnowings. The false complicating the
true does not excuse the rejection of the whole.
Since when has the presence of tares been a pre¬
text for refusing the wheat ? Weed out the devil
herb error, but reap the fact and bind it with
others. Science is the sheaf of facts. The mission
of science is to study all things, and to fathom all
things. All of us, whoever we may be, are the
creditors of examination; we are, therefore, its
debtors. It is due to us, and due from us, to study a
phenomenon. To refuse the payment to it of that
attention to which it has a right, to deny it, to put it
! to the door, and turn from it in scorn, this is to
{ become a bankrupt to truth, this is to leave
unhonoured the signature of science. The phe-
| nomenon of the ancient tripod and the modern table
has a right equally to any other to observation.
| Psychological science there will gain without any
I doubt. Let me add this, that to abandon the phe-
i nomena to credulity is to commit a treason to human
| reason.
Nevertheless, we see the phenomenon always
| rejected, and always reappearing. It dates not its
! advent from yesterday.
During Mrs. Hollis-Billing’s residence in Paris,
Victor Hugo was a frequent visitor at her stances.
Piuver.—The office of prayer is to put the individual in con¬
currence with the universal; to enable the person, the separate
man or woman, to become receptive of those awful powers that
are ready to shelter him and to bear him on triumphantly. It is
a necessity with every one who wishes to live a great life, with
every one who wishes for happiness, power, success, in any high
I measure, that he should have faith, vital faith in this unusual
j capacity, in these universal laws, in the realm of ideas, in the
universe of principles. It is not necessary that he should confess
his faith in words. He need not insist on being technically a
; religious man.—Frothingham.
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By Che late 'Wir. Gregory, M.D., F.B.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free
CONTENTS
CHAPTEft I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sehsdtions—Process I)
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Soon- \
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness ! (
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain. ! (
. OHABTEB IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in j \
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture— i \
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti- I <
bllity—Sleep Caused bjr Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards ! (
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep. j1
OHAPTEB III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions— j)
Dinger of Bash Experiments—Public Exhibitions ot Doubtful Advantage— i \
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Beading—Sources of Error;—Medical i (
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of I (
a Peculiar Force or influence. i (
CHAPTEB IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes— | s
Vision of Neir Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and I i
Clairvoyance in Begard to Absent Persons—Betroyisidn—Inttovision. i (
CHAPTEB V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &e., Predicted—Pre- 1/
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents ;)
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of j)
It-p-SpontaUepus Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of i \
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain. i (
CHAPTEB VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and i \
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions ip the Conscious ;)
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method i\
and its Besults—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator— i <
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of I <
Perseverance—The Subject mflst be Studibd. I?
CHAPTEB VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro- j \
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend.—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not I \
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s | (
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World. j (
,, OHAPTEB VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of is
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions— j \
Sympathy—Thfere are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do j \
not Act—^Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism i (
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele- 1 (
graph Founded on It. j f
, CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets,-. Crystal^, &c., on the Human Frame— i y
Researches of Beichenbach—His Ddyle is-Identical With the Mesmeric Fluid Of | (
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic i (
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water i
■ - Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. — j /
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes- |)
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking j \
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds. K
CHAPTEB X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or. Suggested !)
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the j)
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the I >
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought- i)
Beading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by j)
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c., I (
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the \ (
Future. j (
CHAPTEB XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits I)
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments— i \
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Sbtious Thing—Cautions to the Student— K
Opposition to be Expected I (
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State— i >
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr, Lewis’s Experi- ; S
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darlihg’s Experiments— j \
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen- j (
t ration—Major Buckley’s Method—Ca^es—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking ; f
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian ! /
Magic. |)
CHAPTEB XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of i\
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author. Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep— i (
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep i /
•—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—^Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep— j /
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of j)
Betrovisibn. i)
.CHAPTER XIV:—Uirect Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance— 11
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases— j(
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases. ; /
CHAPTEB XV:—Trance—Extasis —Cases —Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe- :)
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions } (
OHAPTEB XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks j)
and Summary. 11
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office S3, British Museum-street, London, i (
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and G-alileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Scieifi/::, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of .Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollneir, ahd a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions Of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with'no stranger present, and without deception
by any xilemfeer of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modem Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the. phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
Which cOst ndthiiig, thus showing how egregioUsly those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instirtic-
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
A Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. Tfie first symptom Of the invisible power at work is Often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
* letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious ahd philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
\Yeek; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Jan. 9, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ill
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestlohs and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place ana use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and.that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains ah
original position, If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; b,ut
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
.answers ,Nq. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of. sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the. everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Aiifflr, li, Ave Maria-lane, E.C;
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges
SRiRITUALlSM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,-
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
. This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
arid a close criticisih of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall abottt Spiritualism.
“Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.’’—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist, Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, ,f>S. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
. YABIEtIeS,—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d.; or six copies post free for 6d.
R' APHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN¬
GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’sis the oldpst and best Astrological
Almanac how published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, arid all the principal eVefits
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, Yd.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. CATiif, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.O.
British national associa
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, BlooiflSbUry. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For termp,
information as to stances, Sea., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
Jl . is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments .can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included; j£3 per week each; Or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address,.“S. C.,’’ care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world ! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Mohtgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby; editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class; eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns Of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual, lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price3s. 6d. Imperial 8vd Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RlETS IN THE VEIL.’’
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful booh to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),” arid is orie of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy Of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.’’ . Given
through the tfance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef.. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IY.—Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-iriediumshlp of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richinond.
VI. —Arigel-Gurirded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret:, A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Matgery Miller. Given throtigh the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie DOten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres Of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —TO You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat,
X VIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Gribf for the Departed.
XX. —The BrOWri Lady of Rainhahi By Lucia 0.
Stone.,
: XXL—A Vision of Death. By Cardline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story Of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
,• XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies; D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe;
XXV. —De PrOfundiS. By Anna Bla.bkwell..
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. StSi., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital. ,
• XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXfnr.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given throtigh the mediumship of
M.A., Oxon.”
I XXIX.—A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. O.
Maurice Datids, D.D.
XXX.—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
. XXXl.—The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
, XXXII.—The TOUch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death, By Caroline A. Burkb,
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the meditim-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Ilarrlsoh.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthing ton
(Ehhesfalien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs ih India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
Of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislinghufy.
, XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harii-
soh.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI,—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams., By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spirituahsm. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G,S.
I XLV,—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
, - The Spiritualist Newspaper. Branch Office 33, British
MUSeum-street London, W.C
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. ClOth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
. Cqj responding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion Of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
by epes Sargent
CONTENTS;
Chapter. I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J, Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D.D.Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forins,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Eriierson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., rind Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billingr—Katie King—John King. ;i
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England-!—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit-
riesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Forbe.
t Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are (hero Two
Substances? — Immateriality — Ancient, Belief ip
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer —r Sw.edenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall — W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. G. F. Vrirley, Mr. Wm.
Ctookes, Mr. W, H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxinore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. O. Rrihe', Mr. R. Drile Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby,
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev; S. Watson, and
Rey. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
arid Omainerits.
Chapter XII,—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIlI.—Unity of Forces and Phehomeria.
, Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, arid Buchner—Design in. Nature-
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune. ,
Chapter XVL—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman— Kant—Strauss—Leon, Case-r-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — Ttie
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstuhbe—James Marlineau—
Voysey—Seritinient must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Rhotqgraphs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Iriferenbes—Concluding Reflections;
• The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.G.
Price 5s. 6d;
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THfc INNER LIFE;”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I,
I.—The Prayer bf the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. Trie Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd rifl'd Garda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII, Hope
for .the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV:, The
Erigie . of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Hbrii’e—XIX, “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXL Love—XXlI. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer-XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophe’cy of
Vala—XXVI; The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore-XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
T>EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JAi psychologiques, fonde par Allan. Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. , Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyhie, 5, Rue Neuye des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1880.
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
Christmas Pudding,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the "World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Kipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FEUIT SALT.—From the
Eev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
Stimulants and insufficient
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SaLT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
i he Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S EMIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
J_jL FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
"T71AGGED, WEARY, AND WORN
Jl OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.’’—M.
Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
‘‘SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
IO vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked ''ENO’S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
TESTIMONIAL for Dr. MONCK.
APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
Dear Friends,
Fully sensible that too many appeals have been
made on behalf of Mediums, we feel that Dr. Monck’s
case presents one for a special claim upon the gene¬
rosity of Spiritualists.
As one of the Pioneers of our belief, he has not only
spent his private means, but also his very life; for in
furthering research by means of the marvellous
materialisations in the light through his mediumship,
his health, already exhausted by bitter persecution,
has completely given way.
For nearly two years he has been cared for by kind
friends, but it is now his desire to return to the work
so dear to him as soon as his health permits, and
especially is it his wish to work as an unpaid
medium, to do which some temporary help is now
needed.
The undersigned earnestly appeal to all Spiritualists
to assist Dr. Monck in his present necessity, and to
subscribe liberally to the Testimonial now under their
care.
One friend has offered to give £20 if £80 more is
subscribed in sums of £10 and £5 each. We think this
challenge should be accepted, but we hope small sums
will not be withheld.
W. P. Adshead, Belper.
Dr. Brown, Burnley.
James Burns, Southampton-row.
Alexander Oalder, l, Hereford-square, S.W.
Prof. R. Friesh, Breslau.
A. J. Oranstoun, Meggen, Lucerne.
J. H. Gledstanes, Merignac.
Baron Dirckinck Holmfeld, Holstein.
Sir 0. Isham, Bart., Northampton.
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Kilburn.
Wm. Oxley, Manchester.
E. Dawson Rogers, Finchley.
Morbll Theobald, Hon. Sec.
J. Pemberton Turner, Leamington.
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston.
Hbnsleigh Wedgwood, J.P., Queen Anne-street.
All remittances should be sent to
Morell Theobald.
62, Granville-park, Blackheath.
Subscriptions already received.
£ s. d.
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun, Lucerne   10 0 0
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston   10 0 0
W. P. Adshead, Esq., Belper   * 550
William Tebb, Esq., Albert-road  5 5 0
H.R.H. Prince G   5 0 0
Alexander Oalder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square 5 0 0
Dr. J. Dixon, Great Ormond-street  5 0 0
F. G. S., per A. Calder, Esq   2 2 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart   2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P   2 2 0
J. Pemberton Turner, Esq   ;... 2 2 0
Morell Theobald, Esq  2 2 0
F. Myers, Esq  2 0 0
Two Friends    2 0 0
Dr. Brown, Burnley   110
Wm. Oxley, Esq.         110
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A  1 1 0
Mrs. Stone, Shute Haye  110
J. B. Stones, Esq.        110
Dr. Stowell, Brighton   110
James Bowman, Glasgow     10 0
Miss Douglas, South Audley-street  10 0
R. Gessler, Basle    10 0
A Friend, per R. Gessler   10 0
Joseph Swinburne, Esq   10 0
A. Tod, Peebles      10 0
Rev. W. Miall, Hackney   10 0
Miss Ottley, Belgravia     10 0
Dr. Wyld    10 0
John A. Hoover, Philadelphia     0 5 0
A. P., Edinburgh     0 10 0
W. R. Tomlinson    0 10 0
T. Farrell     0 10 0
J. Thompson    0 10 0
Small Sums      1 13 0
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mens. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
January, 1880.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Spiritualism in some of its Religious Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Curious
Reasoning of a "Master in Israel” : A. M. H. W.—
Spiritualism and Positivism in Relation to Problems
of Govemm ent: G. F. Green—Spiritualism in China :
Dr. Nicholls—Spiritual Evolution: M.A. (Oxon)—
Popular Errors and Objections to Spiritualism Ex¬
plained and Answered: J. S. Farmer—William Lloyd
Garrison and the Rev. Odin Ballou: T. S.—Notes and
Gleanings: Examine Yourselves; California Changes;
Spiritualism Capturing the Church ; Opponents Over¬
come ; “ What is our Nature?’’ The Uses of Spirit¬
ualism.—A Christmas Carol: J. T. Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW Hay Nisbet & Co. 52 Ropework-lane.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." . s.- d
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia .76
The Teacher. „ II. » • .76
The Seer. „ III. „ ' ., .76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, ..76
The Thinker. „ V. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest... . . .76
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . ..76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . *.3 6
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims •* . 2 6
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology .30
Morning Lectures . . ■ . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager
Southampton- uildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Hlustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
CONTENTS.
The Psychological Effects of Breathing Nitrous
Oxide      13
Correspondence:—The New Tear: A Greeting—
A Stance in Newcastle    15
Apparitions and Haunted Houses  16
Thq Doctrines of Total Depravity and Eternal
Punishment ;    18
Professor Zbllner’s Experiments   18
Psychic Action from a Distance   18
Spirit Guardianship. By Isabel Burton   19
Spirit Hands. By T. L. Nicholls, M.D  19
The Elders and the Child     19
Experiences among Mediums   20
What is our Nature ? By William Hitchman,
M.R.C.S.        21
Ida’s Vision      21
What Victor Hugo says of Spiritualism  2S
Paragraphs:—Clairvoyance, 21; Prayer ............ 23
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-aboye-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London
E.C
