Begistered as a Newspaper.
&\}t #ltai; x’^mAb' tox^ S^xtxtxrdxsm m (&xmt §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on'Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule.
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 330. (Vol. XIII.—No. 25.) LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontenta.
Spiritualism and Christianity   ”,   289
Well-Proved Clairvoyance:—The Case of Miss Fancher,
_ of {Brooklyn—Physiological Symptoms—The Nervous
System Deranged—Sight, Hearing, Speech, and Con¬
sciousness Lost and Restored—Life Without Nourish¬
ment—Life Without Food—The Body Cold as though
in Death—Powers of Second Sight—Sealed Letters
Deciphered—Distant Friends Seen and their Sur¬
roundings Described—Works of Art Fashioned by a
Blind Girl—Her Appearance while in Trance—The
Effect of Excitement—Blind, yet Able to Discriminate
Colours—Marvels in Wax-Work—Watching her Dis¬
tant Friends—Her Sight not Omnipresent—The Mind
Freed from the Bondage of the Body—Severe Tests of
Clairvoyance     ...     289
“ Spirit Drapery." ByO.O. Massey  ... 294
“ The Intelligent Operator at the Other End of the Line."
By W. Stainton-Moses, M.A 295
PoetrySweet Advent Bells. By J. T. Markley 298
Correspondence :—Dr. Monck—The Development of
Spiritual Phenomena—The Body and Soul—Physical
and Spiritual Growth—Physical Manifestations—Psy¬
chographic Pictures    ...    298
Spiritual Triads. (Poetry.) 800
Paragraphs:—Sunday Services at Notting-hill, 294; The
Southampton Philosophical and Musical Society, 294 ;
Spiritualism in Dalston, 295; British Museum Lectures 800
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER;
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
BSTABLISHBD IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, O.E, F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wlttgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrlster-at-Law; Mr. George O. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrlster-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D.JEdin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon,M.B. (India);
Mrs. fionywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author oi
the Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London; Mr. S. O.
Hall, F.8:A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States); Mr. W. Llndesay
Richardson.'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United.Kingdom, XOs. I0d.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 87, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Festh: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 28, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 819,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOfflce, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS
At the Offices of the Association.—On and after the 30th
December, 1878, the offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be
open between the hours of 2 p.m. and 9.80 p.m. only, on all
week-days, except Saturday, when they will be open between
the hours Of 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETING.
The usual Fortnightly Meeting will be omitted on Jan. 6th.
On Monday, Jan. 20th, a paper will_be read by Mr. W, H.
Harrison, entitled “ Hauntings.
On Tuesday, Jan. 4th, the ordinary Council Meeting will be
held at 6.30 p.m., preceded by the sitting of the Finance Com¬
mittee at 6 p.m.
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE
Holds its sittings every Friday, at 6.30 p.m., unless adjourned
by order of the chairman, or by vote of the committee at its
previous meeting. E. Kislingbuby, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
BRITISH MUSEUM LECTURES.—A
Course of Three Lectures (with the permission of the
authorities) will be given by C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, Westminster
Hospital, on Jan. 4, Jan. 7, and Jan. 11. Hours 11 to 1. Tickets
5s. each. Address C. Carter Blake, care of 38, Great Russell-
street, W.C.
IADBROKE HALL, LADBROKE
J GROVE ROAD, NOTTING HILL, W. (Not Netting
Hill Gate).
A SERIES OF SUNDAY SERVICES for the dissemination
of the Gospel of Spiritual Truth are in course of delivery in
the above Hall, by W. H. LAMBELLE, who will deliver a
course of addresses on the “ ORIGIN OF RELIGIOUS RITES
AND CEREMONIES."
Doors open at 6.80 and closed at 7 promptly, to prevent
interruption during the progress of the Services.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following engagements:—Perry Barr Institute,
December 3,1878; New Swindon Mechanics’ Institute, January
8,1879. Coalbrookdale Literary Institute, January 21 (Second
time this season). Hastings, Gensing Hall, Afternoon and
Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial Society, February
4. Leamington Institute, February 25. Croydon Literary
Institution, March 6 (2nd time). Favourable terms arranged
with Institutes en route. For particulars address Mr. Frank
Dietz, 54, Denbigh Street, London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland
Street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
January 15th, 1879, February 12th, March 12th, April 9th, May
14th, June 11th. Tickets for the Series One Guinea each.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Invites your attention to a series of Inspirational Addresses on
the Religion of Spiritualism, which he will commence Sun¬
day, January 5th, at the
CAVENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMER ’STREET, W.
The lecture will begin at 7.30; doors closed at 7.45. Ad¬
mission free. No collection taken.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-bulldings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs, Weldon,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the Investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1868). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Nov. 4.—Mr. Bonwlck, F.R.G.S., “ Soul Ideas amongst the
Ancient Egyptian a.’’
Nov. 18.—Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, “ Experiences In the Home Circle,
No. 1.”
Dec. 2.—Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., “ Spiritualism in
Eastern Lands.”
Dec. 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ The inteUigent Operator
at the other end of the Line."
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings.”
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Dr, Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld. “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2."
April 7.—Dr. Bloede, “ Psychometry." -
April 21.—Mr. O. C. Massey, “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session."
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & 00.
Show Rooms:—8, Led gate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged bistory of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, <fcc., <fec.
post free, seven stamps.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERTSfor 1879, containing predictions c f
events and the weather for every month, <fcc., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.O,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 20, 1878
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Caider, Esq., l, Ilereford-sqnare, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Oharles, Pavkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-OeraW, Mrs , 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G-> M.g.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdongall, 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
ings, rj.u.
Massey, C. O., Bawister-at-Law, Haucourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Chusch-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
read, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.!
Binney, F. A.. 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.
Chapman, ,Tohn. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.-
Dawe, N. Fabyan, />, Porfman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton. Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfield, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71. Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, .T. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stafnton, M.A., University College, NW.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, 'Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-sireet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. O., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Mornington-road, Regent’s-park.
Strawhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Rtrawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville-park, Blackheatb, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen. R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, SW.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. IT., M. A„ LL.M., care of A. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, SW.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj6 Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folgtiera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S. A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq ., Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr.’ Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland. C
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq.,M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
. U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourierea, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. litora^ Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Bey, Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq;, 9 ,Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre.Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxel’es.
Licut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test,Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co..New York,U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., II. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
‘ Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epp'jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq;,-53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Procbaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23, ,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Coniforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. Gd. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
inspirational Poetry.
‘‘POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state oj trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—H. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation,—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glen are.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV. Reeurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. Cd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d,, paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61,- LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o'clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
|D W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
JQi* engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. Gd. Address, Miss Ross ,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 jears
established), attends Patients and maybe consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Oampden-hiil,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
MADAME ZACHRAU, the great American
Natural Clairvoyant and Phrenologist. Consultations
from 10 till G, at 25, Granville-square, King's-cross-road,
London, W.O.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
JTjl. ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. Gd. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
QPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
lO description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. ■ E. Newman, II, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfoftable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, hoard and all included, £3 per week
each; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M, A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie, Paris,
jL suit p}& tl P^ffal&h
Ko. 330,—VojLujvie Thirteen; Number Twenty-Five.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 20th, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM AND CHRISTIANITY. j
Sometimes, although not often, attacks upon some of the i
leading dogmas of Christianity are sent to us for publication, j
The writers should bear in mind that the better way to !
advance truth is to set forth the merits of their own religious j j
ideas, rather than to make an attack upon the sincere con- i j
victions of their neighbours. All Spiritualists probably are j <
agreed that the life of Christ is a pattern which men may j j
imitate with advantage, but difference of opinion creeps I
into our ranks, when dogmas which He never taught fi
are put forward as authoritative. Nevertheless, a man is j!
never convinced by means of a rude onslaught upon j
his household gods, and it should be borne in mind that
in England the most violent attacks upon Spiritualism have
been made by the priests of Science, not by the priests of
Christianity. The Christian World newspaper put before
its readers, at very great length4 some of the main truths of j
Spiritualism, and without a single word of abuse; no orthodox
scientific newspaper has done the same. Some of the
ministers of the Church of England have begun to put forward
the merits of Spiritualism from their pulpits, and to lay
more stress upon leading good lives than upon believing in
eternal punishment and other incomprehensible doctrines ;
their churches are consequently more or less well
attended by Spiritualists. Seeing that such a friendly
spirit exists, no good is done by stirring up strife by unpro-
vokedly attacking the cherished convictions of our neighbours,
who in the genial atmosphere of the revelations of Spiritualism
will discover some of their hardest stones of unprofitable j
dogma slowly melting from their grasp. The newspapers all j
round have now been fairly silenced in the matter of abuse of j
the growing power of Spiritualism, and there is every sign that
during the coming season in London, Spiritualism will widen
its borders with a rapidity and popularity hitherto unknown.
With this prospect in the future, silence had better be kept
about differences of opinion on theological doctrines.
WELL PROVED CLAIRVOYANCE.
Mr. W. M. Wilkinson, of Lincoln’s Inn-fields, London,
has received the following letter from Mr. F. T. Parson,
M.D., of New York:—
300, Gates-avenue, Brooklyn, Dec. 1,1878.
My Dear Mr. Wilkinson,—You will perhaps remember
my conversation with you in reference to Miss Fancher, in
connection with the similar case of the u Welsh fasting girl.”
I have mailed you a copy of the New York Sun, which gives
the first authentic statement of this remarkable young lady.
I have known her for thirteen years, and for the last seven
years very intimately, and can vouch for the circumstantial
truthfulness of the entire statement, and could readily supple¬
ment it with series of similar incidents coming under the |
observation of myself and other members of my family. She I
is a beautiful character, and we all value her friendship very
highly. Shrinking as she does from publicity, this has
been a great trial to her, as she is a lady of the finest j
instincts and exquisite tastes.
I thought you would, like to see this: it has been my
intention to write you fully some time about the case. This
account will suffice admirably, as it is prepared by a family j
friend in answer to, and to take the place of several garbled j
and incorrect statements which have recently appeared.
This poor girl has been the subject of brutal comment by
some doctors.—I am, yours sincerely,
F. T. Parson.
The above letter shows that the report in The New York j
Sun is an authorised and authentic description of the details j
of the case, so we proceed to quote it in full:— \\
THE CASE OF MISS FANCHER OF BROOKLYN.
In Downing-street, Brooklyn, has lain for thirteen years
Miss Mary J. Fancher, much of the time in a trance-like
condition, with feeble heart pulsations, sluggish and almost
imperceptible respiration, and the chill of death upon her
flesh. At times she has been transformed into a cheerful,
vivacious, intelligent, entertaining young woman, and then she
has relapsed into speechlessness, blindness, deafness, and
entire paralysis of the senses. She has developed most
astonishing powers, resembling second sight or clairvoyance,
reading with ease the contents of sealed letters, describing
articles in hidden packages, perusing books while absolutely
blind. Sometimes her powers are voluntary, at other times
| they are unconsciously exercised. So little nourishment has
j she taken that it may be said she lives without food. She is
| surrounded by persons of social standing and refinement, and
[ has always been exceedingly sensitive to any public mention
j or knowledge of her condition. She has ever repelled any
| effort to couple her manifestations with those of clairvoyants,
| has begged to be allowed to live and die in the retirement of
I her home, unmolested by strangers, and accessible only to
j her friends. Clergymen, physicians, men of letters and of
; | intelligence have visited her. Among many who have taken
i | a special interest in her are the Rev. Dr. Joseph T. Duryea,
! I pastor of the Classon Avenue Presbyterian Church ; the Rev.
II Dr. Henry J. Yan Dyck, pastor of the Clinton-street Presby-
11 terian Church; Prof. Charles E. West, principal of the
! | Brooklyn Heights Seminary; George W. Benson, Henry M.
11 Parkhurst, the astronomer ; James B. Smith, the well-known
) | architect; the Rev. Mr. Moore, former pastor of the Wash-
‘ | ington Avenue (Brooklyn) Baptist Church, but now of
| Geneva, N.Y.; the Rev Dr. Prime, editor of the New York
! Observer; Dr. R. Fleet Speir, of 162, Montague-street; Dr.
j Robert Ormiston, of 74, Hanson-place; Dr. Mitchell, of
| 129, Montague-street; Dr. Kissam, of 100, Joralemon-
| street; and Dr. Crane, of 163, Clinton-street. Of these
gentlemen, Messrs. Speir, West, and Parkhurst have made
voluminous memoranda of Miss Fancher’s physical and
mental changes and conditions. Miss Fancher herself has
written at great length descriptions of her feelings and
sensations.
] PHYSIOLOGICAL SYMPTOMS.—THE NERVOUS"SYSTEM DERANGED—SIGHT, HEARING,
| SPEECH, AND CONSCIOUSNESS LOST AND RESTORED—LIFE WITHOUT NOURISH-
| MENT.
At the age of fourteen years Mary J. Fancher was sent
i to the Brooklyn Heights Seminary, in Montague-street, and
| there she remained for four years. She had not vigorous
| health, yet she was faithful to every duty, and was a close
| student. One of her instructors says that rarely has he seen
I a brighter or more interesting Miss. Her father had means
| to gratify her youthful inclinations. She obtained an excel-
! i lent education, and at the age of eighteen years was ready
; j to graduate. About that time in a horseback ride she fell,
' | and several of her ribs were broken. From the injury she
! j quickly recovered, only to meet with another and a more
II serious accident. As she was alighting from a horse-car
i j the conductor, thinking she had stepped to the ground, rang
11 the signal to start, and, turning from her, walked to the
[j front of the car. Miss Fancher’s dress caught on the step,
i] and the starting of the vehicle threw her with violence to
J1 the pavement. She was dragged a long distance before her
j! situation was perceived. Her spine was seriously injured
11 and her body and head frightfully bruised. In a short time
J i she went into convulsions. She was carried to the residence
j | of her aunt, Mrs. Crosby, in Downing-street, and put into
>! the bed, whence she has never been removed since, save for a
| few minutes at a time.,
j This was early in 1865. Very soon after the accident she
H underwent most astonishing physical changes. Her nervous
290
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 20, 1878.
system was uncontrollable whenever she was in any manner
excited, while she was absolutely paralysed at other times.
In succession she was bereft of vision, speech, and hearing.
From violent spasms she drifted into a trance-like state,
from which it required the unremitting efforts of physicians
and friends to arouse her. At the expiration of twenty days
her faculties were all restored. For half an hour she saw,
articulated, and listened. Then these three senses deserted
her again, and within ten more days her fingers became
clenched, her jaws locked, her limbs twisted. Spasms were
thereafter more frequent and violent.
LIFE WITHOUT FOOD.
The days slipped away into weeks before she was able to
keep any food on her stomach, and it was just short of two
months that she was without nourishment. Then very light
food was one day given her with seemingly beneficial results.
She has eaten altogether since that day—nearly thirteen
years ago—not so much food in the aggregate as an
ordinarily healthful girl of her age would eat in forty-eight
hours.
Three months and a half after the accident she went into
a rigid trance for twenty-one hours, and then passed into a
relaxed trance that lasted for three days. Her throat became
paralysed, and she could neither swallow nor utter a sound.
Her right arm doubled up back of her head and became
fixed there with the rigidity of death. A year later this
condition was followed by absolute rigidity of body, with the
exception of the left arm and hand, which she was able to
use. This latter condition lasted for nine years, in all of
which time she was continually drifting into and out of
trances. She continued to be blind, the pupil of the eyes
being rolled upward, and the whites only visible when the
lids were parted for examination. Very tightly indeed were
the lids sealed, and with difficulty were they opened. She
had the power of speech however, almost all of the time,
although it left her at intervals.
Three years ago the rigidity of her body relaxed and sight
and hearing were restored. Memory of everything that had
happened in the nine years disappeared. She could not
recognise friends whose acquaintance had been made in that
period. Her thoughts went back to events that were happen¬
ing when she sank into the nine years’stupor, and she began to
talk of them as though they had occurred an hour before.
In all the nine years she had been in a semi-unconscious
condition, possessed, however, at times of astonishing mental
vigour and of mechanical ingenuity. She refused food when
otfered to her, saying it made her sick. Dr. Speir and Dr.
Ormiston forced food into her stomach with the pump, and,
after paralysis of the throat came on, tried to feed her through
a silver tube inserted in the neck. Food sickened her, how¬
ever, and, eventually, all efforts to induce her to take nourish¬
ment were abandoned. At long intervals she expressed a
wish for the juice of some fruit or for a bit of candy, but she
rejected solid matter, and for weeks and months, according
to her own assertion and that of her attendants, she
swallowed nothing. Her physical condition was con¬
stantly changing. One day she was without sense
except. touch; the next she could hear, and taste, and
talk. But her eyes did not open until the end of the nine
years.
THE BODT COLD AS THOUGH IN DEATH.
At intervals during these nine years the body frequently
became as cold as though in death, no warmth being
detected except in the region of the heart. That organ kept
up a slow, measured pulsation, except when she went into
trances; then its beating was often imperceptible. Her head
and shoulders retained their normal condition, but soon after
each of these attacks, her legs would be drawn up and con¬
torted, her feet contracted. At the same time, to quote the
language of her physicians, “ her intestines shrivelled and
wasted away, leaving little more than a coating of skin over
the back bone in the cavity they had occupied. They became
almost entirely inoperative, and for years were completely so.”
She was so sensitive to heat in the nine years’ period of
rigidity that fire was not lighted in her room, nor was the
temperature raised in any manner. In midwinter her only
covering was a single sheet, and the window was kept partly
open. In all these years her right arm remained bent
5 I behind her head, and when relaxation returned at the end of
1 | that period, the member was not released from its tension,
! 11 as was the rest of the body. The arm remains still in the
I; same cramped position.
For the last three years her physical changes have been
| frequent and painful. She has been afflicted with many
| disorders and diseases, and has successively lost and re-
| gained several of the senses. That of sight, which returned
| with relaxation, continued until the early part of last July,
| and then her eyelids closed again. While she did see, how-
j ever, her eyeballs were fixed and staring. From the first
| she has not slept, except while in a trance. Several times
| in the earlier years it was thought she was dead, so cold had
| her body become, so rigid her limbs and flesh, so motionless
| her lungs and heart. But vigorous rubbing with stimulating
I liquors, and persistent attention, brought her again to con-
j sciousness. While in the nine years of rigidity she suffered
| intensely from neuralgic pains. These the physicians became
j convinced were increased by the bad condition of her teeth,
| that suddenly had begun to decay. A dentist was sum¬
moned to extract them, but the jaws were so locked that it
] j was not until chloroform was administered that her mouth
|11 could be opened. Then every tooth was removed. On re-
II j covering from the influence of the chloroform she went into
J the most violent of all the spasms she has had.
i POWERS OF SECOND SIGHT—SEALED LETTERS DECIPHERED—DISTANT FRIENDS
SEEN AND THEIR SURROUNDINGS DESCRIBED—WORKS OF ART FASHIONED BY
I A BLIND GIRL.
No sooner had Miss Fancher emerged from her first trance,
soon after the accident, than she astonished her relatives by
an extraordinary description of what she had seen while in
that condition. It was unmistakable second sight. As the
trances continued, the manifestations increased. She
watched and related in detail the movements of the family’s
friends in different parts of the city, and ultimately narrated
what was happening to those who were many miles away.
She read letters that were enclosed in envelopes and kept in
| the pockets of those about her. She recognised persons
who rang the door bell, while they were still outside the
I house, and of course not visible to her. She read books
whose covers were closed, and newspapers that were
folded. Every day brought some new and astonishing de¬
velopment of this power. Yet with all this was the most
sensitive repugnance toward letting her condition become
known to the general public through the newspapers, or
J toward being a subject of talk or gossip by strangers. Her
friends were always welcome to her bedside, but it was long
| before a stranger was admitted, and yet longer before she
| could be persuaded to show her powers to any but the most
I intimate friends. This sensitiveness continues even to the
|; closing of the thirteenth year of her illness. She will not
| consent that her friends shall give any information concern-
I; ing her that is intended for publicity. And they have so far
|; acceded to her desires that, although repeatedly sought for,
| j it is not-until very recently that any details of her curious
j I existence have been obtained. She numbers among her
M frequent visitors clergymen, physicians, scholars, and men
j j of science, many of whose names are mentioned in this
j article, and all of whom are seriously interested in her
I I marvellous condition. She lies in a modest, yet comfortable
| | home, surrounded by the fashionable avenues of that part of
j I Brooklyn known as the Hill. Her intelligent and ladylike
]; bearing, the unquestionable position of those with whom
| I she is surrounded, her unmistakable truthfulness, the ab-
|! j horrence with which she regards publicity, and the absence
j j of any motive for enriching herself or her friends by the
| j use of her gifts, seem to those who have studied her case to
| | preclude the possibility of intentional deception or imposi-
i ] j tion.
j HER APPEARANCE WHILE IN TRANCE.
It is in the condition of trance that Miss Fancher makes
|| her most astonishing revelations. At these times she sud-
| | denly starts as though charged from an electric battery, and
|' | instantly becomes rigid in every joint and muscle. Her face
| | takes on sometimes a most painful expression, at others one
|' | of positive pleasure; yet, oftener, it is as the face of one
| /1 who is dead. To those unaccustomed to seeing her, the con-
I | viction that she is indeed dead is irresistible. A death-like
i i pallor creeps over the already pale face. Not the slightest
Dec. 20, 1878.
THE SriEITUALIST.
291
movement is perceptible in any of her muscles. She ceases j | j
to breathe. Her body becomes cold. Her heart gives out j | j
no pulsations that are easily detected, although her physi- I s |
cians have not convinced themselves that it does not beat.
The initiatory start oftentimes raises her up into a half- j j I
sitting, half-reclining position, in which she remains as j’s j
immovable as though she were of marble. Every one who | j j
has seen her in this condition speaks of the beauty and j 11
pathos of the scene—the ashen complexion ; the brown, fine j | j
waving hair streaming towards her shoulders, yet not reach- 11 j
ing them; the faultless features, neither wrinkled nor I j!
drawn nor wasted, and yet not rounded and ruddy as in her j (|
school-girl days; one hand and graceful arm transfixed in j / j
its position at the instant of attack, perhaps pointing up- j 11
ward, perhaps extended to receive a visitor’s salutation, J|
perhaps folded over her breast; the other arm bent behind j j
her head as though she were resting upon it; the eyes j
closed. j 11
She remains thus sometimes for half an hour, sometimes j j j
for half a minute. She has remained so for twenty-four | j
hours. After she recovers, the breathing for a few seconds j j I
is very laboured, and she is exhausted, the muscles relax to j j
their former condition, and she settles back upon her pillow j |
with a very marked expression of either acute sorrow or j | j
great pleasure upon her face, for her experiences in the j |
trance give her one or the other of these sensations.
The trances are the only rest she obtains. She never j j
sleeps. Day and night are alike to her. She can distinguish j j
persons, forms, and colours with as much accuracy at mid- 11 j
night as at midday, although it is established beyond j !
question that she has not the sight of her natural eyes, nor j |
lias she had such normal sight save in the interval mentioned j |
since the beginning of the attack. j !
THE EFFECT OF EXCITEMENT. i ( |
Any undue excitement throws her into a trance—a thunder j j j
clap, the firing of a cannon, the unexpected intrusion of a j j
stranger into her room, worry over an absent member of the j |
household ; and the trances are repeated with rapidity until j
her mind is again in repose. Oftentimes, when worried over j j
the absence of some loved one, she has said, “ I must search || |
for her,” and has gone into the trance. On emerging there- j j
from, if asked whether her search was successful, she jjj
answers promptly, if in the affirmative: “ Yes ; I saw her j !
in street; she will soon be home,” and very soon in |(j
walks the wanderer. Sometimes she is not successful in j j
several attempts, but she ceases not until satisfied. At j j
other times her vision wanders. It has gone to a summer |||
seat on the Hudson, where were several of her friends, and i |
she has afterwards been able to describe minutely the houses, j j j
the barns, the meadows and fences, the water in front of i j
and the woodland in the rear of the dwelling, and with a |
fidelity that is instantly recognised by those familiar with j j
the region. When scientific men and physicians have pro- j |
duced some extraordinarily difficult tests she has been obliged j j
to wait until the trance condition came upon her; for it does j
not seem always to be voluntary. But if it is a simple 11
question of reading an ordinary sealed letter, or announcing i j |
the arrival of a person at the street door, she easily solves | I
the difficulty without recourse to the trance. As she rests j |
continually upon her right side, her face is averted from the | j j
entrance to the room. Yet she oftentimes knows who enters j
although unable to turn her head, and is quick to discern any j
peculiarity or change of dress. If a gentleman friend puts j
on a white necktie in early spring, after having worn a black | j
one, she is quite likely to cry out, her face averted : “ Good j j
afternoon, Mr. ! Where did you get your necktie ?” It |
has been deemed necessary to darken her room, and the j j
shades are tightly drawn ; yet the darkness does not affect j
her vision. She is ever busy in the darkness, reading, or at |
needle or waxwork, or casting up the accounts of the family, j
for she keeps a record of every expenditure. She writes j j
letters with astonishing rapidity, in a neat legible hand, I
although it is certain she cannot see with normal sight, and, j j
mindful of the interest that her condition may excite among j j
scientific men, she has kept a complete record of her feelings, !
her sensations while in a trance and out of it, her religious j j
beliefs as strengthened or shaken by the revelations of her j j
peculiar state, and of everything that she thinks will interest 1 \
her friends. This record she guards with care. She is
willing that it may be given to the public after her death,
but not until then.
Her fondness for dogs and cats, birds and squirrels, has
amounted almost to a passion, yet, strangely enough, her
pets do not live long. Whether she draws the life from them
has been an interesting study for some of the men of intelli¬
gence who have visited her.
Persons who have entered the room have found her
apparently doing nothing, and have asked her why she was
idle. “Oh, I am reading such and such a book.”
“Well, where is it?”
“ Under the .bedclothes, here,” and she produces it and
talks of its contents.
BLIND, YET ABLE TO DISCRIMINATE COLOURS.
While Miss Fancher’s eyes were absolutely sightless, the
eyelids being closed, and the eyeballs fixed as though in death,
she was able with facility and without seeming effort to
make marvels of fancy work. For her gentlemen friends she
embroidered suspenders, and worked slippers and watch-
pockets, and for companions of her girlhood she made needle¬
work of all kinds, pincushions, and wax flowers. Every stitch
was in proper place, every shade of coloured thread and
worsted was correctly drawn. Her handiwork was as near per¬
fection as could be. Some of it was sent to fairs, where, its
maker being unknown, it was pronounced superior to all others
of its kind exhibited. Sometimes she worked from paper
patterns purchased at a fancy store, sometimes from other
fancy work, but oftener she originated her designs. It was
impossible to deceive her in the quality or shade of the
materials with which she worked, her rare power of so-called
second sight enabling her to detect any flaw with greater
accuracy than did the natural vision of her friends. Once,
when a peculiarly delicate effect in a piece of worsted work called
for an especial shade, it was necessary to ask a gentleman
friend to procure it for her in New York city. Miss Fancher
evinced considerable anxiety lest an error should be made
in the selection, and gave more minute directions concerning
its purchase than was her practice. In due time her friend
returned with the parcel. “ You’ve brought the wrong
shade, I am sorry to say,” was the greeting she gave him before
he had so much as spoken to her, and while the worsted was yet
in his pocket.
“It’s just according to sample. Miss Mollie. The sales¬
man was very particular to compare them.”
“ Yes, he may have thought so, but it’s a shade too light,
and it will not do.”
The worsted was produced, and the pattern from which the
work was to be made was put by its side. Those in the room
could not detect a difference. The sick girl insisted that it was
too light. “ Take it back, please, when you are passing, and
the expert.will convince you that I am right,” she said. Back
went the gentleman with the worsted.
“ You gave me the wrong shade,” said he'to the clerk.
That young man examined and denied.
“Call your expert,” said the ambassador ; and the expert
came.
“ It is a lighter shade than the sample,” was the expert’s
decision ; and he quickly produced the proper one.
“This is just right,” was Miss Fancher’s greeting, as the
second parcel was handed to her unopened.
MARVELS IN WAX-WORK.
Yet more astonishing are her effects in wax-work. Without
having taken a lesson, and without knowledge of botany, and,
too, without pattern, she fashions in wax beautiful designs—
windows filled with flowers, and vines, and butterflies, bouquets,
crosses, and, anchors. Once asked how she was able to do all
this, she answered, “Oh, I see the leaves, and then make
others like them.”
All this wax-work making, and embroidery, and needlework
on canvas is made while one hand is rigidly held back of her
head. With this hand she holds her work, and plies the
needle with the other. Even though she had the sight of her
eyes, it must be impossible for her to see the work in the
position in which she is compelled to hold it. She works or
reads by night, no light whatever being in the room, with the
same facility as by day, and not for an instant hesitates to
select the proper shade and size of worsted from the score of
292
THE SPIRITUALIST
colours and sizes that are within her reach. She works mono¬
grams of her own fancy into the silk handkerchiefs of her
gentlemen friends, and puts butterflies, and leaves, and birds
upon them with rare taste and skill. One of the most beautiful
of her wax-work productions, an exquisite and delicate bower of
roses and creepers, adorns the parlour of Professor West’s
Brooklyn Heights Seminary, 126, Montague-street. She has
neglected none of her friends : all have some little gem of her
own fashioning.
WATCHING HER DISTANT FRIENDS.
The faculty that the young lady’s friends have most fre¬
quently noticed in her, is that of following some of her
acquaintances—those who are dearest to her as a rule—from
place to place. Hundreds of times she has done this with
scarcely an error as to place or occurrence. For example, one
afternoon she suddenly said, ‘ ‘ I see (mentioning the
gentleman’s name) in his office. (The office was in New York.)
He is closing his desk. (After five minutes’ pause.) He is
walking down Fulton-street. (Another pause.) Now he is
getting into a Fulton-avenue car. With him is a tall gentle¬
man with black eyes, black hair, and moustache—they are talk¬
ing and the car has started. Now they are passing the City
Hall. There, the tall gentleman has got out of the car at St.
Felix-street and  is coming on alone. He, too, has got
out of the car and is coming this way—I guess he is coming
here. Yes, he is ; here he comes around the corner ; look out
and you will see him, ” and looking from the window the gentle¬
man referred to was indeed seen approaching at a rapid pace,
and was soon in the room.
‘ ‘ Whom did you ride up with I ’ ’ was asked by one of the
persons to whom Miss Fanchor had been describing the ride.
“Mr.- .”
“ Describe him.”
“ Tall, black hair, moustache, and eyes; he left me at St,
Felix-street—why ? ”
‘* Mollie has been watching you for three-quarters of an
hour or so, and has been telling us about this tall man. You
had better be careful how you carry yourself, ’ ’ was the reply.
HER SIGHT NOT OMNIPRESENT.
It may be of interest to those who would seek searching
inquiry into the girl’s powers of sight-seeing to know that
she cannot follow two persons who take different directions.
This was proved unintentionally by an incident a few months
only, after the remarkable power was first developed, and one
that was at that time considered the most astonishing of her
performances. An intimate lady friend was convinced that
Miss Fancher’s powers were identical with those possessed by
clairvoyants, so she wished to consult a clairvoyant that she
might compare the two. Miss Fancher had, from the first,
disclaimed any connection with so-called clairvoyants. To be
classed with them or to be suspected of employing their
methods, so far as she knew what their methods were, gave
her mental pain. Her sensitiveness upon the subject made
her unhappy. • Seeming to divine that her powers would
certainly be called by some clairvoyance, she took especial
occasion to beg that no clairvoyant, or spiritualist, or second-
sight seer be permitted to see her. She wished to have
nothing to do with them. This feeling, therefore, led this
intimate friend to make no mention of her desire to consult a
clairvoyant, knowing that it would pain Miss Fancher to know
of the visit. Before starting, the lady called upon the girl,
and, after a half-hour’s stay, started to go. At the same
time a gentleman friend present arose to go. “See if you
can follow me where I go,” he said, as he left the room with
the lady. The gentleman went to New York and the lady to
a clairvoyant’s house, where, having tested the clairvoyant’s
powers to her satisfaction, she drifted off into a general talk
in which Miss Fancher’s case was mentioned, and at length
departed. Thoroughly interested, the lady decided to go
again to see her. She found the girl sobbing as though heart¬
broken.
“What is the matter, dear ?” the visitor asked, soothingly.
“You have been to see a clairvoyant about me, and it
makes me feel, oh, so badly,” was the reply ; and Miss Fancher
proceeded to narrate in exact detail through what streets the
lady had walked, and at what number she had rung the bell
and been admitted. The details were absolutely correct. It
was an incident that had interested the girl more than any
other as yet coming within her notice since her changed con-
Dec. 20, 1878.
!j dition, and is regarded by many as proof that things that
| most directly concern her are things which her powers of
| sight-seeing most clearly define. The next time that the
gentleman friend called, he asked: Did you follow me the other
| day, as I asked you to ?” to which she answered : “ Yes, until
I your car reached Cumberland-street ; then I saw that Mrs. 
| (mentioning her lady friend’s name) was doing something that
| very much interested and pained me, and I could not go with you
any further, but had to go with her.” She seems to have
| been enabled to follow both in their separate paths for a short
distance, although they took different routes after a few steps
| together ; but after her mind became fixed upon the lady’s
| movements, in which seemingly greater mental effort was used,
whether required or not, her gentleman friend was lost to view.
The two stories of Miss Fancher’s powers of sight-seeing
that her friends tell of with the greatest interest are of the
return of her uncle Isaac from California, and the welcome
I home, some time afterward, of her lost pet dog. Her uncle,
j Mr. Isaac Crosby, went to California before the accident to
| Miss Fancher, and while she was a comparatively little girl.
He was strong, healthy, and robust, with a full face and a
| big chest. While in California he contracted consumption,
! and nine years after his arrival there, returned to Brooklyn,
and first of all sought Mrs. Crosby, with whom Miss Fancher
| lives. Prof. West, her old instructor, and Mrs. Crosby, sat
I in her room when the door bell was rung. Mrs. Crosby
! started to answer the summons, and as she stepped from the
room Miss Fancher exclaimed in astonished tones, “ Why, its
! Uncle Ike!”
“ Who is Uncle Ike ?” asked Prof. West.
“ Uncle Ike ! Why, he went to California before I went to
your school. How he has changed—how sick he looks.” And
Miss Fancher entertained the Professor with a description of
the uncle’s departure for the land of gold, how he then
appeared, and his contrasted physiognomy on his return.
| Meantime Mrs. Crosby had opened the door, and not recog-
| nising her brother, asked the visitor’s business. Mr. Crosby
I had indeed so changed that it required some little talk to con-
| vince the sister of his identity. After a half hour she returned
| upstairs and saluted Miss Fancher with “ Who do you think
I is down in the parlour?” and Miss Fancher very promptly
| answered, “Uncle Ike, of course, and he is very sick.”
| The girl had instantly recognised him, while, of course, it
| was impossible for her to see him.
Miss Fancher’s pet dog had contrived to find a warmer
i place in her heart than had her other pets. He rarely left
| her, and he was much of a companion in her long hours of
I wakefulness. But one day the dog disappeared from the
| house and was seen again no more for some time. Miss
I Fancher mourned for him, but she insisted that he would
| soon return again, and she seemed to be constantly looking
| for him. It was about two o’clock one rainy, tempestuous
| morning that she aroused Mrs. Crosby. “ Get up, get up,”
| she cried, “ the dog is coming home. I see him way down
| the avenue. He is coming this way and he will soon be here.”
| Mrs. Crosby did not hurry, and Miss Fancher broke out once
| more, ‘ ‘ Here he comes nearer. Go down and let him in ;
| he’ll be here by the time you get into the door ; there he is
| across the street—now he’s on the steps.” Mrs. Crosby went
| down and there was the lost dog, wet, gaunt, hungry, but
i happy to get home. He was taken to Miss Fanchcr, and in
the silent hours preceding the break of day she fed him with
| the best the house afforded.
A gentleman who had been a frequent visitor entered her
I room one afternoon, and, laughingly tossing a wallet in the
! air, said, “ Tell me how much change is in there and I will
j give it you.”
“Sixty-seven cents,” was the girl’s reply.
The gentleman, who did not himself know how much money
| the wallet contained, counted its contents. Miss Fancher’s
| declaration had been correct.
Her powers of vision seem to have no limit. She has not
j only seen and described the appearance and actions of friends
| in other cities, but has been able to picture the doings of very
| near acquaintances who, for a time, lived in the Bermuda
| Islands.
THE MIND FREED FROM THE BONDAGE OF THE BODY.
“I have known of Mollie Fancher for several years,” said
I the Rev. Joseph T. Duryea, pastor of the Classon Avenue
Dec. 20, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
293
Presbyterian Church. “ I have seen her, and I have bestowed I j
some study and considerable thought upon her. After I had | j
become convinced that she really did the strange things that ! j
were told of her, I mentioned her in some of my discourses, j j j
Mr. George W. Benson, who is well known here in Brooklyn as m
the Chairman of our Committee of One Hundred that under took j (j
to purify city politics, and who is this week out of town, saw | [
her day after day for years, and was absolutely amazed at her j j
powers. I had known of her some time before I went to see j j j
her, and in passing the house I had once or twice stopped to j
speak with her aunt when she happened to be at the door, j j
The afternoon I called upon Miss Fancher I was with Mr. ! j j
Benson. He entered the room in advance of me and motioned j j
me to silence.. After he had conversed with her a few sen- I j
fences, he said : ‘ Mollie, who is this ? ’ j j
“She answered, ‘Idon’t see anybody except you.’
“ ‘Look sharp,’ was the rejoinder; and then the girl made j j
a movement as though in mental effort, and after a moment | \ j
answered, ‘ I see him now ; it’s Dr. Duryea.’ j j j
“ ‘ Did you ever see him before ? ’
“ ‘Yes, down at the gate, talking to aunt.’
‘‘ ‘How long ago ?’ j|
“ ‘ About three weeks—the day aunt went down to call the j j
dog.’
“ ‘Now how can you prove to Dr. Duryea that you saw j j
him there ? ’ m
“ ‘ He wore a rubber coat.’ j j
‘ ‘ Then, ’ ’ added Dr. Duryea, “ I remembered that it rained, j j
and as I had to go to the church and then to a funeral that | J
afternoon, I had slipped on my rubber coat. I remembered | j S
it more particularly for the reason that it was the last time I ij
ever wore the coat. I gave it to the driver as I entered the ] I
coach, after the funeral, and he hung it up to dry by a stove | j
in the livery stable on his return, and it was burned up. It j j
was on my way from the church to the funeral that I stopped, j j
for a moment only, to talk to Mollie’s aunt. Mollie’s Spitz j |
dog was out on the step barking at boys that were teazing it, j I
and the aunt had gone out to take it in. The girl described i
us perfectly.”
“Being convinced then that Miss Fancher practises no j j
deception, how are her powers to be explained ? ”
“ It is impossible to satisfactorily account for them. That j j
she has most astonishing powers of seeing friends in different 11 j
parts of the country and city, and of doing other almost in- j j
comprehensible things, I have not a doubt. The child cannot i \ I
deceive; she is beyond that; she does not wish to practise j i
imposition. But her physical changes have in some manner j < j
released her mind from the imprisonment of the body, and I j i
she does with it what other mortals cannot do with theirs, j i i
Here she is deprived first of hearing, then of sight, then of j (j
speech, her throat paralysed—sealed up so that nothing could 11 j
be passed through it—in such a state that you might as well j j j
expect her to swallow a ramrod as a piece of bread; her j j
abdominal organs in the same condition. The mind or spirit | |
was absolutely confined. May it not with a mighty effort j
have burst away, and, once partly freed from the confines of j j j
the physical body, have been governed by other and higher j
laws than those that control it while under the bondage of the | j
body ? That men’s minds are largely subject to their physical j j
condition is well understood. Occasionally, as in this instance, | j
under peculiar conditions, we find this power, which we call j i
second-sight or clairvoyance. What it is we have not yet j j
ascertained, for the reason, possibly, that so few of the cases j
have been scientifically investigated ; no critical comparisons j j j
of one case with another have been made to discover the i ( j
analogies. I think such instances should have the most wide- j | j
spread publicity of descriptions of their mental and physical j |
phenomena. The more we know of them the sooner we shall j (j
solve their mysteries.” j / j
“Miss Fancher sees the images of those who have gone
before her to the spirit world ? ” j j j
“ Miss Fancher unquestionably thinks that she sees them, j j
and communes with them. Yet this is not so incomprehen- | |
sible as some of her other acts. She has known their faces <
upon earth. With increased mental powers naturally comes j j 1
increased imagination. I can readily understand how little | |
increase of imagining it would require for you or for me to IJ j
think in our dreams or out of them, for that matter, that we j j j
are talking with those who are dead. Men imagine they are j} |
sick while they are well, and imagine they are well while they
are sick—imagine almost every conceivable thing ; neverthe¬
less, they always have had something from which to work.
Miss Fancher may think she is in heaven, yet she had read
enough in her Bible to give her a basis for making a picture
of heaven in her mind. While I do not say that she has not
seen so-called spiritual sights, I can see an explanation of
why she thinks she has seen them. It is her power of sight
of things upon earth that are concealed from the sight of
others that puzzles me. Tests are made of the powers in
which she has absolutely no foundation from which to work.
How does she arrange and decipher the contents of a letter
that has been cut into pieces and sealed within an envelope—
a letter the contents of which those who gave it to her had
not the slightest notion. Let’s settle that before we get into
the merits of what it is possible may be produced by a
heightened imagination ; it’s the more astonishing per¬
formance.”
“Miss Fancher’s case is known to many in the neighbour¬
hood, is it not ? ”
“ It is; I very often mention it, and I teach its lesson. I
like to see such peculiar manifestations of the mind and the
body made public. They teach the difference of existence
between the spirit and the flesh, and the superiority of the
one over the other. I have followed her closely, and always
with no more deep wonderment at her peculiar manifestations
than admiration of the sweet, contented cheerfulness of her
disposition, the purity and simplicity of her life, 'and her
steadfast hope.”
SEVERE TESTS OF CLAIRVOYANCE.
Mr. Henry M. Parkhurst, of 173, Gates-avenue, Brooklyn,
who is favourably known among scientific men as an astronomer
and a student, became interested in Miss Fancher’s case early
in its development. He has closely watched the changes in her
condition, and has kept a complete record of them. He has
spent hours at her bedside, and, wishing to satisfy himself
from a scientific basis, has made many tests of her powers, and
has reached many interesting conclusions. Mr. Parkhurst was
at first inclined to suspect that Miss Fancher’s power of second
sight was derived from an ability to read minds. It was noticed
that she rarely extended her vision beyond her friends, or some
one who in some way was interested in her. ‘ ‘ She reads their
thoughts,” said Mr. Parkhurst to himself. To prove or dis¬
prove this theory he made two tests. If I take to her a sealed
letter, the contents of which neither myself nor any of her
friends has any knowledge, and she is unable to decipher it,
my theory will be strengthened, mused he. From the waste
basket of a New York gentleman he fished an unimportant
business letter without reading it, tore it into ribbons, and tore
the ribbons into squares. He shook‘the pieces well together,
put them into an envelope, and sealed it. This he subse¬
quently handed to Miss Fancher. The blind girl took the
envelope in her hand, passed her hand over it several times,
called for paper and pencil, and wrote the letter verbatim.
The seal of the envelope had not been broken. Mr. Park¬
hurst himself opened it, pasted the contents together, and
compared the two. Miss Fancher’s was a literal copy of the
original.
Nevertheless, Mr. Parkhurst wished to make a severer test.
He called two friends to assist him. In his house was hunted
up an ancient report of. a mining company that was yellow
with many years of keeping. Turning at random to a page,
the other gentleman standing too far away to be able to read
the text, Mr. Parkhurst cut out a fragment of the leaf con¬
taining tabulated figures, and, beneath the tables, explanations
of them. He averted his face as much as was possible, that
he might not know even to what the text or the figures re¬
ferred. Then he folded the fragment in his fingers, and with
the scissors cut it into a score of pieces. Some of the bits
fell upon the floor, and were allowed to remain there un¬
touched. The others were put in an envelope by Mr. Park¬
hurst, and the envelope was sealed. Then Mr. Parkhurst
handed the envelope to one of the gentlemen, who put it
within a second envelope and sealed it, affixing a waxen wafer.
In turn it was given to the third of the party, and he enclosed
it in a third envelope in the same manner. Then the gen¬
tleman went to Miss Fancher’s room and asked her to give
them the contents of the envelope. She took it from them,
passed her thumb rapidly over it several times, and then began
to write. “It is nonsense,” said she. “Figures in which
there are blank places ; words that are incomplete ; sentences
294
the spiritualist.
Dec. 20, 1878.
“ SPIRIT DRAPERY.’1
BY C. 0. MASSEY.
in which words are missing.” But the girl wrote on. Some
of her sentences skipped three or four words, and began with
the last five letters of a word that had ten letters. The
tables of figures that she made contained blank places, but
she wrote it out, and taking it with them the gentlemen went
back to Mr. Parkhurst’s. The original fragment from the
pamphlet was pasted together, the parts that had fallen to
the floor and had not been put into the envelope being desig¬
nated with an ink mark. The comparison revealed that Miss
Fancher had made a faithful copy of the contents of the
envelope, even to writing the parts of incomplete words that
had been cut in two by the scissors, the other letters of the
word having fallen to the floor. Sentences, too, had been
rendered intelligible by the same process; but they were
written just as they appeared after mutilation.
Fix it as he might, Miss Fancher was always able to decipher
Mr. Parkhurst’s tests, and the result of those in this particular
direction seemed convincing that mind reading was not neces¬
sarily the secret of her second sight-seeing. That she does
read minds has been established, however, by a different line
of experiments. Whatever her aunt, Mrs. Crosby, knows, Miss
Fancher very soon has in her possession, and it seems to matter
very little what is the nature of the information.
Mr. Parkhurst was asked to reveal the result of many
other tests that it is known he has made. His reply, in
substance, was, “My relations with Miss Fancher and with her
relatives have been of the most confidential nature. She has
insisted that no information shall be given for publication,
and I cannot violate her wish. The time will come when it
will all be published—after her death, possibly. You know
in general of the wonderful things she does ; why seek
details ? ”
“ Your tests have convinced you that there is no impo¬
sition ? ’ ’
“I am more than satisfied that Mollie Fancher never
attempted deception. What she does is in the greatest sim¬
plicity, and never with desire that others than her few
intimate friends may know of it. She is exceedingly sensitive
to publicity. I should be most happy to inform the world of
what I have known, and the conclusions I have reached con¬
cerning her, but without her consent 1 cannot do so. But I
do say that she has not a thought of imposing upon or
deceiving anybody.”
(To he continued.)
One much to be regretted effect of the proposed strict economy of the
National Association of Spiritualists during 1879, will be, that the en¬
gagement of Miss Burke as assistant secretary will terminate at the
end of the present month. Miss Burke’s unusual poetical ability is
well known, and she is highly popular with the members. Will nobody
take steps to prevent the change ?
Sunday Services at Notting-hill.—Mr. W. H. Lambelle writes :—
** The series of meetings recently organised in Ladbroke Hall is being
pursued with vigour. The discourses on the Origin of Religious Cere¬
monies have, for the present, been postponed, in order that such sub¬
jects as will explain more fully the teachings and philosophy of Spirit¬
ualism may be dealt with. The neighbourhood is, comparatively speak¬
ing, new to the entire subject, hence the advisability of the change.
Last Sunday evening the subject of address was An Inquiry into the
Essential Qualities of Spirit; and next Sunday evening will be devoted
to the discussion of the theme, Man Naturally and Necessarily a Spiritual
Being. The morning services, commencing at 11.80, consist of short
addresses and questions at the close. Friends are cordially invited to
support these meetings with their presence, and to introduce them to the
notice of their acquaintances.—Ladbroke Hall, Ladbroke-grove-road,
Notting-hill Station, W.”
The Southampton Philosophicai, and Musical Society.—The
ninth lecture in connection with this society was delivered in the Kell
Memorial Schools on Thursday evening, by Mr. Fahrig, of Southampton,
the subject being “ Spiritualism.” There was a large audience. The
chair was taken by the Rev. D. Amos. Mr. Fahrig said he held it to
be a fact that this life of ours on earth, which was prima facie so
material, was yet essentially spiritual, that it was purely probationary,
an earthly curriculum, and that ethereal beings who watched our
career sympathised with our condition, and, in a thousand ways,
ministered to and for our benefit. And yet—though this opinion was
shared by a vast majority of mankind—it was regarded as ‘‘a thing
incredible ’ ’ that spiritual beings had power to manifest their presence
in a manner that must for ever remove all doubts of their existence.
That was just the point in dispute, and the affirmative of which he was
there to prove. The lecturer then dwelt on the distinct phases of
spiritualistic belief, and asked his audience to turn away from the j
wicked impostures practised in its name, and to realise with him its j
grand proof of the existence of God and the immortality of the soul, j
borne discussion followed, and the proceedings terminated in the usual |
manner.—Southampton Times. j
| | I do not frequently trouble you with records of phenomena
| | occurring under my own observation. I have found that,
| | scientifically, sufficient and unexceptionable evidence of
| l these things is extremely rare and difficult to obtain. To
j I obtain it is one of the greatest of satisfactions. It renews
| | one’s faith and imparts reality to speculations that far
j ! transcend the immediate significance of the facts. The
11 following account of the apportation of drapery to a cabinet
j | during a seance, and its sequel, not only have a special
| J interest just now, but present, for those who can confide in
| I the accuracy of my statements, as good a piece of evidence
j I as can be had consistently with reliance on human testimony,
i | The circle consisted of four intimate friends, including
| myself, one of them being a powerful but not a professional
| ! medium, whose only interest in assisting us was friendship,
11 and the direction of a “ control ” that we should sit for this
| | particular experiment. I am not at liberty to give his or
| | her name, and for this reason I think it better also not to
j I publish the names of the other two, or our place of meeting,
| which was not on the premises of the medium. I enclose
| | these particulars, however, in confidence for your own satis-
| | faction. At our first seance for this purpose, the change
I | of clothing and substitution of coloured garments provided
by one of us were believed to be absolutely complete. The
j ! name of the person performing this operation would be a
| | guarantee to all acquaintances of the good faith and thorough-
| ness with which it would be accomplished. We entered
I what I will call the cabinet before the medium, and satisfied
| ourselves that its bare walls and floor (over which we threw
| a rug) enclosed nothing available for deceit by man, woman,
| or spirit. After the medium had gone in, we reduced the light,
| | which remained sufficient for observation, and took our seats
| I about four or five feet from and in front of the “cabinet.”
| | We soon heard the voice of the spirit, the “ control,” or the
J | entranced medium, whichever any one may like to suppose.
| | Shortly afterwards a long, gauzy, white fabric was waved
| | before us, flung over us, and we were allowed to feel it.
I I A figure appeared to us, spoke to us, and touched us. I
j | asked if the drapery had been materialised or bought, and
I was answered (with a directness too unusual)—“ Brought, of
j j course” We were importunate to know u whence; ” but
j | our strange visitor apparently thought that the traditional
j | reticence of the “ materialised spirit ” had been sufficiently
| departed from in the information already vouchsafed, and we
| | could obtain no satisfaction on this head. We asked that
| I the drapery might be left with us, and it was thrown out at
I once. We lit up, woke the medium, and examined our prize,
| I which turned out to be three yards of common muslin,
| apparently cut from a piece.
i Our purpose seemed accomplished of experimentally de-
I monstrating a fact of great importance to mediums incul-
| pated upon no better evidence than the seizure of such
j mundane fabrics. Accordingly 1 prepared the above ac¬
count, and had submitted it to ray colleagues in the in¬
vestigation before forwarding it to you, when a slight ex¬
ception was taken, or appeared to me to be taken, by the
medium, to the perfect sufficiency of the test. I at once
communicated the doubt to the others, and though they
(one of them a gentleman of great scientific attainments,
and of experience moreover in these investigations) agreed
in treating it as extravagant, it was resolved to repeat the
experiment with due provision against the suggested fallacy
before reporting it to you. Accordingly, we sat again the
other day, and this time the precautions taken were ab¬
solutely exhaustive; and it is not too much to say that
unless one of us, a person of the highest honour and charac¬
ter (the medium, of course, cheerfully recognising the
scientific propriety of being treated exactly on the footing
of a suspected impostor), was wilfully deceiving us, the
medium entered the cabinet, which was again examined,
without the possibility of having any objectionable material
concealed on the person. Yet the same phenomenon re¬
curred, with this difference. After exhibiting a great
length of the white, gauzy fabric, we were directed to take
it, examine it, and then to bring the medium out to sit
with us at the table for a few minutes. We did so, the
Deo. 20, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
295
material differing from that formerly brought, in that it
was of the substance called grenadine instead of muslin,
but of about the same length as the other. After a
short interval, medium and drapery were replaced in the
cabinet, and then we agreed to ask that the drapery,
instead of being left as before, should be taken away by the
spirit power, and the medium subjected to another thorough
examination. The “ dainty Ariel,” who was serving us so
well, at once complied; we brought out the medium, and
the grenadine was gone. The medium was searched, and the
change of clothes, the entire change, was effected without
the former having been out of sight of all of us for a single
moment. And we watched this individual, whom in our
hearts we knew to be superior to any suspicion of wretched
trickery as either of ourselves, with as much and as incessant
vigilance (every gesture and movement being observed) as
though the very reverse were the case. No trace of the
drapery was to be found.
The last act remains to be described.
I left with the medium, who had never quitted the room
since the conclusion of the stance, except with our friend
deputed to the search, and only on that occasion. On our
way it occurred to us that, as the spirits were in such a good
humour, we might possibly recover the missing fabric by us
two sitting for it forthwith at the medium’s residence. A cab
soon took us there. I made a hasty but sufficient search of
the apartment, looking especially on the floor under and
round the table at which we sat. The lamp had been
extinguished, but it was far too cold to sacrifice the excellent
fire, which we could only imperfectly screen, so there was a
tolerable light. At once on sitting, I took both the medium’s
hands in mine. A shower of raps came on the table. “ You
know what we want—will you bring it ?” Rap, rap, rap.
A few moments’ silence, then more raps. u Have you brought
it ?” i( Yes.” We sprung up, looked on the floor, and found
—nothing. The medium was provoked. Only a few days
ago a most michievous prank, occasioning much incon¬
venience, had been played, and it seemed likely that we
were being made fools of. However, at my instance we sat
again—my precautionary search on the floor immediately
preceding my again taking the medium’s hands. Again
came the exulting raps. “ Has it come ?” fc Yes.” “ Is it
on the floor ?” “ Yes.” Search again, and there, not quite
under the table, and two or three feet from the medium, was
spread the grenadine, to all sight, touch, and measurement,
the identical piece we had last seen on the floor of the
cabinet in Street; I carried it off for identification by
my colleagues, who recognise it, and fully confirm the
accuracy of so much of the foregoing account as relates to
what occurred before the medium and I left them.
Temple, December 14, 1878.
The Spiritualist will go to press much earlier than usual next week.
Early in January Mr. J. W. Fletcher will begin delivering a Sunday
series of trance addresses at the Cavendish Rooms, in connection with
Spiritualism.
Mr. E. W. "Wallis will attend at the rooms of the Dalston Associa¬
tion, 53, Sigdon-road, Hackney-downs, on Monday evening next, 23rd
inst., at 8 o’clock, and a discourse on a Spiritualistic subject to be
selected by the audience will be delivered. Questions will be invited
at the close.
Spiritualism in Ralston.—The ordinary monthly meeting of the
Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism was
held at 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, London, E., on Thursday evening,
12th instant, under the presidency of Mrs. J. Corner. Correspon¬
dence of general interest was read from Mr. W. Eglinton, Mr.
James Mather, Mr. E. W. Wallis, Mr. E. Harrison Green, and
Mr. James Burns. Resignations of membership were accepted,
with regret, from Mr. and Mrs. James Regan, Mr. J. T. Dales,
Mrs. M. Hollingsworth, Mr. T. E. Larking, Dr. Alfred R. Ben¬
son, and Mrs. T. Blyton. The honorary treasurer submitted the cash
accounts, which were passed. The hon. secretary read correspondence
with Mr. C. E. Williams, the consideration of which was deferred sine
die. Consequent on the Christmas holidays, it was resolved to postpone
the visit of Miss Mancell from December 26th to Thursday evening, 2nd
January next, and the rooms of the Association were ordered to be
closed on the former date. The hon. secretary was instructed to prepare
a draft of a proposed annual report for consideration at the next
meeting of the Council. Messrs. R. Pearce and G. R. Tapp were
appointed to audit the accounts of the Association for the year 1878, and
the eighth annual general meeting was ordered to be summoned for
Thursday evening, January 30th next, at 8 o’clock. The Council then
adjourned.
Ill “ THE INTELLIGENT OPERATOR AT THE OTHER END
! j OF THE LINE.”*
j BY W. STAINTON-MOSES, M.A.
| | The phrase that heads this paper was originally used by
| | Mr. Crookes. I employ it as stating the position whence I
j I start on an inquiry into the evidence for spirit identity,
j I do not stay to discuss whether I have a soul. I will
111 assume so much.
! I Nor do I enter into all the theories that have been pro-
| ! pounded: such as these—that psychic force is accountable
! | for all; that the devil is at the bottom of everything; that
| | sub-human spirits act exclusively or generally; that the
| j liberated spirit of the psychic is the sole or principal agent,
j I simply adduce evidence to show that in certain provable
j ! cases the intelligent operator is probably what he pretends
j j to be.
| j The reasons for doubting his claim may be shortly stated
! | thus:—
! j 1. The free use of great names where plain nonsense or
| | pretentious platitudes are the only outcome.
| 2. The extreme difficulty of getting any precise facts
i | clearly stated.
| 3. The contradictions and absurdities that pervade many
I | messages.
I I [These points having been fully discussed, and the evi-
| | dence on the other side, derived from private circles properly
| j conditioned, having been put, the argument continued.]
| ! Admitting, however, to the full the weight of these con-
| j siderations, I claim with much confidence that the identity
i of some of those of our kind who have lived on earth, and
| ! who now live in a state disembodied, is proven to demonstra-
j | tion. I will state some cases that are within my own know-
| | ledge. But before I do so I must beg the indulgence of
! j those who hear me if I do not in all cases state names and
| | give full particulars. I pledge myself to the exact accuracy
j j of every statement I make, and I will gladly satisfy any one
! | who desires it respecting any case, if I can reasonably do so;
| | but I am holden from the publication of names, addresses,
I | and dates in some cases by the knowledge that friends of
| I the departed are still surviving, and that I must respect
j ! their feelings. I have no right to invade the sacred
| I privacy of the memory of their dead even in such a cause as
! I that of the demonstration of perpetuated life after death.
It is now four years since my mind was so greatly vexed
| | on this question that I determined to satisfy myself, or to
I j abandon any farther attempt at intercourse with the world
of spirit. I had not had any evidence of personal identity
on which I could build any argument. No doubt I had had
some, which has since had its full weight in my mind; but
the mass of my communications had been of an impersonal
nature, with spirits who preferred to rest their claims to my
attention on the matter and tendency of their communica¬
tions rather than on the authority of any name, however
great that authority might be. They had passed out of the
sphere of individuality, and chafed at being recalled to it.
I, on the contrary, pined for something definite, some evi¬
dence that would satisfy me that I was dealing with the
spirits of my kind. The angelic was u too high for me. I
could not attain to it.”
For a long time I failed in getting the evidence I wanted.
My state of mind was too positive, and I was forced, more¬
over, to take some pains before I could attain what I desired.
Bit by bit, here a little and there a little, by steps which I do
not detail here, that evidence came, and as my mind opened
to receive it, some six months were spent in persistent daily
efforts to bring home to me proof of the perpetuated existence
of human spirits, and of their power to communicate with
me and give evidence of their unimpaired individuality, and
of the unbroken continuity of their existence. Some of those
who so came I had known during their life on earth, and was
able not only to verify their statements, but also to note
the little traits of manner, peculiarities of diction, or
characteristics of mind which I remembered in them whilst
in the body.f Most were unknown to me, and came, always
at the command of the Spirit who governed the whole course
of spirit action in my case, to give their evidence and go
* Notes of an address delivered last Monday night at the rooms of the British National
Association of Spiritualists. The full text will be shortly published in a little volume
entitled Spirit Identity.
t Vide “ Some Phases of Mediumsliip,” Spiritualist, August 31,1877.
Dec. 20, 1878.
296
their way when the work was done. Of these some came
from the most unlikely sources, and gave me and my friends
no little trouble to verify their statements. Some came at the
time of death. At that time, it would seem, the spirit finds
it easy to manifest its presence ; and the facts that it can give
are readily capable of verification. Some had been long dead, as
men count time, and came back in a dazed and awkward fashion
to revisit the scenes of their former lives. But all impressed
me with a deep sense of earnestness and reality; and
all, without one lonely exception, told the truth about them¬
selves, so far as I could verify their story. There were many
facts that I could verify; a few that, from their nature, I
could not; but none suggested in any way a desire to deceive.
I cross-examined them in every conceivable way, and with a
pertinacity that left nothing untried to elicit facts. Many
of my queries were unanswered, for I asked many that I
could hardly hope to get replies to. But I failed to shake
their story, or, by the most cunning suggestio falsi, to lead
them into misstatement.
I refer for evidence of this to my records, kept with
scrupulous regularity day by day, and corroborated
by independent records kept by another member of
the circle in which these facts were communicated, and I
find that from New Year’s Eve to January 11,1874, during
which time I was staying at Shanklin, Isle of Wight, the
guest of Dr. Speer, we had a continuous chain of testimony
at our daily sittings, all bearing on the question of the
identity of the communicating spirits. The evidence was
given in various ways, principally through raps on the table,
sometimes by direct writing, and sometimes by clairvoyance
or clairaudience. In a few cases corroborative evidence was
drawn from all these sources.
During those twelve days, eleven different cases of
identity were made out by facts and dates. Three of them
were entirely unconnected with any of the persons present. Of
one of them none of us had ever heard in any way. Yet his
name, the place of his residence, and the very name of his
house, his birth-date, and the day of his death, were given
with perfect accuracy. One was connected with Dr. Speer,
five with Mrs. Speer, and two were friends of my own.
Of these last one was a near relative, whom I clearly
remembered as a child; and 1, being at the time
of the communication perfectly free from any abnormal
influence, such as occasionally entrances me while these
phenomena are in process, cross-questioned the alleged
relative at great length. The answers were given through
the means of raps different from any to which we had before
been accustomed. (This, by the way, is a noteworthy fact.
Every spirit has its own rap or method of attracting notice,
and these are as recognisable as the accents of the voice, and
as various.)
I inquired of her minute facts and dates, her birthday,
the day of her death, her children’s names, and, indeed,
such questions on small details as I could think of. I then
asked if she remembered me. as a child. She did. I
then detailed two imaginary incidents, just such as might
occur in a boy’s life, and was stopped at once. She did not
remember anything of that kind, nor could I by any means
get her to waver or admit that I might be right. I had
frequently been told that spirits would assent to anything,
and my pious fraud had as much for its object the demon¬
stration of the fallacy of this assertion as of the identity of
the spirit. I certainly rose from the table convinced that I
had been talking to a spirit who desired to tell the truth,
and who was extremely careful to be exact and precise in
what she said. I verified her statements afterwards, and
found them correct.
During this same period came three near relatives of Mrs.
Speer’s, and gave full evidence of their identity. One of
them had before manifested in another way through a public
medium, showing his face and a peculiarly delicate hand,
which was a characteristic of him in earth life. Another
had attempted to show himself at the same time, but had
failed to obtain recognition. He had followed me, and
manifested his presence at a circle at Mrs. Gregory’s, where
no one knew him; and I only found out the fact of his
having done so by the merest accident. I was looking over
a book in which records of her stances were kept, and I
found a note of his having announced his name, with a
remark that he had taken the opportunity of drawing my
attention to his having shown his presence on the occasion
before referred to. I was entranced, and the circumstance
had not been mentioned to me, or I had forgotten it. Here,
again, for the third time he made his effort and succeeded.
Apparently content, he has passed from our ken, and we
have seen him no more.
In The Spiritualist of August 31st, reference is made to
the appearance of an old lady who had but just been freed
from the body, and who, as she said, had been enabled by
prayer and loving sympathy to raise her husband, long
prisoned in the sphere of earth, to a higher state. When she
departed, he was permitted to accompany her, and the two
were reunited. That husband manifested his presence during
this same period of eleven days. He came with the strangest
and most uncomfortable sound; sometimes like a whirring
in the air, sometimes like a harsh grating on the table, each
equally suggestive of unrest. The atmosphere around the
spirit was similarly indicative of unhappiness, and he
earnestly asked for prayer. He had been a grasping man;
gold had been his god, and he had lived on to find himself
bound by golden fetters to the earth where his treasure
was. I have no words to describe the sensation of cold dis¬
comfort that his presence brought. Yet he had not been
what the world calls an evil-liver, nor neglectful of his
duties. On the contrary, in his hard mechanical way he had
been punctual and exact in their discharge, but his spirit
had been starved, and he awaited the time when the simple,
loving spirit, who on earth had been his companion, should
rejoin him and infuse some spiritual life and vigour into his
cold and cheerless existence. I think none who witnessed
the painful reality of his manifestation would entertain any
doubt as to his identity.
He had first been attracted to me from my having visited
his grave. There was some link between him and his body’s
resting-place. I do not understand how or why, but the fact
has been demonstrated in my experience repeatedly, until
I have come to accept the fact, without understanding the
reason for it, that the presence of a medium near the grave
or place of death will frequently attract an earth-bound
spirit, and even recall one that is not tied to this lower
sphere. This was the case with the man who met his
death through being crushed by a steam-roller, recorded in The
Spiritualist of March 27th, 1874. This was the case when
Dr. Speer and I, then on an excursion in the North of
Ireland, visited an old disused burial-ground at Garrison.
There were some curious Runic crosses, and I wanted
sketches of them. We remained a considerable time, and
were greatly shocked at the skulls and bones that we found
lying about in all directions. The result of that visit was
such a disturbance in my bedroom, which was only sepa¬
rated by a thin partition from Dr. Speer’s, that I know he
entertains a lively remembrance of the visit to that grave¬
yard. He has described the sounds as utterly destructive of
sleep. He tried all expedients to still them, but in vain ;
and was greatly aggravated to find me sleeping peaceably
through all the uncanny din that my unconscious mediumship
was enabling these spirits to produce.
Another case occurred during these eleven days which
testified again to the connection between the spirit and the
resting-place of its body. In the course of a walk I had
visited a beautiful churchyard, and had wandered through it.
In the evening came a spirit, an old friend of Mr. Speer’s,
who communicated with much apparent joy, and gave
particulars, clear and complete, of her identity, though (as
I see from my record written immediately after) I was care¬
fully occupying my mind by reciting some passages of
Yirgil while the messages were given through the table. I
may say, in passing, that this is a frequent habit of mine.
I try by every expedient, even by mechanically going
through the multiplication table, to remove the disturbing
element of my own mental action.
The last case I will notice in this period was that of a
person of whom no one present had ever heard. The spirit
was one lately departed. He had been brought, for pur¬
poses of evidence, by the spirit who controlled the circle.
He gave minute facts and dates as to his life, and went his
way. We had some considerable difficulty in verifying the
facts, but finally succeeded in doing so by writing direct to
THE SPIRITUALIST,
297
Dec. 20, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
his surviving relatives. This case has since been exactly !
paralleled in at least twelve other instances, respecting each j
of which I am certain that information was given which j
was entirely foreign to my mind, or to that of any person I
present. The case of Abraham Florentine, published in The j j
Spiritualist, March 19, 1875, may be mentioned in this con- I
nection ; as also that of Charlotte Buokworth, published in j
The Spiritualist, January 21, 1876. !
I pass to a case in which a spirit, who first manifested |
her presence on 4th September, 1872, has remained in per- j
manent communication with us ever since, and has esta- ! j
blished herself as a guardian of one of Dr. Speer’s children, j j
I note this case, because we have the advantage of prolonged j <
intercourse to aid us in forming an opinion as to identity, | !
and because the spirit has not only given unequivocal proof | |
of her characteristic individuality, but has evidenced her |
presence in various ways. This also is a case which goes to |
prove that conscious life once given is indestructible, and |
that the spirit which has once animated a human body, how- !
ever brief its tenure, lives on with unimpaired identity.*
The spirit in question announced herself by raps, giving j
messages in French. She said she was a sister of Dr. j
Speer’s, and had passed away at Tours, an infant of seven !
months old. I had never heard her mentioned; her brother j
had forgotten her existence, for she was born and died before j
his birth. From the time of her first appearance she has j
remained attached to the circle, and her clear, joyous, little |
rap is a never-failing evidence of her presence. It never j
varies, and we all know it at once. She gave her date of I
birth, and also her four names in full. One was a name j
that Dr. Speer did not believe that she possessed, but the |
statement was verified on application to a relative who knew, j
Her quick impulsive taps, and the rapid way in which her j
messages are given, are extremely characteristic of most of j
the family to which she belonged. She has many times |
given direct writing, and is as much one of the family as |
the child whose guardian she has constituted herself.
She has twice manifested her presence on the photo- I
graphic plate. One of these cases was attested by direct j
writing, and both will be found clearly detailed in the course !
of my Researches—chapter on u Spirit Photography”— „ j
published in Human Nature, vol. 8, p. 395.
[Other facts of a similar nature were quoted, and the I
address concluded thus.]
These facts, which I could multiply greatly, I propound as I
establishing two conclusions—most of my friends would say j
more than two ; but I desire to proceed with care. They point— j
1. To the broad fact that intelligence is perpetuated after
bodily death. In other words, they point to a securely laid
foundation (it is nothing more) for the revealed doctrine of !
the immortality of the human spirit.
2. To the conclusion that the human spirit, after its sepa¬
ration from the body which has clothed it on earth, loses none
of its individuality. In other words, they lead to the hope
that we may live after we have departed this life, and that we
shall know and be known to our friends.
These two doctrines, which are integral parts of Christian
revelation—personal immortality and personal recognition—
seem to me to be receiving practical illustration and demon¬
stration from the teachings of Spiritualism. The desire to
live is strong in the heart of man, and the desire to live in
the continued exercise of the affections, which have made the
sunshine of his earthly existence, is hardly less potent and
universal. Those who, in these modern days of scepticism,
tell us that man has no soul, and no future before him, will
tell us that a universal impulse has been transferred to the
pages of revelation, and that man, having fabricated his God
and his heaven, has amused himself with hopes that are the
product of his own brain. We who think otherwise, who
believe that the spirit is the man, and who offer some reason
for adhering to a venerable belief, which, in our opinion, no
modern assaults have damaged, are not likely to undervalue
the testimony which is being day by day brought home to us
on these points. They are to us the foundation of our religious
belief so as it affects ourselves. They do not, and cannot stand
alone, for once recognised, they carry in their train the whole
code of personal religion.
* See some striking evidence on this point in Heaven Opened, by F. J. T. (Harrison, 38,
Great Itussell-street.)
Am I to live on after my body is dead ? Then it concerns
me to know where. It depends greatly on myself. My salva¬
tion must be of my own working out, the imperceptible yet
| perpetual product of the acts and habits of my daily life.
Are my friends not lost but gone before ? Yes, and if I
desire to join them and associate with the pure and good who
I have won my love and admiration here, I must live as in their
I presence, and energise to lead the life that has elevated and
ennobled them. I must live as in the very sight of God, a
| life of self-abnegation, and self-discipline, as one who subdues
j the flesh to the spirit, and subjugates the temporal to the
eternal.
In short, the whole fabric of religion, so far as it affects
man, excluding for the moment the worship due to the
I Supreme, receives its' sanction and stimulus from these doc-
i trines which are becoming integral parts of the daily life of so
| many amongst us. In days when a fading faith has relaxed
its hold on human life, when religion, as a binding power, is
| losing much of its vitalising influence, and becoming less and
less a factor in the formation of the national character, we
! are being, by the mercy of that God whose response is never
| wanting to the aspirations of his creatures, brought face to
| face with the reality of our true spiritual existence.
There are many of us who are fain to cry, “Lord, I
believe ; help Thou mine unbelief,” not because of the pre-
| scription of a time-honoured creed ; nor because of th*e faith
! which our fathers have handed on to us, sadly battered
I and shattered by many a blow from destructive criticism;
II still less because of the dogmas of any ecclesiastical corpora-
i tion ; but because we have seen with our eyes, and have
\ proven by severe methods of logic that dead men live : and
11 because we can argue from their perpetuated life to our own:
j I because we can hope and believe that we shall one day join
| the great company that has preceded us; and because we have
I learned from some of them lessons reasonable, compre-
| hensible, and coherent of life and discipline, which following,
| we may fit ourselves for the progressive life to come.
It is this that constitutes for me the moral beauty of
! Spiritualism. Apart from its religious aspects, viewed as
j mere psychology, I should always regard it with deep interest,
i but it would possess for me none of the far-reaching signifi-
j cance that it now has. Its phenomena impress me with ever-
| increasing wonder, though I am not always grateful for the
II bewilderment they cause me, nor thankful for the prominence
| assigned them by some well-meaning but injudicious friends,
II who mistake the husk for the kernel. The buffoonery that
j | too often passes current for Spiritualism ; the fraud and folly
| that besmirch it ; the unclean things that get mixed up with
j it; the vagaries of the unbalanced minds that are inevitably
I attracted to a new and fascinating subject: these I deplore,
\ I but contemplate without dismay. They are ephemeral, and
11 will live their little life and die. Born of human ignorance,
! nurtured by human folly, they will yield to advancing know-
| ledge and increased sense of responsibility, when the true
| moral significance of the subject is recognised among us.
| And when they are dead, or when men can look through
\\l their foggy atmosphere to the light beyond, it will be seen that
| the moral grandeur of this much-abused Spiritualism rests on
I the firm foundation of knowledge of perpetuated human life,
| whence flow naturally those deductions of our own disem-
! I bodied future, those regulations for our own embodied life
| ! which I have before indicated. Nay, more ! These cardinal
I | principles will be found to be the underlying principles of a
| | revelation which I must still believe to be Divine, though it
I I has been so sorely misinterpreted by man, so grievously adul-
! | terated with human glosses and misconceptions.
I shall be content if, by anything I have now said, I lead any
I | one to think out for himself what in his own life depends on the
! j ascertained presence of that ‘ ‘ Intelligent operator at the other
] I end of the line.”
Mr. J. T. Rhodes, of 26, Albert-street, Edinburgh, writes that Mr.
Alexander Duguid, of Kirkcaldy, will give a trance seance in Edinburgh
on Friday next, December 27th.
Papers for the Times says that changes in the mere mechanism of
society are of no avail without corresponding changes in the social
units ; that the well-being of society depends considerably more on the
well-doing of individuals than on the particular form of government
which may prevail; and that the chief essentials of individual well¬
doing are strict self-discipline and culture.
298
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 20, 187&.
pmtg.
SWEET ADVENT BELLS.
Stanzas for Music.
BT J. T. MARKLET.
Waft on ! wild winds of night,
The mellow voice of those sweet advent bells,
Sustain their music thro’ the woods and dells
Amid eve’s frosty light!
Catch up the wintry strain,
And cease your melancholy sigh, ye pines!
Let forests have one note, in their confines,
And laugh with hope again!
0 ! holy lisp of sound!
From hoary towers which buried centuries knew:
New melodies send forth, or now pursue
A gladness more profound.
Inspire the isles,—and wake
White passion’s frenzy in God’s children now :
Give rapture to the heart, and make men vow
They will not Christ forsake!
Prepare the noble soul
For greater joy upon that grander mom,
When Judah’s later king and lord was born
The nations to control.
From mountain convents ring,
From awful heights pour down the quick’ning plea;
Break into urgent hallow’d harmony,—
New consolation bring.
Combine with evening gales
To preach the yearly parable, and spread
The hope on which the earlier spirits fed
When on earth’s cheerless trails.
The olden story tell
With broader music, sweeten’d to the time :
Blend birthday notes with voices from each clime,
And with deep progress,—swell!
Then will each soften’d peal,
Charm stony hearts to duty’s higher deeds :
The soul enlarge the love, on which it feeds,
And truth, men’s anguish heal.
Pure nightfall chimes ! ring on !
Assuage the harsher cry of creeds, and hate :
Ring in the joyous morn we contemplate,
Bid gloom and doubt be gone.
3, Park-terrace, Horsham.
©ormponuence.
[ Great jrtzdom is given to correspondents^who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.1  
DR. MONCK.
Sir,—I have observed from time to time inquiries made in The
Spiritualist as to Dr. Monck’s state of health and present residence,
and I therefore think that a few lines giving the required information
may be acceptable to many of your correspondents and readers.
Dr. Monck has been staying with us here ever since he accompanied us
from London last April. We had great hopes that perfect quiet in such a
healthy and beautiful country as this is in summer, combined with the total
abandonment of all stances or other exercise of his extraordinary medial
powers, would have restored him to his usual good health. This, how¬
ever, I regret very much, has not been the case, and I fear that the
abnormal strain upon his vital powers, and the consequent exhaustion
caused last winter in London by the unparalleled materialisations
which then occurred through him in our private circle, as well as in
other houses, has caused irreparable injury to his health. These won¬
derful materialisations were observed on different occasions by at least
forty competent witnesses, many being sceptics, and including princes,
professors, clergymen, medical men, &c.
It would appear that such materialisations as these—when the grand and
stately form of the Oriental Mahedi was evolved gradually from the mag¬
netic or psychic cloud issuing from Dr. Monck’s left side, and remained,
just as a living man, in intimate association with our circle for half an
hour or more, without any cabinet, in sufficient gaslight, in the salon of
my house, with Dr. Monck in the same room, awake and in his normal
condition—involved too great a loss of vitality to take place, even for a
few times, without serious injury, much less to be persevered in. When
I call to mind all that occurred with the Mahedi during these seances,
together with the unique fact, which neither before nor since has ever
occurred, so far as I am aware, viz., that of another materialisation (of
the spirit Alice) being formed in a similar way out of the mysterious
flesh-forming cloud-mist issuing from the Mahedi’s side, there being
thus two abnormal living beings with us, at the same time, in our own
salon, along with Dr. Monck in his normal state, I cease to wonder at
his health having been so seriously injured.
This new and until then unheard-of strain upon life, combined with
Dr. Monck’s previous sufferings, mental and bodily, under an unjust and
infamous sentence of imprisonment, brought about by the malice of low
enemies—some of them under the mask of Spiritualism and friendship
*—and made possible by the crass ignorance of English juries and magi¬
strates upon any scientific inquiry such as this, and also—alas!—by the
equal ignorance of most of our English judges, upon all subjects except
the absurd technicalities of English law, has been too much for our
friend’s health, and has made him one of the numerous victims offered
up by the ignorant and wicked of all ages upon the altar of truth.
For the last few weeks Dr. Monck’s health became worse, one lung,
I fear, being seriously diseased; he is expectorating blood, and we were
wishing it were possible for him to go to a warmer climate than that of
Switzerland for the winter. As if by some providential interposition,
Dr. Monck just then received the kindest invitation from Professor
Damiani to go to Naples, and spend the winter there as his guest. He
accordingly left this on the 13th November, and we have had a telegram
from him announcing his safe arrival in Naples, after a long journey of
eight days, made necessary by his ill-health.
I need scarcely add, after what I have already said about
Dr. Monck’s state of health, that ever since he has been with us, his
medial powers have been entirely suspended, and that our invitation
being given entirely out of respect for his character and personal
friendship for himself, with a view to the restoration of his health, we
have conscientiously abstained from even attempting a seance.
During the summer Dr. Monck received many applications from
persons of influence and station to go to them for the purpose of
holding seances, but it was impossible for him to accede to their
wishes ,* among others he received pressing invitations to meet Pro¬
fessor Zollner, and other German savants, and from the editor of an
important French newspaper, and only yesterday, I received a letter
from Mons. Leymarie, of Paris, wishing me to arrange with Dr.
Monck to go there for a series of seances; but that too, although very
desirable if his health had permitted, is altogether impossible. In
short, he has had to decline invitations from all parts of the world ;
from all which it appears that a genuine medium’s popularity is
powerfully enhanced by persecution.
I may also add that I have read numerous letters inviting him to
become the non-professional guest of friends of position—such as
Prince George of Solms—with a view to rest and restoration of
health.
Mrs. Cranstoun and I have now had the benefit of nine months
intimate acquaintance with Dr. Monck in our own house as a member
of our family, and this, I believe, affords the best opportunity of form¬
ing an accurate opinion of character. With such means of judging I
can only say that the more we have seen of Dr. Monck, and the more
we have observed and gauged his qualities of mind and heart, the
more we admire him and the higher we esteem him. In our opinion
he is one of those natures so rare in all ages, but especially in the
present selfish materialistic one—a nature distinguished by utter un¬
selfishness, and animated by an innate desire to give up everything
for any cause which he believes to be true, and likely to benefit
humanity.
We have parted from him temporarily with great regret, and with
the hope that he will again visit us in the spring with restored health,
so that he may be permitted to exercise his extraordinary powers in a
yet higher degree in London and elsewhere for the benefit of the
world. A. J. Cranstocn.
Lucerne, Switzerland, November 21st, 1878,
THE pEVELOfMBM OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
Sir,—It is not out of place to call to mind, at the present juncture,
the fact that form materialisations, as well as almost every other species
of spiritual manifestation, as I propose to show, preceded by some
years through the experiments of the great mesmerisers of France,
the more general wide-world efflux of Spiritualism emanating from
America, and which last has now been astounding, frightening,
scandalising, and comforting humanity, in the four comers of the earth,
during the last thirty years or more. It is not, then, to spontaneous
spirit visitation at Hydesville, but to mesmerism and induced somnam¬
bulism in France, that we are first indebted, during the present century,
for this fresh spiritual air-vent of psychological phenomena, including
in its category materialisation. Not so, but to that subtle physio¬
logical influence, with its answering spiritual intelligence, concerning
which Mr. Serjeant Cox, in his last sessional address on the Claims of
Psychology, most truly said thattf if any person can examine these
phenomena without having his faith in materialism shaken, he must be
prepossessed indeed—a veritable victim of a predominant idea.” So
then the sin, if any, of originating this profoundly significant, but,
alas! sometimes tricksy, attribute of Spiritualism, manifested by
materialisations during the present century, must be laid to the door of
the mesmerists in France, not to the efflux from America, proof of
which I am about to give. But it is well, in the present day, to have
this additional evidence of the fact that materialisations do positively
occur, if mesmerists are to be credited, because, as Mr. Serjeant Cox
so justly also affirms, “ A fact cannot be combated by an argument.”
Not the least curious and interesting, yet most natural, result as
regards the experiences of these great French mesmerists, is the
wonderment which seized them on discovering, during their mani¬
festations, their own wondrous powers, and these extraordinary faculties
of their subjects, as well as their secrecy and hesitation in imparting
to each other even their discoveries, till impelled by the gravity of the
situation one stealthily communicates to another his mighty secrets,
only to find from him also a faltering acknowledgment of the same or
like experiences.
We are greatly indebted in this case, as we are in so many others, to
the research of Mr. Howitt. In the Spiritual Magazine of July,
1868, Mr. Howitt tells us that, on the 24th June, 1831, M. Billot, the
mesmerist, wrote to his brother in the art, M. Deleuze, expostulating
with him for his reserve concerning “ the marvellous things of which
he had been a witness during the thirty or forty years of his mesmeric
experience.” To this Mr. Deleuze replied, on the 9th of July, 1831,
“ that he had designedly avoided the statement of marvellous facts.”
Billot then went on much further with his cautious correspondent.
Dec. 20, 1878.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
299
“ The time,’’ said M. Billot, “ is come when I ought to have no further
concealment from you. I repeat that I have seen and known all that it
is permitted for man to see and know. I have been witness of an
ecstasy, not such as Dr, Bertrand imagines, but I have seen mesmeric
clairvoyants with stigmata. I have seen obsessions and possessions,
which have been dissipated by a single word. I have seen many other
things which others have seen also, but which the spirit of this age has
not permitted them to reveal. I am an esprit-fort, and that which the
priests have not been able to do now for many years, mesmerism has ac¬
complished. The truths of religion have been demonstrated by it.”
He then proceeds to relate some of these revelations, which very
much resemble the teachings of the ancient philosophers, mingled with
those of Christianity—doctrines which prepared the way for the inculca¬
tions of Spiritualism. Superior intelligences, he says, presented them¬
selves, presided at seances, and manifested themselves by the delicious
odours which they diffused around them. The ambrosia of the
mythologists, the odours of sanctity of the Church were discovered to
be realities. Evil and unclean spirits also presented themselves; but
the clairvoyants immediately recognised them.—(July 23, 1831). These
and other statements, M. Billot says, which he extracted from the
journals of the stances, could never have seen the light of day, had he
not deemed it for the interest of the great science to confide them to the
bosom of prudent and discreet friendship ; and on the 9th September
he announces that he is about to proceed to more substantial
proofs of the apparition of spirits, such as, he says, it will be impossible
to deny or diminish; for these spirits were tangible ; you both saw and
touched them. Perhaps, he adds, M. Deleuze may think these things a
little too marvellous for belief; but his doubts will no longer be pardon¬
able when he may touch them himself, and touch them again. What,
he says—on September 30th—must convince the most sceptical, there is
neither illusion nor vision, he and his co-secretaries have seen and felt,
and he calls God to witness the truth of it.
To the above M. Deleuze replied that, “ Personally he had not seen
facts equal to those cited by M. Billot. Nevertheless, persons worthy
of all confidence have made like reports to him.”
Thus we see that, some time before full materialisations occurred in
England, Mr. Howitt had brought to light these marvels as having
occurred in France in 1831, and before that. Whole materialisations, I
repeat, or, at any rate, more than hands and arms; for we are told that
“ these spirits were tangible—you both saw and touched them.” That
is, these spirits. But although whole materialisations had not occurred
in England when Mr. Howitt wrote the above, form materialisations had
been, nevertheless, before that time promised by the spirit John King.
I turn back to the Spiritual Magazine of January 1808, and cull the fol¬
lowing from Mr. Benjamin Coleman’s very valuable notes of Passing
Events, in which he says, “ John King has said that he will give us a
surprise some day soon. ‘We expect to be able,’ he said, ‘to show our¬
selves and talk to you.’ ‘ What prevents you doing so now ? ’ I have
asked. ‘We have not found the exact conditions, but we shall; I am
always trying.’ ”
It was about this time that the writer of this heard the same promise
while at a seance with the Marshalls, but he thought it so improbable
that he did not put it down in his notes of the seance. Those notes are
lost, and the date cannot be given. Scrutator.
which assure them both of spirit and body, thus confirming the Scrip¬
tures which contain the thoughts of men from long past ages—must not
fight about “ ideas,” but must ever seek earnestly to preserve united in
one that which others are indifferent about severing. Mind and body,
on spirit and soul, having once been united, let not man put them
asunder, either in thought or deed. ” I am that I am ” is our parent;
and as the child partakes of all the nature of the parent, though it
may manifest that nature in different proportions, so making new
qualities, though the fundamental essences are the same, so is it one,
and is but an extension of the illimitable “ I am.” Jesus came to mani¬
fest illimitable life in flesh when He proclaimed Himself to be an evi¬
dence of the future state or resurrection, to which all the Jews were
looking, and still are looking. Men rose up and slew Him to disprove
His claims to immortality in flesh; but the day for the new develop-
I ment having dawned seven hundred years before He was born, the grave
could not hold Him, and he reappeared in flesh and bones, saying
“ handle me and see.” And when man will believe in the divinity of
His being, which Jesus taught, and not cling so fondly to the humanity,
he will know himself to be the Son of the same substance with the
Father, full of power and truth, possessor of eternal life.—Yours for
truth and in truth. E. T. Matheson.
16, South-street, Grosvenor-square.
TUB BOOT AND SOUL.
Sir,—It may interest some of your readers, who like to find agree¬
ment between the ancient Scriptures and the new thoughts and revela¬
tions of the present age, that in the Hebrew text of Gen. ix. 4, 5, the
same thought is to be found as expressed by Jacob Bcehme, quoted in
your issue of the 6th by A. J. Penny, viz., that “ the soul, together with
its blood and water, is in the outward blood and waterfor, literally
translated, we find—“ Assuredly thickness (flesh) in soul and blood and
not cross consuming, and assuredly atha-blood you to soul cross you
vaporous mist first-flowing power all living, vapour first extended and
flowing power 'Adm? ”
When we dig deep into the mine we find the hidden treasure, and
there is a mine of wealth to be found alone in the one word “ Admf
translated “ Man ” in many passages of our English version; by which
translation a veil has been cast over the hidden truth, for the word man
is used to denote sex, whereas in * Adm ’ (who was brought forth out of
” Hadmhf most erroneously translated “ ground ”) there is no sex, as
it denotes the dual substance of Ad, vapour, and I)m, blood, the water
and blood of the Nephesh, or soul. Though it is male in relation to its
mother Admh, the “ H ” in Hebrew as a termination indicating the
feminine gender.
Captain Burton will pardon me for saying he is mistaken as to the
writer of Genesis not recognising the soul, and being content with the
Ruach, for though pre-eminence is given to the Ruach, as presiding over
all evolution, Gen. i. 1, it is most distinctly written in Gen. i. 20, “ And
projected upwards goddesses, swarms, and multitudinous swarms soul
(Nephesh) living.” And in Genesis ii. 7, ‘‘And was Adm to soul living.”
Six times the Nephesh is mentioned in the two first chapters of Genesis,
in connection with the bringing forth of all the living, the Adm included.
Whilst the Ruach is not again mentioned until Gen. vi. 3, where it is
written, “ And projected upwards, Jehovah not understanding Ruach in
Adm to understand, in error became thick ” (flesh). So in that day the
Spirit is withheld.
It is also a mistake to say that the writer of Genesis did not recognise
Atma, for she is most distinctly referred to in conjunction with the
evolution of the greater and lesser light. And Athma is set in the
expansion to give light to the earth; and in the 27th verse we find god¬
desses bringing forth “ Atha (the Adm) in his image; in images god¬
desses brought forth Atha his male, and female brought forth Athma.”
Whilst the teaching of theologians tends to exalt the spirit above the
body, and that of materialists to exalt the body above the spirit, even to
the denial of spirit, Spiritualists—who have the evidences of their senses,
Sir,—Mr. H. G. Atkinson says, in The Spiritualist of December
13 th, commenting on the psychology of that wondrous play of Macbeth,
“ Further on we have the ghost of Banquo, only seen by Macbeth
—quite another kind of ghost from that of Hamlet’s father.” I
would remind Mr. Atkinson that, if the ghost was seen by Hamlet,
and also by the soldiers, on the platform, before the Castle of Elsi¬
nore, as a materialised ghost, quite another kind of ghost to that of
Banquo, yet in the scene of the Queen’s Closet, the ghost of Hamlet’s
father came to the ,plairaudient and clairvoyant medium Hamlet, as the
ghost of Banquo came to the medium and seer, Macbeth, and was only
seen by Hamlet:—
Queen.—Alas, how is’t with you
That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
And with the incorporal air do hold discourse ?
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
Starts up and stands on end. 0, gentle son,
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look ?
Hamlet.—On him, on him ! Look you, how pale he glares !
His form and cause conjoin’d, preaching to stones
Would make them capable. Do not look on me ;
Lest with this piteous action you convert
My stem effects: then what I have to do
Will want true colour ; tears perchance for blood.
Queen.—To whom do you speak this ?
Hamlet. Do you see nothing there ?
Queen.—Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Hamlet.—Nor did you nothing hear ?
Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
Hamlet.—Why, look you there ! Look, how it steals away 1
My father, in his habit as he lived !
Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
Queen.—This is the very coinage of your brain ;
This bodiless creation ecstasy
Is very cunning in.
The ghost was clad in armour, “in complete steel,” with a due sense
of the proprieties, when it showed itself to the soldiers ; but when seen
by Hamlet, in the Queen’s chamber, it came in attire suited for the
occasion.
It may be that seers see as spirits see, and what is objective to them
is called subjective by those who can only see on the material plane,
and therefore cannot, perhaps, realise second sight, for spirits surely see
each other! Just as the unmitigated blessing of physical seeing can
only be properly understood by him who has the practical use of it, and
cannot be even idealised by the blind man; so, perhaps, the only
persons who can at all realise that mitigated blessing here, the gift of
clairvoyance, are the seers themselves. Clairvoyance is, I believe, not
necessarily either “ a false creation ” or “ a coinage of the brain,” I do
not think Shakespeare thought so. W. R. Tomlinson.
I !
PHYSICAL AND SPIRITUAL GROWTH.
Sir,—Does not the pleasant paper in last week’s number of The
Spiritualist, under this head, allow too little distinction, perhaps,
between life and death ? Why is there any visible corporeity at all if
its relations (soul and spirit) can persist equally whole without it 1 Is
not the dynamic tension maintained by the attraction of the sensorium
throughout its organs 1 What becomes of the reactionary force when
this attraction ceases 1 How can the circulatory tension be persistently
maintained unless, indeed, there has been previously established within
and by some interruption of present relations, a superior and independent
interaction, a new tissue of relations ready to take place of the perish¬
able ultimate whence they are prone to depart ? Such a re-establish¬
ment or rehabilitation of life, such a new sensorium tabernacle or
principal one sense—as Aristotle calls it—was clearly and constantly
imputed by the philosophers and religious teachers of past times to
regenerate souls. And for such as have, or are supposed to have,
attained to a spiritual foothold of this kind within the pale of this
existence—by voluntary self-effacement, and through a faithful process
of co-ordination to the Divine law thereby revealed'—spiritual growth
may be consistently predicated; even after the mortal house of this
tabernacle is dissolved, there would be the prerequisite building, a
living symbol already prepared to work and draw by a free relation an4
eternal hope on from glory to glory, as the Apostle shp^vs.
300
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 20, 1878.
The term regeneration, however, with many others appertaining to
it, has a very modified acceptance in these days, since there remains so
little, if any, experience adequate to the original claim.
  An Old Inquirer.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—On Saturday, the 7th inst., I attended the semi-public seance at
Mr. Williams’s, and when sitting at a considerable distance from him,
under the usual stringent conditions of all hands joined, John King
showed his face close over me, then led my hand to his beard, and
allowed me to give a hearty pull to it. The resistance felt like that of
a beard of natural growth. 0. Reimers.
PSYCHOGRAPHIC PICTURES.
Sir,—The pictures described by Mr. William White in your issue of
Dec. 6th are now on view on the walls of our reading-room, of which
they form a most attractive feature. It would be well if the combined
efforts of the friends of Spiritualism were successful to keep them
there.
In addition to the £5 each subscribed by Mr. Blackburn and Mr.
Tebb to the fund for purchasing the pictures, and presenting them to
the Association, I have received the promise of £5 from our president,
Mr. A. Calder. E. Kislingbury,
Secretary British National Association of Spiritualists.
38, Great Russell-street, London, Dec. 17, 1878.
SPIRITUAL TRIADS,.
Strange that when the world is rife
With gnawing care and troublous strife,
We should so strongly cling to life !
When in this changeful scene below,
Nought from day to day we know
Certainly, but pain and woe.
Though we live in doubt and dread,
Hope has never wholly fled:
Silk still mingles with our thread.
Golden Love is ever nigh—
Beauty dwells in woman’s eye,
And, too often, perfidy.
When affliction’s torrents roll,
And doubts into the heart have stole,
Doth not Friendship soothe the soul ?
In the hour of woe and fear,
With Destruction frowning near,
Friends, when needed, disappear.
God in childhood best we read,
Guileless thought and sinless deed ;
Growing older, we recede.
Only on that holier state,
When World is weak and Nature great,
True affection can await.
When in youth two spirits blend,
What the golden chain can rend—
Find its boundary or end ?
Childhood’s transitory pain,
Brings to love a greater gain—
Drawing close that golden chain.
By the world’s bad breeding nurst
To a manhood stained and curst,
Defiling what was bright at first.
The sick soul toiling thro’ the scene,
Like stars beholds love that has been—
Never reached, yet ever seen.
For ambition, power, and gold,
Multiplied a thousandfold,
Heart-contentment cannot hold.
Rule we city, palace, fane—
Stretch our power o’er land and main—
Where the profit, what the gain ?
Strange, then, since the world is rife
With gnawing cares and troublous strife,
We should so strongly cling to life !
Why is Death to fancy shown
With the withered skull and bone
Of a ghastly skeleton ?
Know ye not, O blind and dull,
How exceeding beautiful
Death the spirit is to lull?
And that only that Repose—
Mail of proof ’gainst cares and woes—
Change or sorrow never knows!
Age’s lapse and tempest’s stress
Ne’er with wrinkle could impress
That eternal Loveliness.
And as Day is but a pale,
Weak, and motley-coloured veil,
That, like a thin cloud’s fleeting sail,
But seeks to hide from mortal sight
The depths so purely clear and bright,
Of the all-mother, ancient Night,
So Life is but the shroud of Death;
As the wise man of old time saith,
True life begins when ends the breath.
If we with birth did not begin,
Perchance we may again rest in
The perfect state without a sin.
Ethereal imprints long uprolled,
Of wondrous worlds and lives of old,
A bright page sometimes half unfold ;
Else why this hate of earthly jars,
Longings to burst these mortal bars
And pierce the void beyond the stars ?
And when at sunset we behold
The clouds of crimson barred with gold
Across the western gateway rolled,
Why seem we, as like kings they rise
So splendour-crowned, to recognise
Forms once familiar to our eyes ?
Like dim memories half forgot,
Of some long-deserted spot,
We knew in youth when sin was not.
By quitting earth’s encumbering dirt,
If we can reach with soul unhurt
Our ancient dwellings glory-girt.
If through the grave we can attain
The steadfast Light without a stain—
How great in dying is our gain!
Cease we then to look upon
Death with horror—breast is none
Softer than hers for labour done.
Ye whose life is girt about
With anguish, terror, gloomy doubt,
And the cares that watch without—
Know how happy ’tis to die;
Come ! as frightened children fly •
On their mother’s breast to lie!
  W.
British Museum Lectures.—Dr. Carter Blake, Lecturer on Compa¬
rative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital, will deliver three lectures in
the Zoological and Antiquities Departments of the British Musum (by
permission of the authorities) on Tuesday, Jan. 7th, Saturday, Jan.
11th, and Tuesday, Jan. 14th, between the hours of eleven and one.
The offices of the National Association of Spiritualists at 38, Great
Russell-street, London, will be closed during the Christmas vacation
from Tuesday, December 23rd, to Saturday, December 28th inclusive.
On and after Monday, December 30th, the offices will be open between
the hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all weekdays except Satur¬
day, when they will be open between the hours of 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.—
E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens,
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Vay (Countess Wurmbrand)
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
rThe Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
THE SPIRITUALIST
111
Dec. 20, 1878.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
r" BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
BESEAROHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Orookes, E.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Hr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals twere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist" was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
*. d.
0
6
6
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . , .15
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . .7
The Teacher. „ II. „ , • .7
The Seer. „ III. „ ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . • .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ • • . • •. • 7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . - . • .76
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .70
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . • • .20
Death and the After-Life . . . • • .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . • .36
Harbinger of Health , . .1 . • .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . , . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; ContainingIlarmonialAnswers . . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . , .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Herves . . .70
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . . 3 0
Morning Lectures . . . • • • .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 21 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spibitcalist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . ... . 50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my.Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen , 7 0
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind.; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . , . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 e
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500/or Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
now to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who stafe authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,”
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj- Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Orookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”-—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
. CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wituesses—Medlumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV Materialisations in England—Medlumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Medlumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbm-y — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumslup of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—^Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief In God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt-
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—^Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER,
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnagejpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. II.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sei.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The N ature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sei., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv. ,
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.,,•
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon) ’) and is one of me
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given'
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium¬
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:'
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life oj Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals.
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marry at.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Bume.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sei., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVllI.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Os.on.”
XXXV The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction, iiy Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Naiural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harris on.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massoy.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G. S.
XLV—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE ARD
VARIETIES—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 20, 1878,
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
PUBLISHED QUARTEBLY.
OCTOBER.
CONTENTS:—
I. —Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II. —Astrology, Ancient and Modem.
III. —Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
IV. —Immaterialism at Brussels, By J. O. Earle.
V. —Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VII.—Pilgrimages; in France. No. III.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bohme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supematuralism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
►SYCHISCHE STUDIED. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
IN thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not), they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,’’ and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, ‘ * If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? " Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two stances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
vfiry sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part l.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbelrbewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joel”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21, A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such-lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji's narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years....
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobolejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Bigvm)
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lay 's.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); A.M. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it Is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with tbe true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume fl-om the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or anv
of those merry souls who do quite as much good- in their day ana
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abqundlng in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
• From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in tbe columns of this paper a short time ago.
and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,'' but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind fbem.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.’’
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 8d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—^Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER IIj—-Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—^Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—^Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations: of
Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance-Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Wriking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub-.
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S iiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Distinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It. —
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—^Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism.,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Suhiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced oy Passss, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water •
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy- .
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding'
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, Lend 5n, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Londc n, E.O.
