Eegistebed as a Newspapeb.
1
ll^bs^rtpr ormudefr toit^ S^hitealxsm m (&xml §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimonf. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 3ig, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
in
0^ f)$Yd&oi<OG{;id$i<
No. 334. (Vol. XIV.—No. 8.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©ontems.
Miss Faneher’s Clairvoyance    ...25
“ Spirit Drapery.” By Charles Blackburn  25
Man Immaterial and Moral. By the Rev. George Blenoowe 25
The Heathen Idea of the Soul. By Epes Sargent 28
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting
of the Council     29
Psychography ... •...  •   80
Sutta Nipata   ... ... 30
Farewell to Earth. (Poetry.)  ... 81
Correspondence :—The Influence of the Sitters upon Mani¬
festations—The Two Brains—Spiritual Phenomena in
Germany—The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism—
Healing Mediumship    32
To Launcelot. By Florence Marryat. (Poetry.) 35
Mr. Lambelle at Ladhroke Hall 36
Paragraphs:—British Museum Lectures, 27; Private The¬
atricals, 29; Spiritualism in America  29
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS
At the Offices of the Association.—On and after the 30th
December, 1878, the offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be
open between the hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all
week-days, except Saturday, when they will be open between
the hours of 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETING.
The usual Fortnightly Meeting will be omitted on Jan. 6th.
On Monday, Jan. 20th, a paper will be read by Mr. W. H.
Harrison, entitled “Hauntings.”
On Friday, Jan. 10th, Soiree Committee, at 5 p m.
On Tuesday, Jan. 14th, the ordinary Council Meeting will be
held at 6.30 p.m., preceded by the sitting of the Finance Com¬
mittee at 6 p.m.
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE
Holds its sittings every Friday, at 6.30 p.m., unless adjourned
by order of the chairman, or by vote of the committee at its
previous meeting. E. Kislingbuby, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present fime,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ;> His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston/ U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital • Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. flonywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
nury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles’(United" States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. 10d.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josdfstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOfflce, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. ■ Post free, 7d. • or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Eyening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-boad, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. SBC.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following engagements:—Perry Barr Institute,
December 3,1878 ; New Swindon Mechanics’ Institute, January
8,1879. Coalbrookdale Literary Institute, January 21 (Second
time this season). Hastings, Gensing Hall, Afternoon and
Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial Society, February
4. Leamington Institute, February 25. Croydon Literary
Institution, March 6 (2nd time). Favourable terms arranged
with Institutes en route. For particulars address Mr. Frank
Dietz, 54, Denbigh Street, London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland
Street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
January 15th, 1879, February 12th, March 12th, April 9th, May
14th, June 11th. Tickets for the Series One Guinea each.
The Religion of Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVEBY SUNDAY EYENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. 4. January. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion ? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. O. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V. —Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield,
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM ; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers. — This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.T.G. A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6|d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS. 1
SESSION, 1878-9.
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings."
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.’’
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
Circle, No. 3.”
April 21.—Mr. C. C. Massey. “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.. “ Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June - 2.) of any sub jects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, F.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fcc.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCKSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
,StovC and Range Maker,
' 1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings.
EIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particula rs on anplickrtou.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIBITUALIST,
Jan. 17, 1879,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex.Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
B'arkburn. Obarleo, Parkfleld, DIdsbury, Manchester.
Coleman. Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas, Tinner Norwood.
citz-Oeral'1, Mrs . 19, Cambriflge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Eitz-GeraM, Desmond G-, M.s.TeI.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Greg'»ry,Mrs. Makdoorall.SI, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.It.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, F,.C
Mas«ey, C. 0 , Barrister-at-Law, Haascourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.O.
"Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, StanhoneTempleman.M.D.,Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-
rnad. South Hampstead, N7W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaoe, Hyde-park, W.
Connell.
Adsbead, W P., Derby House. Belner.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beehy, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. 1
Blnney, F A.. 24, St Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bouwtck, J., F.R.G.S.
Chapman, .Tohn. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Tims., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Blaok-
heath, S.E.
Dswe, N. Fabyan, 5, Ponman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Fernands, T. H . 7. Oherstein-road. New "Wandsworth, S.W.
Fills, Mrs., 59. Tufnell-park-road. Holloway, N.W.
Enn, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton. R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald. Mrs. D. G.. fi. Akerman-road. Rr'xton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New .Southgate, N.
Croon. G. F., Hale Cottage. Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H-, 38. Great Russell-street.
Havle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. De'amere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Barf, Lamnort-hall, Northampton.
.Toad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon. S.W.
Lament, .Tohn, 199, London -road. Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred F., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Benuers-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-^treet, W.C.
Mar oh, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, .T J., Elm Tree,-terrace, TTttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stamton. M.A.. Hniversitv College, NW.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, ‘Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
. Newton, W., n, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill. W. C„ 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reirrers. Christian, 47, Morning*on-’-oad Regent’s-park.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Morell. 62. Granville-park, Blaokheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackbeath. S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, C'averton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenne-road,Leamington.
Walbouse, M.-T., 9, Randolnb-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-et., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedr.
Wilson, D. H.. Ar. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-souare. Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H„ i. The Elms. St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Bonbrary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., I, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq, Morell Theobald, Esq.
Bonorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Bonorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
IT. Gustave de Veb, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse. Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Eso., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
■James Mylne, Esq , Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten. San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street. Carlton, Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2B, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2.985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Ciavalroz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres,45t. Maurles Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town,South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre. Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, lljRue de Vienne, Brussels.
i Z, Test, Esq., M.D.. Union Springs. Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A
! Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
; J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
i Loncon, N.W.
i Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste. Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris,
j W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr-jes, Hungary.
I J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
I Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street. Belgrave-road, S.W.
I Dr. R. Hallock, 54. Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
I Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. ,T. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T.Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-Iane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can he attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comjovts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6cL London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pajrt I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom,—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX, The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, "W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
fll, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O,
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
R. J, J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
IVTISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
J-VJL Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E, De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from lp,m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
MAD. ZACHRAU.—The Great American
Natural Clairvoyant and Phrenologist. Consultation
from 12 to 5, at 25, Granville-square, King’s Cross-road, W.C.
MRS. M. G. PARKER, MESMERIC
HEALER and DEVELOPING MEDIUM, 22, Hart-
street, Bloomsbury-square, London. Hours 12 to 6.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-plaoe, Blooms¬
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISM© IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete,
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vi& Boglno, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondd par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every moqth. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socidti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSACHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandke Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science,
price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mctzb. London: The
spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
World! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boeton,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and,scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
RIOHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, II, St. Michael's-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S, T., c^ro of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Coa-
sonnerie, Paris,
l|§|ip xtl tl Ip mb tl jl{ttipiimit$ffi*
Ko. 334.—-Volume Fourteen; Kumber Three.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 17th, 1879.
MISS FANCHER’S CLAIRYOYANCE.
Nearly all the New York daily newspapers are discussing the j
remarkable clairvoyant powers of Miss Fancher, of Brooklyn, j
who for so long a time has been hovering between life and j
death. Some New York medical men, thoroughly ignorant of |
pyschology, are suggesting all kinds of tests. But she has j
been tested for years by medical practitioners who are com- j
petent to deal with the subject, and if the relatives are unwise j
enough to let some of the opponents invade the sanctity of |
private life, and have their own way, the doctors are certain
to kill her by their ignorance. Miss Fancher is an invalid j
subsisting almost entirely without food ; she is spiritually and j
mesmerically sustained, the sympathy and affection of those j
around her having much influence in preventing the snapping j
of the frail thread still holding her soul and body together, j
Some few of her opponents are, from their utterances, evi- |
dently brutal materialists, whose personal presence and psycho -
logical influence, if substituted for that of affectionate relatives,
would act like fire upon the spiritual sensitiveness of a fragile
being like Miss Fancher, producing thereby all the appalling
phenomena of cross mesmerism, as described in the works of
standard writers on the subject. Death would be the certain
result. Physicists and blacksmiths are exceedingly useful men
in their own sphere, but when they would assume authority
in higher realms than their own, their pretensions should be
checked. What they believe or disbelieve is of no importance.
Miss Fancher’s family should religiously lock the doors of
the house against them, and let them howl outside as long as
they please ; the day will be a fatal one on which they are
allowed to enter the doors. Ahull in a ten-acre field is a fine
animal, but when he presumes to authoritatively set up as
manager of a china shop, he has, with the best intentions in
the world, mistaken his vocation. Miss Fancher’s case has
been examined and tested for years by inquirers far more
competent than those who are now objecting, and if the latter
are dissatisfied, there is no earthly reason why they should
not be quietly left in that condition of mind. For a genera¬
tion or two, men of their nature have misled and deceived the j
public about the reality of world-wide psychic phenomena ; the
public should now be told that their authority is worthless, that
they are not admitted to Miss Fancher’s house because of their
utter ignorance, and their incapacity to deal with the pheno¬
mena of psychology. If a prize-fighter announces to the
world that the moon is a cheese, the Astronomer Boyal
neither respects his authority, nor invites him inside Green¬
wich Observatory to go through gymnastic performances with
instruments about which he is thoroughly ignorant. He
simply lets him bluster outside as much as he pleases.
True affections and true motives among those around
spiritual sensitives are necessary for the evolution of truthful
and precise psychic phenomena.
“SPIRIT DRAPERY.”
BT CHARLES BLACKBURN.
My letter from Signor Rondi and Miss Cook says the seance
this week was excellent. Mrs. and Miss Tebb and Lady Coomara
tested, by taking off all Miss Cook’s clothes, and carefully examining
them, and when she redressed, bringing her at once and placing her in
the cabinet chair; then Lillie soon appeared, with heaps of white
drapery, and allowed the examiners, also Mr. Diss and Mr. Green, to go
into the cabinet and feel that Miss Cook was seated in her chair. “ Surely
this settles the drapery subject.” Lillie was observed to be taller than
Miss Cook, but to prove it, Lillie called up Miss Cook from her seat, and
they stood together, showing the observers that Lillie was taller, but
gradually she grew shorter until she vanished, and instantly sprang up
again when Miss Cook went to her chair. Lillie left purposely several
yards of her muslin drapery, on being asked to do so. Much more took |
place which ought to be told or written you by the witnesses, but as !
some people are still timid, I do it for them from my last weekly report, j
I have omitted to say that Miss Cook suffers great exhaustion when the I
form Lillie stops long before the sitters, or has to endure too much j
light; consequently she was ill all next day. I hope the apparatus for j
weighing the mediums and forms is getting perfected without delay. i
MAN IMMATERIAL AND MORAL*
BY THE REV. GEORGE BLENCOWE.
Man is a being of intellect, emotion, and action. Intellect
| perceives conditions, emotion supplies power and direction,
| action is the result. There can be no action without emotion
j and intelligence. But each of these is a predicate which
| cannot be affirmed of matter. Neither of them has weight,
| figure, or dimensions. Action is the application of im-
| material power to material things. Unconscious material
force, which we see in the material universe, can only be the
| effect of emotion, and intelligence out of itself, after the
j same manner as the use of our hands, and the manipulation
| of inert matter by us.
We can conceive of the essence in which intellect, emotion,
and action abide, producing matter in all its combinations
j and imposed conditions ; because all the properties of matter
| are open to our intelligence, and within a wide range we can
| modify form and relative position, and direct and modify the
| primarily imposed forces, as our will—the sum of our emro-
| tions—directs. But we cannot conceive of matter producing
| intellect, emotion, and action, because not only are they
| distinct from every material quality, but they are plainly
| above all material qualities, and rule over them. If we con-
| sider the brain the material instrument of thought, without
| which we can no more think than we can see without the
eye, yet it does not follow that in all cases such an instru-
| ment is necessary, because in dreams, in imagination, and
I memory we see without the eye. The thinking does not
| follow spontaneous pulsations of the brain, but the pulsations
| of the brain follow the will of the thinker, who in the exer-
| cise of his will is not influenced by material qualities, but
! immaterial, although the object in which the qualities reside
| may be material. Besides, the brain and the eye are not
! | self-originated, but are the products of a high intelligence,
; | which we who use them are not able fully to guage, and
' | which must therefore have been in existence before the brain,
[ | and have had entire control over its substance, or this ad-
II mirable instrument of thinking could not have been formed
' so as to serve no other purpose in the animal economy than
! | the maintenance of conscious life.
While in the lower animals we find intellect, emotion, and
) | action bounded by limits more or less narrow, according to
j the position they occupy in the scale of life, we see, on the
| contrary that in man they are without limit; and further,
I that the tendency of human nature and conditions is to their
| unlimited development. All knowledge not only produces a
| desire for more, but by enlarging our mental horizon and
j giving increased quickness and penetration to our powers,
| increases the ability for more. So also with emotion; its
j natural exercise increases its spontaneity, and range, and
j power. And a comparison of human action now and at
11 former times will show that the aggregate has greatly in-
j creased during the past century. Thus, the material bounds
j of immaterial action are pushed farther and farther back,
j and we have now more numerous and more promising open-
ji ings for the extension of our boundaries than existed a
)| century since. In the conditions of humanity we also see
11 scope for unlimited improvement. By the wonderful union
i of our immaterial self with a material body we are' brought
}| into contact with the whole material universe, and can
11 discover its secrets, measure its forces, observe its tendencies,
(j and are only prevented calculating its limits by the feeble-
| ness of our instruments and the paucity of our figures. But
i within our present ken, no student of science supposes that
| he has discovered all the facts within his own line of obser-
I vation, much less the immaterial qualities those facts
I embody. Like Newton, we are on the shore playing with
j the pebbles, with the unexplored ocean of truth before us#
11 * A paper recently read before the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 17, 1879.
Here, therefore, are a nature and conditions which evidently j1
give scope for unlimited progression of intellect, emotion, j “
and action. | j
In the present condition of the relations of man to the j <
physical universe we see abundant proof of his immateriality, j <
No axiom more uniformly applies to matter than that “the ! {
greater contains the less!’'1 As to our bodies, we know its appli- j
cation is universal. They are confined to a minute and com- I
paratively undiscernible spot on the earth from which they j
cannot move, but slowly and with great labour. But, notwith- j
standing this slow and laborious movement of the body, j
which to the universe of matter is but an atom, we have j
within the body an essence which can instantly move to the ends j (
of creation, and which can embrace every part of it. And j
vast beyond all calculation as the universe is, and abounding j
in qualities in an endless diversity of combination, that j; (
inward invisible essence can behold them all, and though j
a new fact may be seen which multiplies many million times i
other facts, so far from feeling a repletion which refuses to j
accept more, the new acquisition has enlarged the ability of j
future acquisition proportionate to its own vastness, and thus j
demonstrates the presence of a power within us limitless as
the universe. But its magnitude cannot be material, nor
can it be measured by any material rule.
Our experience of life shows us that our conscious self is
not the body. Continual decay and restoration is the rule
of all animal life. Every part of the brain, the present in- I
strument of thought, has been changed many times during j
sixty years of life; yet we can look through the sixty years i
and see an unbroken continuity of consciousness. We know ! j
that by means of a body which we have put off many years j |
since, we did things which are as truly our actions as on the !
day they were done. Unless, therefore, the self, the true j
man, were something distinct and differing from the body, j
this could not be. j
All the essential peculiarities of humanity are fixed j
qualities. In the earliest records of human action we see j
intellect and emotion as the cause of action. The same j
qualities and the same order of sequence. Man also has the j
power of accumulation and transmission in each of his own j
special lines. He can go on day by day adding to the |
knowledge he inherited, and transmit it with his own im- |
provements to succeeding generations. So, also, he is able I
to express and fix his emotions in the creations of his genius j
in such a manner as to make them, in the measure in which
they are purely and broadly natural, perpetual fountains
of feeling to all who shall come after him. In like manner
our action is not only the sum of all our intelligence and j
emotion, but also the sum of the intelligence, emotion, and
action of all who have preceded us. This is true both as
previous action restrains and prompts. All this implies that
the essence of our nature differs from that of all other j
creatures, and that the distinguishing peculiarity is, that j
there is an integral connection between the several genera- j
tions and members of humanity, which connection shows j
humanity to be a family or race. This fact is confirmed by j
the emotional judgment of all men, who feel that all other |
men have claims on them as men, and that they owe certain j
duty to them, which duty in some respects differs in kind, and
in all respects, differs in degree from that which they owe to j
any other creatures. !
It is contrary to human experience, both popular and j
scientific, to conceive of life without paternity. But we j
cannot conceive of human life proceeding from an inter- j
minable backward series of paternity, because that life
exhibits the result of the highest knowledge and design both
of matter and spirit. Therefore, in its origin, it can only \
have proceeded from one in whom that knowledge and skill )
were in the largest measure. And, while this follows from (;
the considetation of any individual life, the proof is strength- j
ened and multiplied as the series of succession and de- j
pendence lengthens, and it attains its greatest force when j j
the whole number of men is regarded as one whole, pro- j j
ceeding naturally and lineally from the first man. It must j j j
be remembered that in the successive generations of men, | j
there has been no new point of departure, but the nature |
all through has been as adequate to the individual and j j
collective and relative need, as at the first. It is also with j
respect to this fall and final design that the prior action ’’
of the Creator has taken place. So far as geology speaks
with authority, it teaches that all the former conditions
of the earth were progressive, and that in this final one, not
only has a stable structure been produced, but the graves of
former generations of creatures have become the storehouses
of man, who builds his mansion, procures his food, conducts
his commerce, and measures his wealth by the work and the
wreck of former ages, all of which, but for its own brief
span of life, would have been abortive but for the great
mundane Ruler, who takes, improves, and uses these well-
filled treasuries.
From the above uniformity of the nature and the designed
adaptation of the abode — which design has run through
long epochs of prior operation, we infer the unity of the
author. Had there been different operators, not only would
the general plan have exhibited gaps and contradictions, but
the individual modes of operation would have been diverse.
But we see in the earliest forms of vegetable and animal life
types of the flora and the fauna of the present day, which,
with distinctive but harmonious variety, have been continued
in unbroken succession. Material substance also is seen in
marvellous harmony. The elements into which we resolve
all known matter are few and perfectly mingled ; so that we
can scarcely think of one which could be withdrawn and our
world be complete. From chemical affinity we learn that
this harmony is not merely a quiet juxtaposition of masses,
but that it belongs to every individual atom, which can
leave the side of his natural brother, and by ranging himself
beside a stranger, build up a new structure of use and
beauty. And we have recently learned that this harmony
extends to the stars also, which, according to the report of
the spectroscope, have some at least of the elements of our
earth. We also find that these conditions of matter which
we denominate light, electricity, heat, are universal, and
that no material substance is beyond the limit of their
operation.
We are thus led to the author of our world, of its sub¬
stance, of its division, and of its order; the author also of
the whole stellar universe, who has placed his marks of
uniformity and harmony on all the parts, and bound them
together in the unrupturable bond of gravitation ; as the
author also of man, whose body he has made of the same
substance as the earth, and whose spirit he has endowed
with the same qualities as his own. The resemblance in
nature of the human spirit to the Divine, is evident from our
ability to find his modes of operation, and the qualities and
forces with which he has endowed his creatures ; and espe¬
cially as in all the decisions to which we come on the mode
and order of force, we have to appeal to our own modes of
operation and judgment as the ground of our assurance ; nor
can we conceive of any certainty as possible without such
appeal. Thus, our own nature is the unit from which we
ascend in all our calculation of the Divine. As to intellect,
therefore, man was made in the image of God.
In emotion also we have sameness and reciprocity. The
reason for creation is thus expressed in the Scriptures:
“ Thou hast created all things, and for Thy pleasure they
are and were created.” And as we see the whole of the
repeated acts of creation tending to and perfected in the
creation and consequent career of man, we may look for “ the
delights ” of the Creator “ among the sons of men.” Man is
the only creature on the earth capable of reciprocating the
pleasure and of responding to the delight. We cannot infer
from the infinity of the Creator the absence of delight in man,
because every normal human father has the same pleasure
and delight in the infantile intelligence and emotion of his
child,; and the abandon of that delight is perfect in pro¬
portion to the infantile condition of the child. In the ability
of the infant to recognise the desire to give pleasure, and in
the response, we have the first exercise of intelligence and
emotion. In like manner, man, who in the maturity of his
life is an infant of days before his Creator, is able to discern
the love of the Father of his Spirit, and respond to it in a
grateful and triumphant joy. There is not an emotion of
our nature which is not in the Scripture ascribed to the
great Father, and this ascription is not merely in name, but
we see anger, joy, love, and all other Divine emotions pro¬
ducing the same fruits as do the same emotions in us. And
as the intelligence which is the fountain of human emotion
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
Jan. 17,1879.
is capable of continual increase, so also the emotion may
grow in intensity and breadth, till it a comprehends the
breadth and length, and depth and height of the love of |;
Christ which passeth knowledge, and is filled with all the |;
fullness of God.” And it is not in this direction only, where j!
the object is infinite, that emotion overpowers and employs j;
the whole nature. Fear often paralyses: a triumphant joy |(
prompts to superhuman labour, while a fervent, brotherly j!
love to man consecrates the life to his service. 11
The capability of spontaneous action in the Creator is r
seen in creation, and he has endowed us with a similar |
power of action springing from our apprehension and \\
emotion, and has so constituted us that all our action i
must proceed from our individual determination. If j!
from an abnormal condition of the brain thought |
is interrupted or distorted, and emotion and action
are therefore irregular or absurd, we do not hold the
immaterial self responsible for the faults of the imperfect |
and distorted instrument. Compelled action ceases to
be ours. Under an external coercion we are as merely
instruments as the pen which writes this is the instrument
of the mind which conceives it. We do not say that
another order of being might not be devised in which intelli¬
gence and emotion in a large measure should be possessed |
without the power of self-determination. But we cannot I
conceive these powers existing in a degree approaching to the |
human measure, without the power of spontaneous action, in- |
asmuch as they stand in as true a co-relation to action as |
the eye does to light. We thus learn that another essential j
quality of the Divine nature, agency^ is found in man also.
This leads us to the peculiar relation in which humanity j
stands to the Creator, which over and above that of a creature,
is a relation of sonship. The body of man came from the
elements of the earth, after the same operation of the Divine
fiat as the lower creatures, but He Himself breathed into
man’s nostrils the breath of lives, and thus He became a
living soul. Thus by the mode of production, He became
(e the father, of our spirits ”—our essential selves—and this
fatherhood is the foundation of His government of man.
Fatherhood involves, from the father, support, training, and I
love, and from the child, dependence, submission, docility,
and love. This, we find, to harmonise with the present |
condition of man. We are sustained as to the body, by the j
world, which our father has prepared for us, and which he
upholds and supplies by his constant providence. All our
knowledge—the food of our intellect—is obtained by spelling
out the records of His past acts, and by observing His j
present modes of operation. This is the reality of things, j
Our power of fruitful action is only proportionate to the care j
and exactness with which we copy His own methods of work- j
ing; while in those works of genius, in which we show a
power of immaterial creation we succeed only as we arrange
in new combinations and designs, the patterns of beauty and j
power which he has set us. And the wide range in which j
this order of training and supply operates shows that His I
goodness to us is a truly paternal love.
Still, further to perpetuate and maintain this relation He j
instituted another paternity in Adam ; thus making all men ]
his children, and therefore brethren, sons of one human and j
one Divine Father. These relations sustained by man to man,
and by man to God, give scope for morality, which is im- j
possible to an isolated being. From no specific precept, but i
from his nature, man is bound to regulate his conduct by S
his relations to his brethren, and to his Father. We accord- |
ingly find man, at the first under direct pupilage as a child,
with special instructions from his Father as to the whole
practice which was open to him. And, as a son of God, he
plainly needed this, for his guidance, and, as a means of
showing whether or not he would render the obedience and
submission which his relation to God required. Man’s sin I
was a renunciation of the filial relation, by a violation of the j
submission and obedience which, as a son, he owed to God. j
The filial feeling fled as he took the forbidden fruit, and
could Only be restored by some supernatural intervention.
The sin of Adam was, therefore, as an unfilial, an unnatural
act. But the act was more than unnatural, it was blame¬
worthy. He thus violated all the obligations under which he j
stood to his Divine Father, by despising his instruction and j
command. This blameworthiness he himself felt, and, i
therefore, tried to hide himself among the trees of the
| Garden. But this sense of blameworthiness could not have
| been experienced, unless such relation as have been stated
| really existed. Not only does similar blameworthiness
| belong to every violated obligation, but we are conscious of
I it, and in every instance of such consciousness we affirm the
| above relations.
This brings us face to face with another immaterial fact;
the existence of a faculty in man doing the work of a judge,
by declaring the true moral quality of any proposed action,
j} and by pronouncing a sentence of condemnation when the
| primary judgment has been overridden. This faculty, which
| we call conscience, in its operation as judge, necessarily
implies the existence of the Supreme Ruler, and of our con-
| scious relation to Him. In all judgment there is, and must
be, a law on which the judgment is based, and this involves
| the supremacy of the Lawgiver, and the obligation to submit,
I on the part of those on whom the judgment is passed. And
I as this inward authority of judgment is exercised in many
| cases in which there is no knowledge of an expressed law,
| it can only be a natural tendency, or, a law existing
| in the essence of the nature itself. And although its
| decisions are most frequently given with respect to our
| actions to our fellow creatures, yet as our relations to them
are not of our own choosing, the final appeal in these cases
| is to the author of these relations. In those persons in
| whom the nature is fairly developed, there is in the measure
! of the development a distinct recognition of the original
| source of the authority. And the strongest proof we can
j have of the naturalness of the faculty is that, in those cases
| in which the nature is so degraded that only empirical action
I is possible, that it does not fail even then, but continues as
I long as a vestige of humanity remains. The decisions of
this inward natural judge are in the line of righteousness,
i according to the natural rule which the Lord Jesus expressed,
I “ Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye
| even so to them.” Of which every human conscience per-
j ceives the force.
I It thus appears that from the natural operation of con-
| science, we not only have proof of a Supreme Ruler, but also
I of a Supreme Ruler who is righteous, because all the deci-
| sions of His agent in us are in the direction of righteous¬
ness. And this conclusion cannot be misleading, because
1 not only is it in harmony with the individual nature, but
I also with all the relations in which we stand to others ; so
that society can only exist as in its rules it embodies the
decisions of the individual conscience. If, therefore, we find
in the existence of every stable community a proof of the
Divine, and therefore natural authority of conscience, we
have equally a proof of every one of the steps by which we
have arrived at this conclusion. And d fortiori we have
proof of the immaterial or spiritual nature of man of which
I conscience is an essential part, not only because every opera-
II tion of conscience is an immaterial operation which cannot
| be measured by any physical rule, but also because all the
| qualities and relations which it takes under its cognisance
11 are likewise immaterial.
,! White House, Barnet.
11 British Museum Lectures.—On Saturday last Dr. Carter Blake
l i continued this course, going through the class of birds, and pointing
I out in detail the application of the laws of geographical distribution
l] shown by Mr. Alfred B.. Wallace, F.Z.S. He further considered the
[ I British animals, reptiles, and fishes, with a view to show the vari-
! ability of individual species. On Tuesday last he commenced with
| the Geological Gallery, beginning with the evidence of the fossil foot-
! prints of the Connecticut valley, which were of themselves proof of the
j operation of identical laws and a vastly more|ancient historical period than
| that of the present day. The evidence of tidal flux and reflux of the sun
i and moon having produced the same action on the earth as at the
I present time was cited in detail. The lecturer then introduced his
! old master, the venerable English comparative anatomist, Professor
I Owen, C.B., F.R,S., who entered into a long disquisition on the fossil
j birds of New Zealand as illustrative of the law of accurate generalisa-.
I tion from apparently unimportant circumstances; on the structure
i of the skeleton of the Megatherium, as illustrative of the law of special
II adaptation of form to function; and on the fossil animals of Australia,
j as illustrative of the law that the once popular ideas of a universal
i deluge were irreconcilable with the facts which science had slowly and
j cautiously built up. Professor Owen’s lecture was a masterpiece of
| accurate scientific oratorial teaching. Another course of lectures will
I be delivered after Easter, when the antiquities will be considered in
detail.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 17, 1879.
28
THE HEATHEN IDEA OF THE SOUL.
BY EPES SARGENT.
Professor Tyndall, in his recent reply to Professor
Virchow, gives us to understand that u the. heathen notion of
a soul ” is that of “ a Psyche which could be thrown out of
the window.”
Nothing could be further from the truth than this. Mr.
E. B. Tylor, in his Primitive Culture, tells us that the con¬
ception of a personal soul or spirit among the lower races of
mankind is that of “ a thin, unsubstantial human image, in
its nature a sort of vapour, film, or shadow.”
If the word unsubstantial is here used in its philosophical
sense, I object to it as conveying an erroneous impression.
Mr. Tylor proceeds to say, that this filmy body is regarded
as “ the cause of life and thought in the individual it
animates; independently possessing the personal conscious¬
ness and volition of its corporeaP owner, past or present;
capable of leaving the body far behind, to flash swiftly from
place to place; mostly impalpable and invisible, yet also
manifesting physical power, and especially appearing to men
waking or asleep as a phantasm separate from the body, of
which it bears the likeness; able to enter into, possess, and
act in the bodies of other men, of animals, and even of
things.”
Such is a soul, according to the lowest heathen concep¬
tion.
Is this te a Psyche that can be thrown out of the window ?”
That the heathen notion of a soul, even as held by the lower
races, did not essentially differ from Christ’s own notion, is
obvious to one who has been a student both of Scriptural
pneumatology, and of that of modern Spiritualism. $ What
the Christian Scriptures and St. Paul specifically assert,”
says Isaac Taylor, in his Physical Theory of Another Life,
is not any abstruse metaphysical doctrine, but the simple
physiological fact of two species of corporeity.”
Even the heathen doctrine that the spirit (in the words of
Tylor) is able to y act in the bodies of other men, of animals,
and even of things,” was notoriously entertained by Christ, as
is manifest in his casting out devils, his allowing the
impure spirits to influence a herd of swine, and his own
exercise of spiritual power in making the unfruitful fig-tree
wither.
Origen tells us that the word “ incorporeal” is not to be
found in Scripture, and that a spirit, strictly, means a body.
From this, it is only a coarse misconception to infer that he
regarded it as a body that “ could be thrown out of the
window.”
Tertullian says: “ The soul has the human form, the same
as its body, only it is delicate, clear, and ethereal.”
Were these men “ heathens ” in Mr. Tyndall’s classifi¬
cation ?
That spirits could be seen was the common belief among
the early Christians. Many of them declared that they had
seen the souls of the dying as they left the body.
Thomas Aquinas says: “The soul, which is the primary
source of life, is not body, but the actuality of body; as
heat, which is the source whence bodies are made hot, is not
body, but a sort of actuality of body.” Aquinas differed
from Tertullian and the rest, but the passage we have quoted
from him is quite consistent with the theory of a potential
spiritual organism.
The early Greek notion of the soul was less clear and
defined than that of the lower tribes, as described by Tylor.
Homer’s ghosts are a shadowy and unhappy set, but certainly
not of a kind to be “thrown out of a window.”
In ridiculing the notion of spiritual manifestations, the
pseudo-scientists of the last two centuries have done much
to unfit the educated mind for the supersensual phenomena
now so common. The unbelievers constitute a large majority
of the cultivated classes, and it may be appropriately said of
them, in the words of Isaac Taylor, “ No prejudice of the
vulgar can be more unphilosophical than is that which would
obstruct, for a moment, our acquiescence in the belief of a
future transfusion of human nature, with its individuality,
into a new and more refined corporeal structure;” and, I
might add, a structure co-existent with the physical body.
Mr. Tyndall thinks it is only the “ grosser minds ” that
image the soul as “ an entity which is usually occupied, we
know not how, among the molecules of the brain, but which,
|| on due occasion, such as the intrusion of a bullet or the blow
| of a club, can fly away into the regions of space.”
Now, it is not true that the common heathen notion ” of
| a soul is that of an entity occupied “ among the molecules of
)| the brain.” As well might it be said that our notion of a
| violinist is that of one who is occupied among the molecules
j of his violin. What the heathen believes is, that the spirit
| of man is in the whole and every part of his outward body,
j is the purer substance of it, both in its organs of motion and
j of sense, and everywhere else ; that, in short, the spirit is
| the man himself, and that the outward body only serves it
| just as what is instrumental serves a moving living force.
| And this would seem to have been the notion of St. Paul
| and the early Christians.
It is a notion in strict harmony with all the facts of the
| most advanced positive science. There is nothing in
| chemistry, mechanics, or physics generally that can authori-
11 tatively stamp as unscientific the hypothesis of a supersen-
j j sual organism, developed pari passu with the physical, and
f acting between it and the life constantly inflowing from the
[ | Central Source of all things. Neither observation nor science
; i has any evidence to offer against this idea.
Mr. Tyndall says : “ The mechanical philosopher, as such,
|| will never place a state of consciousness and a group of
; j molecules in the relation of mover and moved. Observation
proves them to interact; but, in passing from the one to the
other, we meet a blank which the logic of deduction is unable
to fill.”
The logic of facts, as observed and admitted by the ad¬
vanced pyschology of our day, fills that blank, however, and
justifies that conception of “grosser mindsj” which regards
the thinking faculty of man as inhering in an abiding entity
and substance.
Strange, is it not, that the “ heathen,” even of the lower
I tribes, should have an idea of the soul more consistent with
facts than that entertained by one of the most eminent
physicists of Christendom ! It recalls what Christ said of
the “ babes and simpletons.”
Mr. Tyndall is far from being a materialist; he is an
agnostic. He says: “It is, I believe, admitted by those
who hold the automaton theory that consciousness is
produced by the motion of the molecules of the brain; and
this production of consciousness by molecular motion is to
me quite as unpresentable to the mental vision as the pro¬
duction of molecular motion by consciousness. If I reject
one result, I must reject both. X* however, reject neither,
and thus stand in the presence of two incomprehensibles,
ins tead of one incomprehensible.” And for this neutrality
he seems anxious to claim credit from the theologians.
He further says : “ Does water think or feel when it runs
| into frost-ferns upon a window-pane ? If not, why should
| the molecular motion of the brain be yoked to this mysterious
| companion—consciousness . . . ? We can form no picture
| of the process whereby consciousness emerges, either as a
| necessary link, or as an accidental by-product of this series
| of actions. The reverse process of the production of motion
| by consciousness is equally unpresentable to the mind.”
Demonstrable facts must rule, however, and not our
notions of what they ought to be. Consciousness, acting
through the will, or, in some way unknown, can cause motion
| to be produced in matter, independently of all processes
| admitted by physical science; and this is among the familiar
| facts accessible now to any patient investigator.
As the alternative of what Mr. Tyndall stigmatises as that
“ heathen notion ” belief in a Psyche “ which can be thrown
| out of the window,” he offers, in contrast to this concep-
I tion of “ grosser minds,” the following concession to
| theology: “ If you consent to make your soul a poetic
I rendering of a phenomenon which refuses the yoke of ordinary
1 physical laws, I, for one, would not • obiect to this exercise
of ideality.”
And he affects to plume himself on his magnanimity in
j conceding thus much, for he adds : “ I say it strongly, but
with good temper, that the theologian, or the defender of
theology, who hacks and scourges me for putting the ques¬
tion in this light is guilty of black ingratitude.”
I cannot but admire the serenity with which Mr. Tyndall
| here intimates the charge of “ black ingratitude” against the
* ‘1 theologians.
Jan. 17, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
29
In place of an entity, a substance,'the only conceivable |)|
ground for the inherence of the immortal principle in man, j j j
the only assurance that there is no gap between the disso- i | j
lution of the visible body and continuous life in an invisible j) j
body, Mr.Tyndall offers the theologians “a poetical rendering I j j
of a phenomenon”—the phenomenon, namely, of the con- ju
nection between molecular motions and states of con- in
sciousness ! | {|
A poetical rendering of it! A rendering which must reject, j j!
as the chimera of 4‘grosser minds,” the notion that there m
is anything real, substantial, and abiding in man ; anything | j j
independent of the ever-shifting molecules which go to make j j |
up his physical body ; anything which may be the continent, j | |
the sanctuary of a spiritual principle, to the existence of |:j|
which ten thousand psychical facts of transcendent signi- j | j
ficance have ever pointed and still point I j 11
A poetical rendering of a phenomenon ! And his toleration j j
of such a rendering is the claim which Mr. Tyndall presents I j
for the gratitude of the theologians! Instead of bread, he j) |
gives them—not even a stone—but a sarcasm or conceit, the j j j
equivalent of which is nothing at all. 11 ]
And why not a scientific rather than a poetical rendering ? i | j
“ Because it is impossible,” Mr. Tyndall will reply. | j |
Fortunately his incredulity is not the exact measure of I j
nature’s possibilities. Since intelligent effects are produced j j j
without any visible or known means—since supersensual j |
knowledge and powers are plainly manifested—we have )
reason for supposing that there is a supra-physical or
spiritual agency producing the manifestations.
The one thing that Mr. Tyndall lacks, therefore, in order to
give value and direction to his speculations about the soul, is
a knowledge of existing, accessible facts—experimental
knowledge.
Any “ poetical rendering ” which would regard the power
that thinks in man unsubstantial as a bursting bubble, and
becoming at death an unorganised, uncircumscribed nothing, |
is no better than the creed of the modern Sadducee, who
rejects immortality as the dream of egoism. If Mr. Tyndall
can see no other alternative, it is not because he is in¬
structed, but because he is ignorant. If there is anything
confirmed by the phenomena of Spiritualism it is the
thoroughly Christian doctrine of the power of spirit over
matter, as manifested by Christ when He entered the room
with closed doors ; and again when He disappeared from the
view of His disciples, those men of “grosser minds,” who | j
were fatuous enough to believe the phenomena when they | |
saw them. I jj
And yet Mr. Tyndall has stigmatised these beliefs by a
dishonouring and unclean phrase. I will not recall it, since I |
I doubt not he has ere this regretted its coarseness and in- j j
justice. But I would call his attention to the following [ j
pregnant remarks by Isaac Taylor, who wrote them more |
than ten years before modern Spiritualism emerged into |
notice. “Nothing is more dangerous than to indulge j
notions which tend to make us think our tastes and prin- j
ciples more refined and elevated than those of the Creator and j
Ruler of the universe. Something of this infatuation very j
commonly besets ardent and abstracted minds.”
Mr. Tyndall, I do not doubt, is anxious to hold the scales j
impartially between the materialists and those who have j
some sort of a belief in a future life. But he rules out, as |
a gross conception, the belief of the early Christian, the j
heathen, and the Spiritualist, in a spiritual body. Thus, he j j
narrows down almost to annihilation the grounds for any j j
rational belief at all in individual immortality. It is only j |
an acquaintance with the phenomena of Spiritualism that j j
can help him out of his agnosticism : but from these he j j
turns with impatience and resentment. j i
Boston, January, 1879. i I j
Private Theatricals.—The date of the concert and theatrical enter- j j |
tainment to be given in aid of the funds of the National Association of j ) j
Spiritualists at 38, Great Russell-street, London,has been changed from j < j
"Wednesday, 29th, to Tuesday, 28th inst. Programmes will be in i j j
readiness in the course of a few days. As the ladies and gentlemen are i |
kindly giving their services for the purpose of aiding the funds of the j ]!
Association, and as the entertainment promises to be a remarkably j j
lively one, it is to be hoped that an active demand for tickets will be at j)
once commenced. Mrs. Edwin Ellis is taking the lead in the manage- j)
ment of the preparations. i (
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council
of the British National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander
Calder, president, occupied the chair. The other members present
were Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.
Edwin Ellis, Mr. Cornelius Pearson, Mr. M. J. Walhouse, Mrs. Lowe,
Miss Houghton, Mr. Reimers, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The minutes of the last meeting having been read and confirmed,
two new members were elected. There were twenty-one resignations,
the prevailing reason given being “ bad times.” Miss Kislingbury said
they were all among the annual subscribers of the smaller amounts.
Mr. Oxley resigned because the Association was not composed of
Spiritualists, and M. Constant, of Smyrna, because the Association was
composed of Spiritualists, whereas he thought the phenomena to be all
biology. Two other well-known member’s were among those who
resigned, namely, Dr. Carter Blake and Mr. Algernon Joy.
The following resolution was then unanimously passed, on the motion
of Mrs. Lowe, seconded by Mr. Harrison :—
“ That, in accepting Dr. Blake’s resignation, the best thanks of the
Council be given to him for his very valuable services to the Association
in cataloguing the Library, and in the work of the Seance and Experi¬
mental Research Committees.”
Mr. Morell Theobald proposed, Miss Houghton seconded, and it wa?
passed unanimously—
“ That Mr. Algernon Joy be requested to accept honorary membership.”
After the reading of various letters on miscellaneous subjects, several
presentations were announced, namely—
& Experiences in Spiritualism with Mr. D. D. Home” by Viscount Adare ;
presented by Mr. W. Wilkinson. “ The Doctrine of a Future Life]' by W. R.
Alger; from Mr. J. S. Crisp. 11 The Army List;” from Captain James.
“ Appariel Electro-Magnetiquesf written and presented by M. Edard ; and two
copies of an Opera, composed and given by Mr. F. Tindall. A vote of thanks
was passed to the donors.
Miss Kislingbury announced that many of the members had raised
their subscriptions, so that there was an increase in the income of the
Association for 1879.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the report of the Finance Committee,
which set forth that there was a balance in hand of ;£69 7s. lid. at the
end of last year, and that about £70 had been paid in since. It recom¬
mended payments to the extent of £85 2s. 7d.
Mr. Dawson Rogers having read the report of the Soiree Committee,
the President read the following letter from Miss Kislingbury :—
38, Great Russell-street, W.C., January 11th, 1879.
Dear Mr. Calder,—It is with great regret that I find myself, on various
grounds, unable to carry out the agreement I had made to remain as Secretary
of the Association.
I must, therefore, beg you to give notice of my resignation at the next
Council meeting, and to ask the Council to release me as soon as arrange¬
ments can be made which will be considered most conducive to the welfare of
the Association.
I will also ask you to convey to the Council my deep sense of gratitude for
the kindness and support I have never failed to receive from its members in
carrying out the work, and my great regret at our unavoidable separation.—
Believe me, most faithfully yours, Emily Kislingbury, Sec.
^To the President of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Mrs. Edwin Ellis having stated that Miss Kislingbury irrevocably
wished to be released from her duties as soon as possible, moved that
her resignation be accepted with “ very great regret.” This was
seconded by Mrs. Lowe, and carried unanimously.
Mr. Dawson Rogers moved, Mr. Morell Theobald seconded, and it
was carried unanimously, that—
“A committee be appointed to consider the question of the future
secretaryship, and the general house arrangements, and to bring up
their recommendations to the next meeting of the Council for considera¬
tion, such recommendations having been previously sent to all members
of Council—the committee to have power to make the necessary ad
interim arrangements.”
Mr. Dawson Rogers moved, and Mr. Theobald seconded, that the
General Purposes Committee be appointed to act as the said committee,
with the addition of Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Miss Withall, and
Miss Theobald.
Mr. Theobald moved, and Miss Houghton seconded, that Mr. Rogers
be added to the committee.
These arrangements were carried unanimously.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald then gave the following notice of motion
relating to the Rev. Thomas Colley :—
“ If Mr. Colley do not attend the next Council meeting, or, before the
period of that meeting, withdraw or take steps to substantiate his offensive
insinuations and implied charges against the ‘ authorities ’ of this Associa¬
tion, I shall move that he be requested to withdraw from this Council.”
Spiritualism in America.—Mr. Alfred E. Giles, of Hyde Park,
Massachusetts, writes:—“ You may have already learned that Mr.
Wm. J. Colville has been favourably received, and given great satis¬
faction to full audiences in Berlin. Since he closed his engagement at
Parker Memorial Hall, where he lectured on Sunday afternoons during
November, he has opened on his own account Sunday morning lectures
at Paine Hall. I have heard many expressions of admiration and not
one of disappointment, for his lectures are prompt and lucid answers
to questions suggested by his discourses. Mrs. Richmond draws full
assemblies at Parker Memorial Hall on Sunday afternoons, and will
be there till March. Dr. H. F. Gardiner, who for fifteen or more
years has been pre-eminent in initiating and sustaining Spiritual
meetings in Boston and vicinity, died last Friday morning. Miss
Lizzie Doten most faithfully and assiduously ministered to him during
his long, weary illness.”
30
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 17, 1879.
PSYCHOGRAPHY.*
Oct. 10.—Purchased two book-slates, placed a grain of
pencil in each, fastened them in front tightly. Went at three
o’clock with a friend to Dr. Slade; in a short time (the
slates never having been opened or leaving our sight)
writing was heard inside, and on opening saw—“ We will
try’’—unimportant, but appertaining to a question. Two
school slates were placed one on the other, a pencil grain
between them, held by Slade on my shoulder ; writing com¬
menced and continued whilst being removed to the table,
and still continued there when his hand was on them, ceas¬
ing when lifted from them, continued when replaced.
The power once obtained afterwards operated instantly, so
that writing might commence before it was at the edge of
the table. Those who go with an unfair, ungenerous spirit,
are disappointed. My object was to ascertain its truth or
falsehood; many desire only to uphold their own pre¬
conceived opinion. The power is more delicate and sensitive
than that of reading or composing, yet few can read or com¬
pose whilst surrounded by eager, watchful, antagonistic'
people. I do not believe Slade is a trickster.
R. J. Ckeasy.
Melbourne, Australia, 1878.  
I can testify to the entire credibility and bond Jides of
Mr. Creasy. J. Scott.
Bath, Dec. 16th, 1878.
SUTTA NIPATA.
English society is deeply indebted to Mr. Trubner for the
standard works he has published from time to time, giving
unprejudiced information about the religions and philosophies
of Eastern nations. But for his action in this respect, the
nature of the highest religious instincts of a considerable
section of the human race would have been a sealed book to
the general reader. We have just received from him the
/Sutta Nipdta, consisting of the discourses of Gotama Buddha,
translated from the Pali by Sir Coomara Swamy, of Ceylon.
These discourses were first recorded rather more than 500
years before the birth of Christ, so are of great antiquity;
they are still much esteemed by Southern Buddhists, who
sometimes take from them the texts of their sermons in the
monasteries. The following curious passages are quoted from
the work, showing that that stately animal, the rhinoceros,
was treated by Gotama Buddha with more respect than a
keeper in the Zoological Gardens would suppose to have been
his due :—
Let a hero abandoning the ways of the world (and) also
flinging off the bonds of the household, like a Kovilara-
tree, which has cast off its leaves, walk alone like a
rhinoceros.
If a wise man secures a wise friend (who will act) in con¬
cert with him, being firmly established in good principles,
he will live happily with him, overcoming all afflictions.
If a wise man secures not a wise friend (who will act) in
concert with him, being firmly established in good principles,
let him, like a king who has abandoned the country con¬
quered by him, walk alone like a rhinoceros.
Certainly we praise the acquisition of friendship; (but)
good friends should be admitted into (one’s) company; not
obtaining such friends, let one, subsisting on pure food, walk
alone like a rhinoceros.
Noticing (how even) two glittering armlets of gold (though)
well made by a goldsmith strike against each other, let one
W'alk alone like a rhinoceros.
Thus, being with a second beside myself, I must either
speak too much or be angry with him; observing this
danger, for the future, let a man walk alone like a rhinoceros.
Desires are indeed various, sweet (and) pleasing to the
mind; they churn the mind in different ways; observing
I the distress (resulting) from desires, let one walk alone like
a rhinoceros.
This (body is) a calamity, an excrescence, a danger, a
| disease, a dart (of sorrow), a fear to me; observing this
| danger (resulting) from desires, let one walk alone like a
] rhinoceros.
(There are) cold, heat, hunger, thirst, wind, sun, gadflies,
I snakes ; having overcome all these various things, let a man
walk alone like a rhinoceros.
As the huge-bodied, white-spotted, noble elephant wanders
j in the forest, whithersoever he will, deserting his herd (so
I also) let one walk alone like a rhinoceros,
j The (attaining of even) temporary Samadhi (meditation)
11 by any one who is attached to society, is impossible; such
j is the teaching of the kinsman of the sun ; let one, having
| heard this, walk alone like a rhinoceros,
i Thus overcoming those things which injure faith, having
| attained firmness (of mind, and) reached the right path, I
>| have indeed arrived at (complete) knowledge and have
| nothing left to be known. Let one walk alone like a
1 rhinoceros.
Divested of greediness, deceit, longings, not disparaging
I j others unjustly, in the whole world; released from evil
; j affections and ignorance; desireless, let one walk alone like
a rhinoceros.
Let one cast away a sinful friend who looks to do wicked
I things (or) is established in wicked actions: let the same
| person associate not with one fond (of pleasure, and) pro-
| crastinating in doing good things. Let him walk alone like
| a rhinoceros.
| Let him serve a friend who is very learned, versed in
| morals, great (and) possessed of a quick understanding;
having known the (real) meaning (of things), let him re-
| move his doubts and walk alone like a rhinoceros.
Indifferent to amusements, lust (and) the pleasures of the
world, not beautifying oneself, despising ornaments, and
| speaking the truth, let one walk alone like a rhinoceros.
Having abandoned the different kinds of desire (founded
| on) child, wife, father, mother, wealth, corn, relations, let
| one walk alone like a rhinoceros.
Let a wise man, having discovered that such is attach¬
ment, that there is in it but little happiness, that it is but
insipid, that there is more affliction in it (than comfort),
| that it is a fish-hook, walk alone like a rhinoceros.
Having cast off the bonds, like a fish which breaks the net
j in the water, like a fire that returns not to the spot already
burnt up, let one walk alone like a rhinoceros.
With his eyes looking downwards, not moving quickly,
with his senses guarded, his mind restrained, not burdened
with lust, not burning with desire, let one walk alone like a
rhinoceros.
Having abandoned the ways of the householder, clothed
in yellow robes, like a Parichchhatta-tree, which is densely
covered with leaves, having given up laymanship, let one
walk alone like a rhinoceros.
Not being greedy of savoury things, not being unsteady,
nor maintained by others, begging from house to house
without any distinction, not having a mind attached to this
or that family, let one walk alone like a rhinoceros.
Having cast off the five Nivara^as (evil tendencies) of the
mind, having cleared away all the obscurities of the miud,
having extinguished the folly of friendship, not allied to
anything, let one walk alone like a rhinoceros.
Having thrown behind him pleasure and pain, and first
. (doing away with) good and bad intentions, having (then)
11 secured the middle state, which is pacific and pure, let one
! (| walk alone like a rhinoceros.
! (| The new work by “ M. A. (Oxon) ” on Spirit Identity will be pub-
I!' | lished at The Spiritualist branch office about three weeks hence.
Next Monday evening Mr. W. H. Harrison will read a paper before
| the British National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, on “ Apparitions and Hauntings.” To commence at
I eight o’clock.
When jugglers who have a living to get visit provincial towns, and
j assert that the phenomena of Spiritualism are not real, the blue
i “spiritual leaflets” should be circulated at their lectures, telling the
readers how to obtain manifestations in their own homes, with no
Spiritualist or stranger to the family present. Thus the public may
[ be protected ironi deception.
* A Memorandum read before the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Jan. 17, 187§.
THE SPIftlTUALIST.
31
FAKE WELL TO EARTH.
The following spirit poetry purports to be Poe’s final farewell to
Earth. It was given in the City of New York, through the trance
mediumship of Miss Lizzie Doten, on Monday evening, Nov. 2, 1863,
and published in Poems from the Inner Life (Colby and Rich,
Boston, U.S.):—
i.
Farewell! Farewell!
Like the music of a bell
Floating downward to the dell—
Downward from some Alpine height
While the sunset-embers bright,
Fade upon the hearth of night;
So my spirit, voiceless—breathless—
Indestructible and deathless,
From the heights of Life Elysian gives to Earth my parting song;
Downward through the star-lit spaces,
Unto Earth’s most lowly places,
Like the sun-born strains of Memnon, let the music float along,
With a wild and wayward rhythm, with a movement deep and strong.
“ Come up higher ! ” cry the angels.—This must be my parting song.
Earth! 0 Earth! thou art my Mother.
Mortal man! thou art my Brother.
We have shared a mutual sorrow, we have known a common birth;
Yet with all my soul’s endeavour,
I will sunder, and forever,
Every tie of human passion that can bind my soul to Earth—
Every slavish tie that binds me to the things of little worth.
“ Come up higher! ’’ cry the angels: “ come ! and bid farewell to Earth.”
I would bear a love Platonic to the souls in earthly life;
I would give a sign Masonic to the heroes in the strife ;
I have been their fellow-craftsman, bound apprentice to that Art,
Whereby Life, that cunning draughtsman, builds his temple in the heart.
But with Earth no longer mated, I have passed the First Degree;
I have been initiated to the second mystery.
0, its high and holy meaning not one soul shall fail to see!
Now, with loftiest aspirations, onward through the worlds I march,
Through the countless constellations, upwards to the Royal Arch.
“ Come up higher!” cry the angels: “ come up to the Royal Arch.”
it.
Farewell! Farewell!
Like the tolling of a bell,
Sounding forth some funeral knell—
Tolling with a sad refrain,
Not for those who rest from pain,
But for those who still remain;
So sweet pathos would I borrow
From the loving lips of Sorrow,
Weaving in a plaintive minor with the cadence of my song,
For the souls that lonely languish,
For the hearts that break with anguish,
For the weak ones and the tempted, who must sin and suffer long ;
For the hosts of living martyrs, groaning ’neath some ancient wrong ;
For the cowards and the cravens, who in guilt alone are strong.
But from all Earth’s woe and sadness,
All its folly and its madness,
I would never strive to save you, or avert the evil blow;
Even if I would, I could not,
Even if I could, I would not,
Turn the course of Time’s great river, in its grand, majestic flow;
Grapple with those mighty causes whose results I may not know:
All Life’s sorrows end in blessing, as the future yet shall show.
From Life’s overflowing beaker I have drained the bitter draught,
Changing to a maddening ichor in my being as I quaffed,
I have felt the hot blood rushing o’er its red and tortuous path,
Like the molten lava, gushing in its wild, volcanic wrath ;
Like a bubbling, boiling Geyser, in the regions of the pole;
Like a Scylla or Charybdis, threatening to engulf my soul.
0, for all such fire-wrought natures let my rhythmic numbers toll 1
Vulnerable, like Achilles, only in one fatal part,
I was wounded, by Life’s arrows, in the head, but not the heart.
“ Come up higher 1 ” cried the angelsand I hastened to depart.
in.
Farewell! farewell!
Like a merry marriage-bell,
Pealing with a tuneful swell,
Telling, in a joyful strain,
With a whispered, sweet refrain,
Of the hearts no longer twain;
So no longer cursed and fated,
Fondly loved and truly mated,
I can pour my inspirations, free as Orpheus, through my strain.
Gifted with a sense of seeing
Far beyond my earthly being,
I can feel I have not suffered, loved, and hoped, and feared in vain;
Every earthly sin and sorrow I can only count as gain:
I can chant a grand “ Te Deum ” o’er the record of my pain.
Ye who grope in darkness blindly,
Ye who seek a refuge kindly,
Ye upon whose hearts the ravens—ghostly ravens—perch and prey,
Listen! for the bells are ringing,
Tuneful as the angels singing,
Ringing in the glorious morning of your spirit’s marriage-day,
When the soul, no longer fettered to the feeble form of clay,
To a high, harmonious union, soars, elate with hope away.
Where the iris arch of Beauty bridges o’er celestial skies,
Where the golden line of Duty, like a living pathway lies,
Where the gonfalons of Glory float upon the fragrant air,
Ye who read Life’s lengthening story, find a Royal Chapter there.
Ye shall see how men and nations o’er the ways of life advance;
Ye shall watch the constellations in their mazy, mystic dance ;
And the Central Sun shall greet you—greet you with a golden glance.
O, for souls in Life Eternal let the bells in gladness ring!
Bind the wreath of orange blossoms, and the wedding garment bring.
“ Come up higher ! ” cry the angels.—Let the bells in gladness ring.
IV.
Farewell! Farewell!
Like the chiming of the bells,
Which a tale of triumph tells ;
As the news in tuneful notes,
Leaping from the brazen throats,
On the startled ether floats—
So in freedom, great and glorious,
Over flesh and sense victorious,
Does the Spirit leap the barrier which across its pathway lies!
Greater far than Royal Caesar,
Fearless as the Northern JEsir,
Drawn by Love’s celestial magnet, winged with faith and hope it flies.
Upward o’er the starry pathway, leading onward through the skies,
To the land of Light and Beauty, where no bud of promise dies.
There, through all the vast Empyrean,
Wafted, as on gales Hesperian,
Comes the stirring cry of “ Progress ! ” telling of the yet to be.
Tuneful as a seraph’s lyre,
“ Come up higher ! Come up higher ! ”
Cry the hosts of holy angels; “ learn the heavenly Masonry :
Life is one eternal progress: enter, then, the Third Degree ;—
Ye who long for light and wisdom seek the Inner Mystery ! ”
Thus, 0 Sons of Earth, I leave you ! — leave you for that higher
light;
And my charge is now, Receive you all my parting words aright:
Human passion, mad ambition, bound me to this lower Earth,
Even in my changed condition—even in my higher birth.
But, by earnest, firm endeavour, I have gained a height sublime ;
And I ne’er again—no, never !—shall be bound to Space or Time ;
I have conquered ! and for ever ! Let the bells in triumph chime !
“ Come up higher ! ” cry the angels : “ come up to the Royal Arch !
Come and join the Past Grand Masters, in the Soul’s progressive
march,
O, thou neophyte of Wisdom! Come up to the Royal Arch ! ”
Sons of Earth ! where’er ye dwell,
Break Temptation’s magic spell !
Truth is Heaven, and Falsehood, Hell!
Lawless Lust a demon fell!
Sons of Earth! where’er ye dwell,—
In this Heaven, or in this Hell,—
When ye hear the solemn swell
Of Creation’s mighty bell
Sounding forth Time’s funeral knell,
Ye shall meet me where I dwell;—
Until then—Farewell ! Farewell 1
32
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 17, 1879.
(Eflmspflttuetue.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']  
THE INFLUENCE OF THE SITTERS UPON MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—In a letter lately received from Mr. Simmons, in which he
speaks of the so-called exposures of mediums, he makes some remarks
and some statements which I feel to be of weight, because of his long-
continued and intimate association with Slade, and his natural shrewd¬
ness in observing such facts and indications as have come in his way.
After expressing his satisfaction in reading Mr. Leymon’s letter in the
Banner, strongly endorsing the Holmeses, who for so long were
denounced in all the American papers as basely fraudulent, he says:
“ The more I reflect on my experience with mediums, the stronger my
convictions are that they seldom, if ever, attempt the practice of fraud
consciously, even when appearances would seem to admit of no other
theory. My sympathies are strongly on the side of Williams and Rita
in their present trouble, believing that it all comes from the influences
controlling at the time of the alleged exposure. It may be perhaps, in
the end, a lesson to those who have frequently referred sneeringly to
such events occurring in this country, charging us with being incom¬
petent investigators, and assuming the medium to have been a deceiver.
A philosophical solution of the case is of much more importance to
them, and more probable now than it would be had the same charges
been made against mediums in this country. I am convinced that we
are apt to hold mediums responsible when the fault is entirely our own. I
think it is an established fact that a passive condition on the part of the
sitter is eminently essential; and let us recognise this—that it by no
means follows that I am passive, however quiet I may keep, while I am
filled with suspicious scepticism, which will crop out in spite of me.
During the first years that I was with Slade, it was not unusual to find
that I had involuntarily psychologised him, so that he would repeat my
movements without, apparently, being aware of it. Sometimes he
would do this when lying asleep on the couch. Other persons have
affected him in the same way, so that when they left the room he would
rise from his chair when they did, and follow them to the door, unable
to resist. One or two upward passes released him. With such an
organisation, surrounded by persons of strong psychological powers,
fully persuaded of the medium’s dishonesty, and having adopted a
theory by which they are assured they shall be able to detect the fraud,
their success in seeing the sensitive and unconscious medium act
precisely as they had anticipated is not to be wondered at. The result
is that, what if rightly understood would have been an interesting
experiment, is given to the world as proof positive of fraud. Spiritualists,
I am sorry to say, are too often guilty of this offence. They may not
be able to banish scepticism, but should be careful how they condemn,
when a fuller understanding of the case would place the whole matter in
a very different light. The more sensitive the medium, the more
susceptible he is to all outside influences, and, in like proportion, the
difficulty, of drawing the line of responsibility increases. But thanks
to the invisibles, who labour on, men will learn that only favourable
conditions, and a better understanding of the laws which govern these
things, are required to enable them to demonstrate the honesty of their
mediums ! Many have been denounced as fraudulent, and, in some
cases, even been led to plead guilty by the strong influences brought to
bear upon them, who have denied the allegation when differently
surrounded, and have shown themselves ready and eager to submit to
full and fair investigation—such investigation almost always resulting in
their full and complete vindication.”
For myself, I can only say that I endorse fully all that I have here j
quoted, and that my own observation has led me to believe that j
conscious fraud on the part of our noted mediums, instead of being the |
rule, as many would have us believe, is decidedly exceptional, and even I
a rare exception. Louisa Andrews.
THE TWO BRAINS.
Sir,—Mr. C. C. Massey wishes “ some physiologist to say whether
in the lifting of great weights by mesmeric sensitives more power is
exercised than had been stored up in the muscles. If so, the origin of
the force must be sought elsewhere.”
Through my discovery of phreno-mesmerism I fully demonstrated that
the lower brain is related to the brain in respect to all its physical condi¬
tions, and the upper brain to the mind, or conscious, intelligence, &c.;
and I found that it was the lateral portions of the cerebellum, or lower
and lesser brain, that related to the muscles; and it may interest
Spiritualists to know that when Miss Hardinge, after one of her inspira¬
tional addresses, was asked the difference in the functions of the two
brains, she gave the reply as above stated. Professor Barrett, without
having heard of my experiments, has accidentally, or independently
confirmed the general truth of phreno-mesmerism as we have read, and
he tells me that some French experimentalists have lately verified my
discovery in respect to the functions of the cerebellum. Particularly, as
bearing relation to the muscles, there has always been considered to be
two souls; even Bacon refers to it. The lower, or animal soul, and the
soul, or mind proper. It is certain that if I trip and save myself before
being conscious of what has occurred, there must be an unconscious,
muscular, conservative, and guiding influence to an end ; and it is the
same with pain from an injury, since you shrink from the cause before
you are sensible of the pain or of the action in consequence ; and this is
so even in deep sleep. The power is, therefore, ever on the watch, as
it were—blind instinct, or “ unconscious cerebration,” or “ sub-conscious¬
ness.” In all our actions and manipulations we have a clear sense of
power, which we estimate, and direct, and control through the instru¬
mentality of the muscular system, and this power can issue from its
source without the intervention of the muscles, as in table-moving; but
what the medium is, or whether it is the same which perhaps underlies
light, heat, and gravitation, we cannot yet say. In pushing a
table there must be a medium, however short the distance, be¬
cause it is proved that bodies do not absolutely touch, so that
in the ordinary and extraordinary action the principle is the same,
the difference being merely in distance and degree. The sub-conscious¬
ness may, as we have stated, accompany the force, and show evidence
of intelligence. With mesmerised subjects, by touching the side of the
cerebellum behind the ea!r you may, in susceptible persons, produce
great muscular force, but not by pressing on any other part of either
brain. Even with a child in ordinary sleep you may often cause it to
move, to throw its arms about, and to sit up, by pressing on the part
named; or your mesmerised patient may become perfectly rigid, or
hold out the arm with a heavy weight attached, for an hour, without
experiencing inconvenience, or afterwards feeling the least fatigued.
In my Letters to Miss Martineau will be found a full account of my
experiments and their results; and I may be allowed to say that the
Professor of Philosophy in Holland, Dr. Pierson, in the last July
number of the Gids (Guide), refers to those letters. In his long article
on “ Harriet Martineau” he says, “ The noble and brave woman in Mr.
Atkinson’s letters, to the shame of many men, has helped to spread the
only fruitful scientific method, and has applied it to the science of man
and mind.” And, again, “ The mind proper is simply the conscious
phenomenon, which is no power at all, but the sense of what is the
power, being wholly and purely perception. This doctrine, not heard of
in Holland a couple of years ago, was promulgated by Mr. Atkinson so
early as 1851.”
Notwithstanding the mechanical theories of the age, and the opposi¬
tion or indifference of the high priests of science, we must accept
clairvoyance, and intuition, and instinct, and concede some magical or
spiritual formative principle, for atomic attractions, repulsions, and
polarities will not account for a complicated correlative interdependent
animal nature; and as we find that knowledge flows to brain or soul
without the intervention of the organs of the senses, so likewise force
may pass from the body without the instrumentality of the muscles,
however useful and essential the muscles and senses may be in the
practical conduct of life. Of course it would take a volume to detail
and illustrate what I have here but hinted at, but I should add that of
course if the agent be a spirit, it would act on the medium’s brain as the
naesmeriser does. Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN GERMANY.
Sir,—"When Miss Kislingbury, a fortnight ago, so bravely opened
the mental tournament about Spiritualism and religion—not for the
sake of strife, nor love, nor glory, but for the sake of truth only—I
felt greatly inclined to tush into the arena too, and lay in a lance for
the same cause. But having since read the correspondence of
January 3rd, headed by the admirable article entitled “ The Religious
Aspects of Spiritualism,” by Madame Isabel de Steiger, followed by a
series of letters, full of deep thought and valuable material for the
solution of the all-important question, contributed by various, and
partly by well-known, writers, I have changed my mind. I put down
my lance, pay homage to Madame de Steiger, bow profoundly to Mrs.
Nichols, and gently to the rest. I do not want to fight where such
valiant champions are already in the field who need no support, and
are able to stand their own ground. I gladly withdraw, therefore, at
present from the arena of the highest and loftiest thoughts to the
arena of proved facts, which, though uncommon to the world, yet form
the sole firm basis of its religious thoughts.
With your kind permission, then, I will continue my long-inter¬
rupted report of facts observed by me and other witnesses, at a series
of sittings in my own rooms and those of strangers, with a young
private and unpaid “psychic,” or medium, of good family.
In my report of the 19th and 31st July last, I gave merely a general
outline of the phenomena which occurred in his presence between the
5th and 31st of that month, or within less than one month from the day
we commenced our experiments, showing an extraordinary rapidity of
the development. The phenomena have since increased so much in
power and variety that, being aware you could not allow me suffi¬
cient space for a detailed report of all I have witnessed, I hardly know
where to begin, and what to pick out of the rich array of facts to pre¬
sent to your readers.
Before entering into details, I think I had better again give a brief
general outline of the principal phenomena. I have already mentioned
the obtaining of the ring-test, and the bringing of flowers by spirit
agency into a room with closed doors and windows. To these have
been added others, of which I mention the following as the most
remarkable:—
Spirit voices, in a low whisper, heard and conversed with freely for
hours, whilst the medium was wide awake and alone with me.
Medium and spirit voice speaking at the same time, the former loud,
and the latter in a whisper. Spirit voice heard and conversed with
in the presence of strangers, whose names and addresses I enclose
you. Loud spirit voice, first issuing from the mouth of the medium
whilst he was falling into a trance. Afterwards, when the medium
was fast asleep, loud spirit voice quite distant, and independent of the
vocal organs of the medium, talking freely to us, and answering our
questions promptly. Beautiful spirit lights produced by the talking
spirit at our request. Two quite different spirit voices, heard and
conversed with at a distance from, the entranced medium by a party
of ladies and gentlemen in the house of a baroness. A powerful spirit
voice addressing a young countess, and severely reproaching her for
her doubts as to the other world, the existence of spirits and spirit-
communion with mortals, and for her doubting his words and those of
his servant (the other spirit).
This happened on the 2Gth of November last, in the house and pre¬
sence of the mother and sister of the countess, besides that of some
Jan. 17, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
33
friends of the family, consisting of a count (an old Spiritualist), a
marquis, a marchioness, and a Prussian lieutenant of the Hussars,
besides the medium and myself.
This phenomenon took us all by surprise, because after the remark¬
able phenomena we had already witnessed that night, we did not
expect anything more so new and powerful. The spirit claimed to
come from a higher sphere than the one who was with him. What
surprised us most was his powerful voice. It might justly be called
a “stentorian” voice, such as could not possibly be produced or
imitated by any person known to us.
The medium lay all the while stretched out upon a divan fast
asleep, surrounded by us on three sides, and watched by the lieutenant
and the marquis at his head, and the venerable count at his feet,
whilst the spirit voice spoke at a distance of about eight or nine feet
from his head, and apparently from a height of about seven or eight
feet above the floor, in a corner of the room, where there was no kind
of exit. An estimate with which all parties present agreed was that
neither the medium, nor any one else in the party, could produce such
an imperial voice, which made our first laugh change into wonder and
trembling.
The scene was indeed the most exciting and extraordinary I ever
have witnessed. None of the observers will ever forget the impression.
The spirit told us that he had come to prove to us that Spiritualism
was a truth, and that he attended that night for a special purpose,
which we should perceive later. He said that it had taken twelve
weeks of time and trouble to come put with his voice as on that
evening with our medium. He further asserted that he stood there
before us fully materialised, clad like ourselves and other human
beings, and to prove it, he stamped his foot several times so heavily on
the floor, that the floor and furniture shook and vibrated. He said he
could show himself to us, but having already taken much power from
the medium, he would not draw more out of him that night for the
purpose. At our request, he gave us a brief description of the con¬
ditions of the sphere to which he belongs, and of the spheres below
him. He lectured us like a parson about the advisability of preparing
for our future life, and informed us that he had once taken the spirit
of the medium through the lower spheres up to his own, and taught
him about it, when the medium was in a similar trance. The spirit,
after severely lecturing the young countess for her obstinate scepticism
(sending her out of the room once, and calling her in again after¬
wards), ordered us to break up the seance, and not to wake the
medium suddenly, but to allow him time.
On the night that the above extraordinary phenomena were wit¬
nessed, the medium and I had come to the party by invitation, with
the sole purpose on our side of showing them a newly-discovered phe¬
nomenon, of no little importance with regard to its practical use for
convincing sceptics of all shades of the fact that a medium is neither a
cheat, nor a person with altogether ordinary gifts. I wanted to show
that the medium possessed the power of stopping a wound-up and
playing musical box, in full light, and without touching it, simply by
command. This fact the medium proved repeatedly at the beginning
of the seance, to the astonishment of the audience. The musical box
stopped and went on, played slowly and quickly, and repeated or
changed the tune, according to his word of command and the desire
expressed by the witnesses and transformed into commands by the
medium, in full light, and without his touching the instrument. Some,
fancying there might be a secret spring or similar hidden mechanical
contrivance connected with the musical box, tried to produce the same
effect, but all in vain. The box being my own, I have often tried it
myself, but it was of no use. Both the medium and I did not want to
sit after the successful demonstration of this phenomenon with the
musical box in the light, and we only yielded at last to the entreaty of
our noble hostess and her guests. Our unexpected reward was the
powerful production of spirit voices and lights, the most important
features of which I have just described.
My time being more limited than my material, I am obliged to send
you the continuation and conclusion of my report in my next letter.
Gr. Wiese.
Wiesbaden, January 10th, 1879.
THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OP SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—I have no wish to enter the present controversy further than to
endorse the thoughtful and reverent letters of Mrs. Nichols, Miss Kas¬
im gbury, and others, who desire to see the movement incline to a noble
ideal respect of all that is “ worthy of good repute ” in connection
with the old historic churches. Surely the devotional Christian
Positivism of Dr. Maurice Davies and the sweet religiousness of thought
and feeling which marks the movement in'France and Germany, are to be
preferred to its “ Bradlaughism ” tendency in certain parts of England,
or its vulgar “ free love,” church-hating developments in portions of
American society. Unfortunately those devout and influential pioneers
litterateurs, who once gave the movement its religious and refined
status, are now silent observers. Why should we burn Bibles, destroy
cathedrals, or ignore God ? J. T. Markxey.
3, Park-terrace, Horsham. ■
Sir,—Miss Kislingbury appears to me to mistake the true mission
of Spiritualism. Spiritualism is not, and never can be, a religion; each
will view it to suit his own particular belief. I conceive the true
mission of Spiritualism is to afford us the proof palpable of the con¬
tinued existence of the spirit after the dissolution of the body, and to
teach us how to make the best use of our earth-lives. Life is not a
probation, but a school for the development and education of the spirit.
Creeds are of little consequence, but the spirit can never attain its full
development within the walls of a convent or in a monk’s cell.
Those who perform their life work faithfully, who live an unselfish,
temperate life, who keep their thoughts pure, and their minds free
from envy, hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness, may meet their
end, come when it may, with a serene mind. W. C. P.
London, January 3rd, 1879.  
Sir,—Already the call in your journal of December 13th for a series
of Sunday morning services for Spiritualists has been answered by
some valuable suggestions, which, whether for use within or without the
churches, are of intrinsic value; for, as one of your leaders truly says,
the churches are less inimical to Spiritualism than the scientific world;
and they have many points in common with the Spiritualists.
First and foremost, as regards the question, “ Whom shall we
worship?” your article of December 27th justly answers, “Worship
God.” This is the first and grand requirement for all Spiritualists ; and
I think many owe their first true impulse to worship God from the
heart to Spiritualism ; indeed, I believe the worship of God to be the
commonest attribute of the Spiritualist everywhere ; and it brings its
reward in helping to make men honest and true and trustful of Provi¬
dence. And what is more likely to make men of cheerful countenance
than this? Dr. Crowell has shown how few Spiritualists go mad in
comparison with other religionists; and this is, in a great measure, I
believe, because their religion is full of eternal hope—it is the doctrine
of eternal punishment that drives man mad. The Spiritualist has
found what has been called, not unhappily, if somewhat satirically, a
happy hunting-ground. And here I am reminded that this cheerfulness
is just what the Pope is asking at this very time of his converts; he
wishes them, he says, to be cheerful as he is cheerful. It appears that
his Holiness is quite shocked at the asceticism of some of his new
converts among the English, if the journals of the day are authentic.
Perhaps the next question we should ask ourselves is, How shall we
worship God? In considering this point I think our first duty is to
meditate upon our relative position towards God: that we are His
offspring. For one thing is certain,—that we have our origin through
and from Him alone. And here an admirable article in your journal of
Dec. 13th, on Physical and Spiritual Growth, may put us in the right
way, for it argues, most justly, from analogy, that as in physical, so in
spiritual affairs, “ Life without growth is an anomaly.” So then, since
an earthly parent looks upon his child as a weak creature, who certainly
will grow gradually stronger if he does not die; so we may safely, I
think, predfcate the same of our spiritual state, and offer up our frequent
prayer to the Almighty to make us continually to increase in godly
knowledge, and to grow more and more in wisdom and truth, until we
come to “ perfection,” which few, if any, can attain on this side of life.
But we have been lately reminded that “ Strait is the gate and narrow
is the way which leadeth unto life; and few there be that find it.” But
what is the alternative to the above discouraging position of humanity,
taken alone ? Simply and solely, “ destructionfor “ Broad is the
way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat.”
The fate of the many is here the same as that of those on whom the
Tower of Siloam fell, and who perished. This perishing, or destruction,
is also the language of the Psalms. King David tells us, in the 49th
Psalm, with the voice of one crying in the wilderness, that the wise
man, as well as the fools and brutish, and even men held in honour,
perish, like the beasts; while his own soul was redeemed from the
power of the grave. I need hardly add, that David was said not to
have reached “ heaven” himself, a thousand years after his death.
Now this doctrine of destruction has its bright side for some persons.
For some—
To say we end
The heart ache, and the thousand natural shocks
That flesh is heir to, is a consummation
Devoutly to be wished.
And yet this doctrine of destruction, notwithstanding the acknowledged
supreme authority of its promulgator is, in the churches, a consumma¬
tion that not one of them, diverse as they are in other respects, will
admit for a single moment. And if Spiritualism has shown anything, it
has shown that we do not perish at death or immediately after, or even
soon after, but on the contrary, that death is life, so far as Spiritualism
knows. And what does destruction imply ? It implies the loss of
individuality, which often is so laden with sorrows; and, moreover, it
proclaims this loss of individuality as coincident with death which must
come upon us, after a period of trouble, which, however poignant, is
necessarily but short as time goes. But this loss of individuality is all
that can be alleged of the doctrine of absorption, which is said only to
take place after purgatorial processes of ages. To be done with at once,
after our experience here, would, as I said, to many, seem a delight, if
not too good to be true. But the fact is this view of our feelings seems
altogether incompatible with the opinion that there is a moral super¬
vision over man; that evil bears its own punishment sooner or later;
and that as a man sows so shall he reap. Besides spirits tell us that
sin is always found out; and this is one of the inestimable uses of
Spiritualism, that it confirms what is logical and just in all religions.
The absorption then of the spirit after it has gone through all kinds of
agonies, mental and bodily for ages, while joined to a soul, is another
method for the disposal of the human race, which men are taught to
believe by other men. I will pass over other methods of disposal of the
human race after death, which have been at times more or less handled
in your able and useful journal, and will only mention two or three of
them. The most popular alternative is, as we all know, what Mr.
Howitt used to call, “ beloved eternal punishment,” that is beloved of
the churches—the blessed whips ; and it is still held to by the churches
of Rome and England with the tenacity of drowning men.
Then, again, there is the doctrine, also from high authority, of paying
the uttermost farthing—the very last mite—with the few and many
stripes ; and I need scarcely remark that even many stripes must have
an end. But, with all discrepancies, one thing stands pre-eminent
which is this: The key-note of a great teacher, the frequent climax of
34
Jan. 17, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
his most impressive sayings is this notable apothegm: “Many are ,1
called, but few chosen.” Nevertheless, a good many honest people, or )
not, as the case may be, of no particular merit, think nothing more (
natural than that they, personally, should be at death among this small
band, this happy lot, this glorious but contracted category; and (
generally speaking of death as bringing a finality of status for them- (
selves and others, gravely demand of their supposed less fortunate
neighbours where they will go to when they die ? The sharp boy and j
girl who have always held a first place in their classes, and have been J
always accustomed to be commended by their teachers for their natural j
quickness, are very apt to fall into this train of thought as regards
themselves in after life; these are the last people to suppose that ever (
they should be left out in the cold, or perhaps I should have said the
heat; while there is another set of persons of a very different calibre, j
who, feeling how utterly unworthy they really are, cast all responsibil- (
ity from their own shoulders, and expect to join the small but favoured [
band at death through merits altogether and entirely not their own.
And now the important question comes. Does this limited ground (
for humanity’s hope, taught so lovingly by so many from disjointed
fragments of a vast fabric, and so earnestly persisted in more than ever
at the present moment, in some quarters, since its authenticity has
been somewhat questioned during the last thirty years, and since !
eternal hope has been looming in the offing; does, I say, this well- j
grounded declaration, that only few are chosen at death, imply that
hope for the future is then entirely lost, that all chance of improve¬
ment ceases at death, as is so widely taught, because, as I heard the
other day, “ God says so ’’ ? Or does the term *‘ Many are called and few I
chosen,” allude not to man’s final state, but to the state in which, perhaps, !
the large majority of men die, an imperfect state—a state, indeed, quite !
unfit for the pure and holy joy of God’s choice, of what is called !
“heaven,” but a state from which they may emerge after death by j
growth ; a state from whence we certainly believe they will emerge in I
due time, after “ paying the last farthing,” and amidst weeping and j
gnashing of teeth, perchance, receiving the few or many moral stripes j
they may richly deserve i If this be the true interpretation of “ many I
being called but few chosen,” there are, I think, few Spiritualists who
would dispute it.
One of your correspondents alludes to a night that cometh when no
man can work. But that, surely, cannot annul the doctrine of paying
the last farthing, which is expressly spoken of our future state, and
which must, surely, be paid by work. It is an obscure phrase, and may
be put in the same category with such words, hard to be understood, as,
“ I pray not for the worldor, “ Who gave Himself a ransom for all
and, if it suited the purpose of the churches, it would be ignored and j j
treated as contemptuously by them all as is the doctrine of destruction, [ I
and as the doctrine of paying the last mite is treated by the majority of }||
them. Nor can any, I think, who have read, for instance, the excellent j j
and instructive paper of the Comte de Bullet, in your number of Jan. | j
10th, suppose that the words, “ no man can work,” are applicable in any | j
way to the work that is going on so perseveringly through Mr. Firman’s ) !
mediumship, and so successfully, by spirits who were once men in the i j
flesh, and who have told us over and over again that they are working | j
out their salvation. i j
Well, it has been alleged, perhaps with truth, by another of your i j
correspondents, that Spiritualists have no common creed which any one i i
could propose with the least chance of acceptation by all. And I j j j
may ask, since we find discrepancy on all sides, What system, what I j
religion has ? - j | i
When there is an appearance of discrepancy in authority, we are I |
naturally inclined to turn to those views expressed by authority which j j
are at once, according to our opinions, the most logical and analogical j j
also; and surely the principle of growth is in conformity with both. I i
But this growth is just what Spiritualism has been teaching us all j j
along, under a generally accepted term among Spiritualists, which is i} i
called progress. Scrutator. I j ]
Sir,—I hope I am not expected to reply to all the questions Mr. j
Stainton Moses has propounded in his letter of last week. For, firstly, (j
I feel myself quite incompetent to the task; secondly, I suppose that j
even a whole number of The Spiritualist would not contain the pages j
that would have to be written. ] j
I will try, however, to answer question No. 5, which is especially j )
addressed to me. I i
The word immortality has, in my conception, two distinct meanings, j |
It may be used in the sense of mere survival, without regard to fitness, or j!
in the sense which would appear to be attached in the New Testament j i
to the words “ eternal life,’’ and “kingdom of heaven,” or “kingdom !
of God.” This is surely always spoken of as something to he won by j
“ him that overcometh.” j
When a young man of exemplary life came to Christ to ask what he |
should do to inherit eternal life, our Lord replied that he must make ]
still further sacrifices, and we are told that he went away sorrowing. j
Christ then remarked, “How hardly shall they that have riches enter j
mto Kingdom of God." (Mark x. 23). [ j
St. Paul says that “ the gift of God is eternal life ” (Kom. vi. 23). i
And js not the very key-note of St. Paul’s teaching the recognition of a (j
continual warfare between the flesh and the spirit, the daily death unto j
sin, and new life unto righteousness ? And who among ourselves does i
not know the strife between duty and inclination, and the self-abasement ( |
consequent on yielding to the latter, to the exclusion of the former P j
All this is so obvious that I cannot but think that Mr. Moses is laying |
some trap to catch one less learned and less wary than himself. ( j
Every M.A. of Oxford will of course know that there are not wanting I i
writers who have endeavoured to prove from Scripture and the early 1 j
Fathers that the soul is naturally mortal, and that immortality is the j j
gift of the Holy Spirit. Even so humble a scholar as myself has heard |
something of the great Dodwell controversy on this matter, and one who :
has the advantage over me in the knowledge of Latin and Greek
authors must bear to be accused of the “pride that apes humility”
when he asks me for authorities.
But even among those who accept no Scriptural authority, there are
some who recognise in certain intuitional stirrings and impulses a pre¬
sumptive proof of the eternal life of the spirit; also that there are men
and women to whom such impulses are unknown.
It was not my wish to introduce a theological discussion, and I
thought that I had said, as I certainly now have said, my last word on
the subject. But since I have been forced to speak, I should like to say,
in reply to Dr. Wyld, that though it may be given to some to know the
“ secret of the Logos,” yet that the majority of persons require to
receive their teaching through human means, and that if this is to be
regarded “ with horror,” then we must shut up all our schools and
churches, even our lecture-rooms, in case some of the taught should sub¬
jugate themselves too entirely to the authority of their teachers. Alas,
in these anarchical times we need not fear an excess of obedience or
submission to discipline, even to the most undoubtedly heaven-sent
authority. Rather we may fear drifting into the condition of Charles
Kingsley’s Doasyoulikes, who gradually returned to the condition of
their ancestors, the apes. Emily Kislingbury.
Jan.13th, 1879.  
Sir,—I may be permitted to add a few words (I hope the last) on a
controversy which has already spilt over the sides of the original vessel
in which it was contained.
The Rev. S. Moses, in his last forcible and pithy letter, has recalled
combatants to the need of defining terms, and has asked whether “ if we
were to define what we mean by Spiritualism, would not a good deal of
fog lift ?” I am so thoroughly in accordance with him on this point, that
I think we should wait until some definition is offered, which would
stand a chance of being accepted by a majority, without excluding from
its principles any definite minority of thinkers. Mr. Stainton Moses
recognises the “ absolute divergence ” between his thoughts and mine.
Though I think the divergence is really less that he conceives, I am
pleased we both agree that it is only divergence, and that the radii
which represent our thoughts certainly originate in the same centre of
truth, and possibly terminate in the same circle. We see things in
different ways, but are alike pursuing the same method of investigation.
The old scholastic rules of Adrian Heereboord {Praxis Logica, annexed
to Wiq Synopseos Logicce, l2mo. London: 1676) applies to us both;
and they say that the opponent should do just what neither of us at
present can do. For Heereboord says (1. c. p. 296) that it is required
of the opponent “ ut sententice respondents directce contradicat; quod ut
fiat oportet ante omnia diligenter thesin respondentis considerare, et
accurate despiceret quomodo ei antithesis directs opponi possitP
With Mr. Enmore Jones I am in accord on many points, especially
on that of avoiding all sectional religious surmisings.
From Dr. Wyld’s views I cannot recognise my divergence, but rather
my polarity. There is evidently no common ground of faith or belie
between us. I, of course, do not claim that the “ secret of the Logos
has been especially revealed to me, and am curious to learn the source
whence such (to me, occult) information can be derived. As for the
supposition that those Spiritualists, and others who have joined the
Catholic Church, or who are in it, should be regarded with “ horror,” as
if we were “ elusive wild beasts,” the world has now passed this in¬
tolerant epoch. All religious polemic is rarely convincing to an
adversary who argues on faith and morals from a point diametrically
the reverse of one’s own. The alleged “ subjugation to a priesthood ”
by those Spiritualists, who like Mrs. Nichols, and others prefer to
worship the God in whom they believe in the manner of their ancestors,
bears a very different appearance inside and outside of the Catholic
Church; and I heartily commend some passages in Billuart (tom. ii.
p. 110), and in the introduction to Fefsler’s True and False Infallibility,
to all candid friends and foes. “ The Church,” says Pallevicini, “as
far as may be, has ever abstained from imposing upon the minds of
men that commandment, the most arduous of the Christian law, viz.,
to believe obscure matters without doubting ” (quotation from Ryder’s
Idealism on Theology, p. 25.) The vagueness with which the
opinions held by members of the Catholic Church (Spiritualists or not)
are often conceived by outside persons, has led in too many cases to an
assumption that those who have worked out the problems of immortality
with scholarship (and something more) are inferior to the mere text-
chipper. I must, however, confess my entire ignorance of the time and
place, when the Roman Church “took upon itself—for a consideration
—to organise a belief for” Mr. Ellis; while my reading of a few
Hebrew records is so far in accordance with the opinion of Captain
Burton, whose “ very objectionable ” {sic) paper reflected some of the
thoughts of the Jewish psalmist (Ps. 113) : “ Non mortui laudasunt te,
Nomine ; neque omnes qui descendant in injernum."
  C. Carter Blake.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—I hope you will allow me a small space in your valuable paper
to express my gratitude to the healing medium, Mrs. Annie Loomis.
From my childhood I have suffered from a weakness of the spine,
causing me to lose control of the nerves of my face, and producing an
impediment of speech that was most distressing to me. I was induced
to call on Mrs. Loomis by a friend, who assured me that her cures had
been most astonishing, and that she could certainly cure me. I doubted
that any power could be found to relieve me of my distress, and had
been doctored for years in vain. I have been under this lady’s treat¬
ment for a month, and my progress has been miraculous. I can now
talk with perfect freedom, and the nerves of my face are under absolute
control; my spine has been renewed, and I am better than I have been
for eighteen years. I regard Mrs. Loomis’s power as something
beyond explanation, and I am grateful to her more than I can express
in words. W. A. Aldous.
Loughborough*road, S.W.
Jan. 17, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
35
TO LAUNCELOT.
BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.
Yes, Launcelot, I forgive you ! Let it pass !
You have no line by which to gauge my pain;
My tears to yours are molten lead to dew;
My grief a torrent to light summer rain,
Which the first sunbeam changes to a smile.
Bo I forgive you all that bitter wrong—
My fruitless prayers; my barren, scorching tears;
My days and nights of sullen, blank despair—
But not because their memory has passed—
I never shall forget!
For, look you here, my friend,
Whose friendship bid so fair a thing to be,
When first it dawned upon my life’s eclipse;
We were set wide apart in the world’s fair
Till Fate unkindly jostled us.
Was J the one
To court the curse you cast upon my soul ?
Who was it sent me missives, day by day,
Teeming with tenderness, that made my heart
Blossom anew with hope ?—who spared no pains
To meet me, and would sit, hour by hour,
Speaking the silent language of the eye,
In longing, lingering looks that stirred my blood,
To answer them, and when, with doubting lips
That scarce could credit their own happiness
I made low-voiced and tremulous reply,
Whose song burst forth in passionate burning strains
Whose every cord is graven on my heart
In notes of fire ?
Yet, oh, my Launcelot,
Think not I blame for this—it was no wrong;
Ah! no ! it was a dear delicious dream
That lulled us both to sleep beneath its spell;
The wrong was yet to come.
Startled, we woke,
Perceived our danger, and resolved to love
As we had loved, no more!
Can you forget
That hour, when circled by each other’s arms,
And mingling prayers with kisses, tears, and smiles,
We knelt within the shadow of the fane,
And rendered up to Heaven, Heaven’s right ?
I left that sanctuary, calm and at peace.
False peace! delusive calm that promised faith,
And rest, and friendship in the place of love !
Friendship! how sweet a name it seemed to me!
Who would have laid my poor existence down
Sooner than wrong you by a word or look.
I had high thoughts of cheering you through life,
Of giving counsel, solace, aid, relief.
Doubling your pleasures, halving all your woes,
And walking hand in hand with you to Heaven.
Alas! how quickly on the hard, cold rock
Of Prudence was my fond hope made a wreck.
For soon perplexities and doubts beset
The course of e’en our friendship, and you feared
(Yes, Launcelot, start not at the word) you feared
To keep your promise, and like him of old,
The weak disciple who denied his Lord,
You turned a traitor to the cause of love,
And silently disowned it.
On your path
The sunlight beat too fiercely, and you wore
A spotless shield, and dreaded lest my touch,
Which would have clung to you through good and ill,
Should tarnish it, and loosen slander’s tongue
Upon your footsteps’ track.
It was as though
We buffeted the angry waves of life
Together. Far above our heads there drove
The dark tempestuous clouds, and all around,
As far as eye could reach, the rocking sea
Threatened to engulf us ’neath its crested foam,
When suddenly upon the treacherous tide
Floated a raft—a little ark of peace—
A place of safety, but with room for one.
Launcelot f you reached, and grasped, and boarded it,
And left me struggling with the waves alone.
I saw you ride triumphant to the shore,
On your bright hair the sunshine, and your lip
Wreathed with a smile, derisive of my fear.
I stretched my arms towards you as I cried—
“ Launcelot! my Launcelot! leave me not to die.
Come back, if but to give one last embrace,
Turn your face towards me for one cheering smile,
Throw me a word of comfort on the blast.’’
But still the tempest raged, and on you rode
Lightly and gallantly above the waves,
Whilst I sunk deeper with each fruitless aim
To save myself—to follow you—or die!
Would God that I had died—that you had placed
Your cruel lips to mine, and sucked away
My breath; or laid your cold heart to my own
And stilled its beating; or had grasped my throat
And strangled me ; it had been kinder far
Than thus to throw me back upon myself—
My prayers unanswered—my deep love denied,
Or mocked, as though it were an idle thing
That ne’er had been, or being, worth the cost.
Bereft—forsaken—astrayed—I sunk back
A senseless atom on the foaming sea,
And only waked to know that I was mad.
Aye! you may smile who never felt a grief.
To equal half I spent on your untruth.
But, God forgive me, if I were not mad;
And at times am so still.
For is it sane
To doubt the faith of Heaven because frail man
Has failed us ?
Yet is this the bitter wrong
You wrought me, Launcelot!
I had once above
A Father Who cared for me. He is gone !
His voice is silent, even as your own.
No longer now can prayer relieve my pain,
Barren and stagnant, it comes back to me,
To make my guilt the greater, and I pray
And hope no more! I only know
That such things were, and ceased with you to be.
Oh ! Launcelot, in your hour of success,
When all was joy around you, and the world
Looked on and said, “ Well done!” was there no cry
To break the stillness of your summer dream ?
No sound of failing voice above the surge
Of tempest ? No sad vision of pale hands
Beating the air in anguish ? nor with dawn
A dead heart floating on the morning tide ?
Aye! dead for ever—cast upon the shore
Of life ! a pulseless, nerveless thing
Without the power of action!
Never more
To bound with joy, or weep at other’s woes
To love as it loved you, or hardest thought
Of all, remember that God holds a Heaven
In store!
This is what you have done for me !
How often in those days when love was ours,
You held me closely in your arms, as though
To shield me from the future, while your voice
Prophetically sad, would murmur low
“ My own! My own! where is all this to end V'
Now can I answer you! Here is the end,
O lover ! Here th’ exchange you made with me !
A life laid waste—its brightness quenched and dead,
Its faith extinguished, and its hope left cold.
God! when I think what one kind word from you,
Bestowed on me ere grief turned to despair,
Might not have done!
Had you but cast one look
Of tender pity for my needless pain,
Or sent one line to say you grieved with me,
Or never should forget I had been yours,
I might have risen from the place I fell,
Wounded and bruised, indeed, but still with hope
And courage for the future. But you knew
My yearning for the sign of love, and yet
You passed by on the other side, and left
Me (may you never know how much) alone !—
And yet I pardon you! Yes ; from my heart,
The heart you broke, my Launcelot, I forgive,
For I have learned your character to read
With eyes made clearer by my loss, and see
You wounded me as children wound in sport,
The butterfly they handle and destroy—
You never really loved me.
This is truth,
From which my tears have washed all gloss away
Until it stands out boldly and distinct
Upon the cold, dead wall of my belief;
Else, had you cared for me with half the tide
Of passionate feeling I poured over you,
Could you—as to this very hour you do—
Speak lightly of that miserable time,
And smile at memories by chance evoked ?
Or had my kisses stung as yours stung me ;
Or my caresses held so strange a charm,
Would you, whilst in my presence, give away
To others the same looks, same words,
Same sweet embraces, as were once my own?
So far, then, I acquit! You have no heart!
And children have no plumage ; so they brush
The bloom from off the hapless insect’s wing,
And leave it maimed and useless evermore.
As you have left my bruised and bleeding soul,
Yet I forgive; can you forgive yourself ?
I think I hear you answer, “ You are strong.
You know that this must be. Bury the past,
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 17, 1879.
"Which was a phantasy, and take the good
The present offers you.”
No, Launcelot! no!
You gave me gold, you took it back again ;
I will not murmur, but retain your dross
For such as have not touched a purer ore.
Oh! I am strong to bear! I am not dead.
See how I live, and move, and breathe, and work,
And sleep, and take my ease, and say my prayers ;
Yet am I not the woman that I was !
Oh, Launcelot! if you ever had one grain
Of love for the poor creature that you held
Next to your heart, weep for her! She is gone.
And, in her stead, a reckless, hardened thing
Who knows not God, discredits all her kind,
Believes not in a Heaven, and fears no Hell.
Yet there must be such places since you pray ;
I see you often kneeling, with calm eyes
Cast upward, and your palms together clasped,
And ell your thoughts engrossed by things above;
Whilst I—I hide my face upon my hands,
And groan within myself to feel the power
Of prayer and thanksgiving and gratitude
All vanished, with the knowledge that your vows
Were but a snare to lure me to my doom!
Oh, if there be a Future for us both,
Pray for me, dearest (dearest still to me—
Dearest for ever!). Pray, too, for yourself,
Lest, when we meet before God’s throne above,
And His stern voice commands me to depart
From out His sight for evermore, I should
Cast back and look on you—one mingled look
Of love, reproach, and utter blank despair
As may transform your Heaven to a Hell—-
As deep, as dark, and endless as my own.
MR. LAMBELLE AT LADBROKE HALL.
We have received the following letter:—
(To the Editor of(i The Spiritualist.”)
Sir,—I see in your last under the above heading a long statement
relative to an address delivered at Ladbroke Hall. The former com¬
munication on the same subject and by the same person I had thought
would have been replied to by an independent party; but business, I
am told, prevented him actualising his intentions, and so, I suppose,
because the last was allowed to go unchallenged, your correspondent
fancies he may go on again and add insult to injury,
A very small portion of your readers being present on the occasion
referred to, very few of them are in a position to judge in the charge
preferred against me ; and as evidence is requisite on both sides before
judgment can be given, I beg to be allowed to make a few remarks to
that end. To those who have no other means of ascertaining the true
facts of the case but from the report furnished by Mr. Stock, and
which appeared in your journal, there can only be one conclusion, and
that the one indicated by Mr. Stock; but a judgment which proceeds
from ex parte statements only would not be accepted by any moderately
informed mind. If the report be a faithful record of my unconscious
utterances, then there would be ground for entertaining the charge;
but if, on the other hand, the same report can be proved a hollow,
trumped-up fabrication of falsehoods, the whole affair recoils upon the
would-be despoiler. Many of my friends have asked me to reply and
refute the report; but my plan has hitherto been to maintain an even
course, indifferent to the opinions of anyone, and in this spirit I
allowed the correctness of the report to go unchallenged. I am not
backing those whose opinions are, in every sense, equally valuable with
those of Mr. Stock, and those friends assure me, and are willing to
prove, that the report was both unfair and misrepresenting; the testi¬
mony of those would hold good in any court of law equally with that
of Mr. Stock or any other person, even though he have a handle to his
name. And I claim as much right to say that Mr. Stock has cooked a
report to suit his own ends, as he has to impute dishonesty of motive
to me.
Now that the subject has been brought before the public tribunal,
and my character placed at stake, let me ask your readers to
consider the following points before robbing me of my unsullied
reputation:—
(«) The report was furnished by Mr. Stock himself, therefore
subject to the colouring of his own mind, and is essentially one-sided.
(b) The report was written from “very rough notes taken on a
blank page of a hymn-book,” and admittedly “ a good deal altered.”
(c) The report was inaccurate, and contained not even the leading
thoughts of the address in question, but is, in reality, the reflex action
of the mind of the would-be critic.
(d) That though points of resemblance might be found, they in no
wise prove that the whole is an “ audacious plagiarism,” or else the
same might be said of authors in innumerable instances.
If, then, the report can be proven to be an invention, as many can
testify, and as the whole charge rests upon its veracity, it seems un¬
necessary to occupy further your time and space with a refutation of a
most flagrant lie, to cry down an exceedingly dishonourable act, or
to resent the cruel, heartless, and uncharitable conduct of one whose
education and social position should have been sufficient safeguard
against such mean, contemptible acts. It is too bad to have one’s
character taken away by persons who have nothing else to do than
defame every one they meet; but the worst is there is no inducement
to practise deception.
Fancy living on bread and water, and sacrificing everything which
the world holds dear, and then falsify a conscience under such con¬
ditions by unprincipled conduct. For what ? To make known what
to me is eternal truth and a blessing incalculable. Had Spiritualism
proved an El Dorado, gain might have been imputed to me ; but,
thank God, I am clear of that, as the only return I received for my
five Sundays at Ladbroke Hall was a paltry 2s. 4d. A hearty lot to
make one play the fool, damn a conscience, and destroy peace of mind
by placing one in continual fear. I had thought the days of perse¬
cution and narrowmindedness were consigned to the limbo of the past;
but recent experiences make me feel that it is as rife now as ever, and
has only assumed fresh forms.
I am sorry to ask you to give me so much space to defend my
position, but the importance of the case, the gravity of the charge, and
the consequences at issue have forced me to this length. My name,
character, and reputation remain to the present unsullied by any dis¬
honourable actions, and I cannot suffer my honour to be ruthlessly
taken away by one who fails to comprehend the subject and practical
bearings of mediumship. The assertions made can be sustained,
and, if so, I think your readers will concede that the treatment to
which I have been 4.objected is cruel, and deserving of pity rather than
censure.
It seems most strange that if a person expresses new thoughts and
ideas he should be ridiculed and despised for his pains ; yet if he
gives utterance to thoughts already known, and attempts to elucidate
and apply certain conclusions previously known, that he should be
denounced as an arrant impostor. There is no escape from the per¬
verted inclinations of some minds, and Mr. Stock seems to be one of
those irascible, discontented beings.
It is useless for me to protest my innocence of the crime imputed to
me to such unreasonable prejudiced minds, but I do hope that the
more serious portion of your readers will pause before denouncing me,
or allowing the unbecoming language of this “ man of letters ” to
influence their minds. I ask them to judge fairly, and if a doubt
exists, which it will be patent there does, that I may have the benefit
of the doubt. To God and my own conscience I am clear, and if
mortals fail to accept the truthfulness of my statement, I know that
there are those who give me every assurance of my innocence and of
the sincerity of my motives.
I leave the issue careless of the result, and pray that strength may
be given to bear the rod of persecution as others have done before me.
W. H. Lambelle.
139, Marylebone-road, N.W.
[Both sides having now had their say, this correspondence must close.
The charge made in the above letter [against Mr. St. George Stock—a most
honourable and upright man—of having told a “ flagrant lie ” is, of course,
without a shadow of foundation, and will have no weight with anybody. We
should not have printed the letter containing the accusation, but that Mr.
Lambelle naturally claims the right of reply over a matter of the most vital
importance to his character.—Ed. Spiritualist.
At the next Sunday evening lecture on “ The Religion of Spirit¬
ualism,” by Mr. J. William Fletcher, at the Cavendish Rooms, Mor-
timer-street, London, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., will
preside. The music by Miss C. Leslie Younge.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
; Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Jan. 17, 1879
THE SPIRITUALIST
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey,
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is- illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BT ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
TheReformei „ IV. „
The Thinker. „ V. . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
Arabuia, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
©hildren’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures •
s. d.
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spikitualisi Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my.Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway! M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
hy Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . ■ . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or bOOfor Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
• “ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—Smith Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
-and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
camagejpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London; W. II. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges ,
The new book hy
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works hearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R.Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayeuis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested hy C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, E.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free. .
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of ihe
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by; Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life op Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals.
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI—Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Yon Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated hy Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXI11.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Os.on.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis-
Ungbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrison.
XL Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XLI Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII Epigrams. By Gerald Massqy.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE A^D
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
"W.C. Price Id.: post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
IV
THE SPORTSM^'N,;fe
* 'ASK*
’ $1S ®S
Is the recognised lfa.jf|p|^e^«g!i^llyro^M^|conrieetegpritn
' v.; :fi
oouRsma, ^OAGBi^Gf^^r&'c.^&c.#-;
Articles and letters hy/allth^diest’authorities/ -1# 5 N ’t
, /(‘AVtekly* *■ Price Id.
mm
Promit tieiSiifjrMng ■Ctirmiole; Novemtog idth-i ’■ '%i ; jl
“ rer]iaps.ifewou!d‘:uot l>c oi11;d/jp]acc^
if not the h^Q^gert^pf'^e;f5jpW3®jn]^AO^S®jK5l3g&ielK
anpea,rs*id'wr!new.c'Qnteint)ofaEyxfefeH&B|S£itA-t^fe?irof^wAr^
and: J£xaimsi$\G.UX.UH!;: 'a- very'I’earlossVanXl •.tiu^ovcriiicisni,
findeviMj/^jm&Qvm-69jm:£sm0Z'\'.'.>' f
}s-> frfie,'<7i!^[:||cloth.-,’ • '•<
''tflki:W!ry ^ . PflizqiEssays.' . .t--1
TDffi' 1PBOBARLE EFFECTS OF • SPIRIT-|
UAilSM. UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND'REEI-j
0-I0USv CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays , by MIssj'
Anna,^Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
^TijESE jESSAYS WON THE FIRST AND SECOND .-GOIiD^MeD^<»:
jpp^FHE British National AssooiATioiii)F,SpiRiTOALifraii
The/Spiritualist Newspw.er jEr|i^:h Hi^p^Ii^dpn,,-: ^ |
'tmmmuL*; "" ft' ^
, , ’Hy EUGENE ORdWELL,' M.D, ' ‘ * * H
f Y''» t ' 7 n • ofKi * ' ', • . '•*
One of:the best hooks published in connebtion'with, Mo.dejrn J
SpiritijaUsm :|pt, many^yea,rs, ahd!i.a: stanj(iard''y?,prtooftiiBet
Eubjeet. The ahthOr has studied thp‘fa6tsahd ptenfSjieniSforf
a lengthened period,^and deSils.ii^-an^tftliigenj rflanner withi
the problems and difficultiespreseaited. , < S .: ^ ■ fafl
In two voIs/priee'lOi^'edyeach ;s postage 8d.'iteP.Y0ltitte.f-) j
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. ' ■
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
, thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which ,at the outset
i opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery: of the? rotation
> of’the earth.
> • The Dialectical.Society, “under the, presidency of^Sir John <
1 Lubbock, appointed’a larg& commlittee, whi6h' for two years ■
! ihyestigattld the‘phehomena’,occurrin^ in tlfe'presMiCepJ, pq|i- ■
professierAl mediums, and finally reported thaf't'he facts were <
true, that the raps and' other noises go vemed by'intelligence s
were real, and' that' solid'obj'ppts'sorrietimes mpved ihttie'pre' f
' sence of mediums without ;bging tohched?**':^; ?J |
Mr. William'Crookes,'<FiRlS:^editor<of the Q,ua/rter)y Journal f
1 oP'Science, deviser ofHhp Radiometer, Bh'd discoyerer 6f ttbe}
new m.etal thallium, investigated’" the phenomena1: of Spim- :
ualism in his own'hottsb, “and reported? them* tb be’true.' Mr. f
A. R. Wallace, Mr.CrpmwelljVarlayjigripf. Zollneh'and a gyeat <
number ol intelligent prolessidnaj mlh have dope we same^
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should'begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger j
present, and without deception by any member of the family, j
r At the present" time there ape,only about half*ardqzen prg- j
fessionah.mediums for the "physical, phenomena in all Great I
."Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not), they arersb, few, in number as to'be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move- i
ment.of; modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves •. agaihst'any imposlors who' may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
vwtich cost nothing, thus sho wing-how egregiously those are
duped.who trust in worthless a,uthprities.
.One" or more persons possessing medial powers without
krfowing ' it are to be iound.in neatly every household, and
about one new circle in three,, formed according to thefollow-
, ing instructions.", pht&ihs’the phenomena
1..Let arrangements be made that there shall, be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting,of;the circle.^
2. Let the circle consist of four, .five,, or, six - individuals,
about the same number of each sex.; Sit',in* subdued light,
but suffiMent to allow everything to be seen’clearly,"round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the' palms of the hands" in
contact with fits top surface. Whether’the hands touch each
other or notis,of little importance.- Any table will do.
• 3. Belief or- unbelief has ho influence on the manifestations,
but an. aqridj feeling against them is weakening.
l 4. Before""thfe ihanifPstations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation, or, in singing, and it is best that neithef
should be'of- ayfriyorbus nature.
, 5. The first ^symptom of. the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
, indications will probably be^aSle tiltings or raps. ■ ■
’ 6. When mbtioris Of the tiible*or serUnds are-produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one pel son only-speak; hb should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being.y'Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean‘‘Yes,’,’,one,mesons.“No,” and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether,, the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given inlanswer,’then say, “If
‘ I speak the letters of the alphabet -slowly, 'Will - you: signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and .spell-us out a
message ? " Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time'an'intelligent system of ‘
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such !
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better- class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany 'such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena.1''After the manifestations Are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give wayt o an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more aboutt hem or the contents of messages than they ate
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present,, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
;d,1 "'l
“ freafCroi
iA
Jan. 17, 1879.
. , .,, ,./j^^P^HShe<LTn^
Priea^geyenShillings-and Sixpenceipo.st free, Crown 8to,-richly gilf,
T jA ^ ' '■ ■'&
a - i A N d|p Rib'^E I M A G I N*IH G S Kf, f Kf* S
}.£■.. HARMSOjap-; ’ . , '3
.iv'.AnffiTeganWndArsusihgsGift-Book of .-Poetical' aud!'*iPro9e.’-t; *
W’MmW* H^-.'WgCT^yqrgve and . |
tThe giitfcei%e|bh%i6''OTveFfresigned by I’lofenoe ;GItkton and fee'
Aiithor' f
■ Contents.
IbPart 1.—Miscellaneous Poems andJ’rosen'Wptings. f
the Lazy Author.—2. .TheiSorigof theWTewspaper
SEditor.—3.'fflie'Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6’.'The
slj'ayofffthe ’Pat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7.’ How-Hadji
AlrShacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacahac,
i, a, gentleman who visited Londourf on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali MustanhaJBeji Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bncffi.’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. ‘’Fast Palls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13Materialistic Religion.—13.1 The- Lay of the Photographer.—
i4.'-/How, to .Double the Utility offtlje Printing Press.—15. The
Sohg.ohthe .M°th^r-iin-Law.-7-16., WirypUbeioegung.—17. “Poor Old
iflodi ’i-?18. ffibe< Human -Hive!—19. .The Lay of the Mape-Bearers —
20.SML'oyelSQng—2i:vA:Wision.—22. JiUndenthc1'-Limes.”—23.,The
-'AhgSWbf
^romi 2%e Bristol Daily Post.
nmAf'lyersjis and' probe, essays of unequal
......  sentimental verses'belong to the type
rsmem'an^oKLjTOsL^s.produotions.’f-’fiW
fAqurijkis :c
lt?S^f he se;
gM^MifflifeMMTithorSofiiffiimost serious -vvorks.l
ai’eralwa^ROBiglnai;- sometimes serious, genermly d
^ ^ "i .'
- . - •' L News. 8 ^Kg
■teisfete original, an<ivfik.cast of its I
Ir’skrihm^Olib'afvvork.o^fgreaRpower and?ne§utY; full of
.gml ,v .4 #/» «> *.Opinions qf, TH§iE?ES®»*Hs -» s*|. 1
From The Morning^ & 1
'&>Th.e~iMorning Po!sf^which strongly recommehds^thejiookfin a*
, reyieSw’nearly*a'columnvlongRsays :-r‘5iC6Mq|limrattiret?whlcli,;
^honestly.ddeerves .-thei epithet seems toibe^rapldly*becoming- al'
i tlflngiofthe past;4ponseQuently-any writer^vhd, lik&Mr# Harrison,’
L'eJalffiirrMenuiBe v^ifjpfJHimour, deservpslthe^raisgjQf all whoj'
'arefiiqtjoq'atifuid‘x.0'da]ofe.ah Innoce'ntlaugh.'IfNfttthatflis mils®
■Restrrets'fiieftfflf nmyTo shih lighter utterhnSeb; 'omthh contrary,?
,spme-MhiSiboematpuch. onthevdeepest ati'd'mo’st^icfedfeelings
i o‘f»Upii®offimdn''ltum ftrtityy?. ’ftic unforttmate -Hadji’ sinartative,
pfTOftaa,ye9l»uresfamongStAho-EBagiciansjofiWhiteohapelfis.qfiitei
. mi:efOLtne^fu4fBiest«t!iiugSfiUiat lias •beep published fowryearsfi-.r. *
Thejb'pok?,cpiilaa,ins .quite, enough to ensure fit a ’-weleome from
whlclir its !tasti(ilLappeai!OTlce will not detract.” TtielMorning
PdWsay&oTTue ffibgmaanidllpas“ No one can help'Jaughlpgi
‘'at tHlm^and'ifka^k that' tlte rhymes are pltched,in “ something,
like the sAhiencfiy®’1 as* The^'Bon Gaultier Ballads or The^BigTbv):
/,qpm,'“!wfth-aifapp!reciably suooessful result.”;1 • •'« HI
’ 'Frd'm The Court Journal.
“All are of. marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of;
great beauty,'showing that, tlie author possesses the pure poetic;
gift.’’ 1 . ■' *
Prom. The Graphic.
“..Those who can ahjiref&ite genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read y/iC Lazl]'Lays,and Prose Imaqmmgs. Written,,
printed, published-and reVieWed'hy William H. Harrison (38, Great}
Bussell-stmct). - Both-' the verses and the short essay%are real3yj
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein '.of geniaLsatire]
which adds piquancy/to the fun. The Lay of the Neihspdpfr Bailor
is capital,,if .ratheAsevere, and so, is The Lay.of.the fMacebaarers ;
hut one of thVntost laughahle bits is the Turk’s abebufit-df Bow he
wentRoheTB'btogi'a^lled^’-” • *—    
, JittU t ', Froxa,flubli<);Opimon. , t „ 4 ..A'..s*.
A volume of reiparkably good yerse.,.,. Some of ttieunet^cal ’
legends remind us of tne wild ciiants that used .to be sungjat the
meetings of.thefCannib’al Clutj,sqme ten or fifteen years ago. *f r. (
EramsOhflmw'ever.'^kntiws where to pi ant his - fnn.’ahdan' aecu- ’
rate-tscientmc n^pdlj^e;liiscap qiake. jpkes ^vith success.’, 1*. To]
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as alj
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
- i •« »,* .^t,.Proxa.TheBookseller. , ,
“An odd but most entertaining assortment- of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.” ■ ’
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint hears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077 j
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may-derive'a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”; ^ . ■
.’ , From Tfie British Journal of Photography J
“ The Lazy Lays Include many admirable pieces,‘some of .whioh ,
are ih verse and’ others in prose, some scientific, others social, but I
all of them excellent.' .J ./The Lazy Lays will make excellent and j
amusing reading for an-oebasioriaf spare half-hour.. .. They con¬
tain nothing unrefined Or’in had taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji Al Shaoabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
.considerable facility of. versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with; many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.” ,
_Frejm The'Scotsman. .
.“ In Mr. .W,. H. Harrison’s Lazy Laysl'and Pr.ose .Imaginings
there isa good deal of broad humour and sajiric power, with a due
foundationof .solid sense.”
. ; From The Bradford Daily Chronicle. jjj SHf
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced I
a most welcome hook...‘How, Hadji al Shacabac was-Photo-]
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.” '
S From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
„ “ With such a free and easy author It is naturallyto.be expected ;
.that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and, indeed they are as free and easy as himself.. ’.. The -
poems are all characterised by smoothness andrhythmical swing.
... The workfis .very elaborately bound in cloth and giit.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If oui readers wish.to .en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving,’objecUin-a very I
-clever and versatile member of the order.”.—' I ®f"** zt. ■■ I
~ Prom The Liverpool Daily Courier.
t “ In his handsomely bound and .griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr. I
.William-H; Harrison provides a gift-book.elegant in its appear- ]
ance and entertaining in-'its contents... . The author Is imbued
-with fiie true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending |
none.” . .4
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A.voiuin.4 from'the versatile .pen of Mr. .W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the,London and provincial jiress, and ,
editorkir YVi<T Spiritualist.. 77 Many o! Ifie humorous poems re- j
mind ug o f the Ingoldeby (Legends.> The Lay of the. Photographer {
The'■'Lay^ofHlie’Macebearers, ahfhsome’of The Wabblefaw’Ballads j
would nptUigvepeen, un>yorUiy,oifijarliam>himsgl^ »SqipejOf^tlie j
shorter ’poems gpe,’exqpisite, and; there...pe,rvaqe tlje-M^olA.aReli- j
gious se'iitimpnthntoppfic Rppljng which will make?th®tn,accept- ,
able to most reaflers.] :y , ; . m •
’ -ff: Fkom the daily'AfhHBera (Helftiit). i
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al .Shacababvwas
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to -our not too ’ex¬
pensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea ; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.’!
^'^zS^e^Mksington News.
vn’ Hood, Matte:Twain, or any
'WldilmlPfM^pMk^PijnifsfeaAinuchgOOdjA their day and I
oTtn not. HAr^n s wnrlr a, Lays
B|comie, but
jSSB -ProxalTlie-ilglv 'ern News.'
Hti
anthof.’f ■■ ■
lively ImA^fflhg^.-flptt.lbqjdAni^ignfikftTii- .thniights? - abounding in
IteudeEfiEsSrShfl pavliqs KspatKnngYvith wit and humour; and one
fih'athnayjliexeffdiniahy■ tiirfeB-over: 1 i.The got-up of the huolc is
-vetyfiianp.gQmfl^f^i'% J
t v * iW v« a ; <'
•“ Amum&E' off, cleveLsketbhfesfeMlpoemSrf apiong thq]latter
.beingjja series ofipapeKS^Cntitled f&e W.obUeJaw-Bailads,‘yfXi\c,h.
rappeargdyL'n*’' thej'cmumnsr'pf..*'t'liiwS)apei,r h shopt I time t-ago,
aiia'’-Avfiichtlei;eated': sucqAa y%<)for4\»atAthe >;tiihe.’’hrVNkBJ.An
irate memms ojnHe ‘Tbw^^ou'i<n^imialM'caUe(Vjth^atieh^on of
the MayormnafGoroorktion- of(:Fdlkat^l^tO;.theJ)urlesgueT,in. the
“ WobMeMwvBdllad^fp'uwi?hetm0rnb$m>, assembled'tdugnedbat’tthe
matter^ and proeeedeqsio the-.nM business. ^The Mayortssafabthatthe
; did not mind '/Ae//;?T ■.;.''y“,:Iti;.coMainsvSQme-.very choice inicpis
and prose essays, ItjfiiOufldHj) has an original
■ design of no ordinaryiment-ontth^^w^®' -,
Obtainable, price-isy'ed'., posl'fred,'ag^he-BribcMOffioe ofAhe
Spiritualist -c i*mi
4 ' MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,’* W
OR
BBHijN ] ANIMAL4RMAGNETISM^ '4 <jf
JofeiWMt-GRjiGQR^jMED,, J&pfawfr'jsf.
Chemistry WMdinbufgh ‘U'h.itiemityh d 1
' Dedicatee* by the: Author by ..Permission to His.-Grace
Lt ,< ■''thfe 'Duke'-'of* Arigyll,* "'V'f '*
->ThQ*secpnd and,;. slightly revised,,, and abridged', editiop, for
itrqliSlity and Slzethe'chfeapest large .workmver published
in this'country iri'coiine'ctioh'witB Spiritualism.
Just, published, pjice .Sd*.'; 6r,'Cs. 6d. post freeV orvflvo copies
ippBt;free" for421S. : Qdpies 'maj-y alsPtbe' had bound in half
’•calf, with marbled edges,priceiSsSed."-per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or .Mesmeric
' Staitfe—It Occurs’Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—PhenomensC^pf
, the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
' Pain.
1, -.CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Sub-
»ject In YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
J aid Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Dfegtees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
| Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
. State of Commands Given in the SJeep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy- Community of Sensations; of
Emotions— Danger'of'Rash!'Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
1 Doubtful Advantage l— Sympathy.with vthe.Bystanders —Thought;
; Rfeadlng—Hources’of Error—Medical1 Intnttioh—Sympathetic Wam-
iugs—Symiia lliies' and Aitipatliie's—Existence of a Peculiar Force
t or llifluciiw.. * vr.-
i GHAFTER TV;—Direct1ClairVdyance or ’ Ltfcid Vision, without
J the Eyes—Vision’ of, Near Ohiects: thcpUgh' Opaque/Bodies r‘at a
’ Distance—Sjonpathy and.Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
" —Retrovisitm—Introvisidm' *w'‘ *'
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of-Sleep. etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the. Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others ^ Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovisiqn
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousnefe in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-BiOiogy, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the’same—Phenomena of Suggestions In
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—Thfe Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmerior-'
* Trance Produced,at Will by,the Sabjects—Col»Townsen4—TFakeers-—.
hAtaffl—ExtaUcsnot'airimposters-hLumiiiousDnianMiohS^-ExfMSfEi
, often Predicted—M.‘ Oraiagnet s Extat jes—V isibna Of the S )i ritual
'World. r«wv* yjr7,r 7,,." ■
^ CHAPTER VIII: PhteiK)*-MesiMrisirfe:ProgMss ot 1‘nrenoiogy—
“Effects of Touching thefifead in tne Bleep—Vanety.in the Phenom-
'eim—‘Suggestion—SympathRT-There' are-^usuff in .vrajcliithese Act,
aqd others-in which' they dq mot Acth-PhenOnfeha'Descnbed-TTTie
* Lower Animals Susceptible' ’of Mesmerisfn—Fascination Affiqqg
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy", of Animals — Snail.Telegraph
Founded on It. 1 i .
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets,prystals. etc.7on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence’which Causes, the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic Or Mesmeric.'Eight—AuroraaBorealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised - Water — .Useful • Appliratioris’-of
Mesmerism—Phsysiologicai;'Thqrkpeutical, etc.—Treatjnelit‘of Tnsan-
ity. Magic, Divination, iVitchc,ratt‘eto,^,exnlained hjL’Mfesriferfsni;
and Traced to .Natural£Cause3—AppaNtjoirf — ^erondJ-Sight isR
WakingCIairvoyance—Predictions otVarioils Kinds. ^'
CHAPTER* X :—An Exn&naxioit of thePhenoiriena"Attempted or'
Suggested-3A.Force,(Odyte) Universally’Diffused. Certainly Exists,/
and i|<Probably the Medium of,Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Hs
Chardcters—Tfifficulties orfthe Subiecf—Effects of Odyle—Somnam-
Sbullsm—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
OdyltejBmanatlons—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
.Magic' and Witchcratt—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror. etc.VInduce
'Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism* byJflen 'of‘Science
3—Due Limits of Scientific Cantion—Practicabilities—ConditiOnSiOf
’ Success in Experiments—C%use :,of'Failure-^Mesmerism-a Serious
Thing—Cautions’to he Student^-OppdBitron to OffExpeCted.'
CHAPTER Xll:—PhenOm'ena . Qijservftl; in ^the Conscious eor
Waking State^EfrecttfOf'SuggeStioiiOhVPeite’ohs in dn'Impressihle
State—Mr. Lewis’s. TExperimefits With^iyl Without; Suggestion^*
•Case^-Dij. Darlink’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, •Prodtuyd by t Passes, or ’ by ' Coneehtration—Major
Buckley A Method-—’Cdses—The"' Ma^iC' Crystar-*Ifiduces ^Waking
Lucidity, whejijGazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian-Magic. . •
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
*Ei|lfP%utvof Nine- Persons Recently Tried by the AiithorThrown
into MesmeriQ Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
‘SubjeCtT-Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-MesffierLm' in the Sleep
—Sympathic•Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception-of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley's Case of Rettovision.
, CHAPTER XIV:—pirect Clgiryoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair-
voyant-f—C.-iS’.-s—Singular Visbn is of Mr. D,—Letters of Two Clergy-
taiaft.VttlTOafts—Olalrvoyance/qf Alex]%rOther Cases;
CIl'AP'i’ER *XV Trance — ExtasiS — Case.: — Spontaneous Mes-
>mem(SPheiioifi®fia^.Aimfe'Iti5fis—PrhdictiiiSis:: - '
.QlMPaXSRt 3WH:—Ourativ'e Mgdncy *of Mesmerism-—Concluding
ReinarlcSi^tdjSummaryt A f- < >. •
L'drfd^: ^.07 Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bevemdow & Go., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and Rt. George
the Martyr. London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
