Registered as a Newspaper.
m rnimect^h Mt^ S^trituali^m hi ($xmt %xitmx.
No. 408.—(Voii. XYI.—No. 25.) LONDON: FEIDAY, JUNE 18, 1880. Published "Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOYEK PLACE, EEGENT’S PAPE, LONDON, N/W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Pive Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May he obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Will be Published in a few days, containing striking selections from the writings of Me. William Crookes, F.R.S., Me. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., Me. A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., The Committee op the Dialectical Society, Professor Hare, of Philadelphia,
Professor Z6 llner, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Captain R. F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The w«rk will also contain some useful information for inquirers.
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS' FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated;’ and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they’give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the berefit of the sick and suffering/
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with naving written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
JuOT3 18, 1880,
A I. L A X KAEDEiC’S WOEKS.
ALLAN KARDEG (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth. Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1868). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tetjbnee and Go., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, Loudon W.C.
A New Invention.
MR. a E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, CORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stenrway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE T H E 0 SOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL
PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY, LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRO A UM BACK ROA-D, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to u The Proprietors of ‘ The TheosophistJ ”
at the above address.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HAKRISON.
This hook shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
.by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS
DR. JAMES MACK,
37, UPPER BAKER STREET, REGENT’S
PARK. At Home from 10 till 5.
D. YOUNGER,
Mesmerist, Mesmeric Healer, Medical Rubber,
gives private instructions. Mesmeric Seances and
Electro-biological Entertainments at Home or by
appointment. Can also supply Mesmeric Sensitives
for Private Experiments, At Home daily from 2 till 10.
Moscow House, 45, Moscow-road, Bayswater, W.
MRS, S. M. BALDWIN,
Has just arrived from America and taken Rooms at
No. 40, UPPER BAKER-ST., N.W.,
Where she will Heal the Sick by Laying on of Hands.
, At home from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
N.B.—Patients treated free on Tuesdays and
Fridays.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
"ATRS. WOODEORDE Any form
XtJL Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.O.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone road, Earls-court, S.W.
HELL OPENED TO CHRIS-
TIANS.—Thisjis one of the most objectionable
orthodox hooks ever published, and contains pictures
of the infernal regions calculated to strike terror into
the hearts of children and people with weak nerves.
Cloth, eight illustrations. Post free sevenpenoe.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch office, 33, Museum
Street, London, W.C.
npo LET FURNISHED, Respect-
able and Healthy Apartments, overlooking the
Park. Suitable for two Gentlemen, (Friends or
Brothers), partial Board if required. Terms Moderate.
No Children. Five Minutes from Bus, Tram, or
Rail, 275, Grove Villas, Victoria Park Road, N.E.
References Required.
ALLEGORICAL SKETCHES,
FOUNDED ON SPIRITUAL TRUTHS.
1. The Inward Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. 3. The
Two Voices. 4. The Invisible Teacher. Price Is. 6d.
Victoria Steam Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.
pHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
V_7 WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street,Bry ana ton-square, London,
No. 408.—VOLUME SIXTEEN
LONDON, FRIDAY,
NUMB EE TWENTY-FIVE.
JUNE 18th, 1880.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Eree within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and G-entlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Impeeial Highness Ni
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Loed Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baeoness Von Yay, Coun
tess Wurmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robeet Dale Owen
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandee Aksakof
St. Petersburg
Sie Chaet.es Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Bueton, F.R.G-.S
Alfeed Russel Wallace, Esq.
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Seejeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexandee Caldee, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Makdougall Geegoey
Geeald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
,5. C, Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
F. Podmoee, Esq., B.A. (Oxon)
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Ceowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speee, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robeet S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev, C. Maueice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.jL
C Blacxbuen, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Maekley, Esq.
Peince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baeon Yon Dieckinck-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J, W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M.Adelbekthdp Bouebon,First
Lieut, of the Dutch Guard to
the King of the Netherlands
M. L. F. Clavaieoz (Leon
Favre)
William Ceookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Yabley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. Geoege W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Qxon)
R. Feiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Saegent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. Geoege Wyld
W. Lindesay Richaedson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
J. 0. Luxmooee, Esq., J.P.
C. Caetee Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algeenon Joy, Esq., M.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGeeald,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.,
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Baekas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Maetheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Puedon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Mabryat
Madame Isabel de SteiGee
Inst.
Esq.,
B.A.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Yia Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bpcca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Yilla Nazionale, Naples;
87, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russeli-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 51. East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S.; Iteligio-philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
PSYCHONOMY IN ITS EELATION TO
KELIGION AND ETHICS.
f Concluded J.
BY J. A. OAMPBELXi, B.A. (CANTAB.)
Giving up altogether the hopeless endeavour
to discover what life is, the truly scientific
people of the world have contented themselves
with observing the progressive manifestations
of its activity. “We can think of life only as
the forming power in nature, the power which
gives their several shapes to things, or capaci¬
ties of shape, the power which gives to things
their several feelings or capacities of feeling.”
As we ascend the scale these workings become
more complex, more lovely. The life of a
flower is a higher thing than that of a crystal,
the life of the petals a higher thing than that
of the other leaves, the life of an animal is a
higher thing than that of a flower, the life of
a man than that of an animal. The life of the
part of him that seeks God and interprets in
their relations to him the mysteries of lesser
being a higher thing than that of the part which
merely feeds or desires.
Broadly and practically the line was drawn
at the last distinction. Formative and ap¬
petitive life below it, grouped under and ex¬
pressed by one set of words. Intellectual
and God-seeking life above it, grouped under
and expressed by another set of words. The
first you will find invariably associated with
the notion of structure of some kind, the
second never so associated.
* The lower life was called by ihe Greeks
the life of the Psucke, the higher the life of the
Nous. The definitions of each are thus given
by Aristotle. “ The Psuche ” he says, “ is
the simplest actuality of a physical body
which potentially possesses life, that is of an
organic body.”
The Nous alone enters in from without, and
is alone divine; realisation of the bodily con¬
ditions contributes nothing to the realisation
of its existence.
10. When S. Paul—I take him as the
representative of New Testament writers—
began his Epistles, fie found ready to his hand
* Of subdivisions I am here taking1 no account.
290
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 18, 1880,
these two words. The first he adopted as it
stood. The second he changed in order that
he might giye utterance to the mightier con¬
ceptions of Christianity, and adopted instead
of it an old Greek word that had been used
sometimes for the life of the Psuche, some¬
times for that of the Nous, sometimes for a
larger thought than either, that was gradually
growing up in the Greek mind.
The vivifying, sustaining, nursing, pitying,
guiding presence of the Father of Jesus, and of
all men; going to and fro in the earth ; brood¬
ing over the dark waters; dwelling in the humble
and obedient heart as in a shrine ; the breath
that goeth where it listeth, unheard and un¬
seen, the dove of the opening heavens; the
fire of pentecostal prophecy—that was the
paraclete of early Christianity, that was the
pneima of S. Paul.
When the time came for the translation of
our English Bible “ out of the original tongues,”
the English faith in the “ supernatural ” was
already waning; the days of Bluff King Hal
had been unfavourable to its growth, and since
those days religious people had not done much
more than fly at each other’s throats. Still the
translators were able to find words which to the
people might serve to express the difference be¬
tween the Psuche and the Pneuma of the Greek
Testament. The Saxon soul from Chaucer’s
time had been used in the sense of outer as
well as inner life, while the Anglo-Norman
Spirit was associated generally with the latter,
partly, no doubt, on account of the Sanctus
Spiritus of the Latin vulgate and mass-book.
Fate thus consecrating and preserving to us
language in which the sublimest “ seeing of the
invisible” of an Isaiah and a S. John might
be brought home to our England’s heart, in
which the panting, thirsting cry of her children
after righteousness, after the inward and the
real, might become articulate. Language, which
should Stand forth for ever as her protest in her
noble days against that resting in the external,
that seeking for signs, that trust in “ chariots ”
and u horses,” in rappings, and creakings, and
tappings; that peeping, muttering, shameless,
restlessness of her decline.
The knowledge of the spirit, “ Spiritualism”
it is a divine science, the best and holiest thing
that we can ever know, but it “comes not with
observation,” the psychical man does not receive
it, till silently, imperceptibly there grows up
within him a faculty of apprehension, and he
begins for the first time to live.
11. What is called Spiritualism is but psy-
chicism, the knowledge of the life conditions in
II non-material structure. There are too many isms
I in the world already, isms are apt to mean
I schisms, and we want this science of ours to be
| a uniting and not a dividing science, do we not ?
| We will try another suffix ! Psychology, which
| we may translate, I think, “ the science of
| psychic manifestation;” that was the title
I adopted as you know by the late lamented
I Serjeant Cox. The objection to it lies in the
| fact that Pyschology has already a place in the
| circle of recognised sciences, and means very
| reasonably the study of mental phenomena.
| Yet one more attempt—Psychonomy ! I intro-
i duce the word to you, I confess, a little shyly ;
| of course, I like it myself; not altogether, I
| hope, because it is of my own coining, but
I because it marks the character of our study as
| law revering, and law abiding, and also because
| it links us pleasantly to the heavenly science
| of those
“ Who. see the stars’ untroubled ways
And the divine of endless days.”
12. Think over what I have said at least care-
\\ fully. Take my new word or leave it as it
q seems good to you, who are better, wiser, more
)j experienced than I. But if the old word
j| remain with you, strive at least that it be no
s| longer the darkener of counsel, the support of
Jj delusion. Lift up your voice at least in the
>j midst of this festering materialism, and assert
S! with all the force that is in you the forgotten
<| truth. That the unphenomenal is the real,
U that structure exists only in order to embody
)j the Divine idea of perfect righteousness and
s! perfect love. That manifestations in them-
’ selves are of no value and become valuable
?| only in so far as they make clearer to us this
)| idea.
113. Incidentally throughout my paper I
| have dealt with the relations between Psycho-
| nomy, religion and morals, or between Psycho-
I nomy and Spiritualism. Suffer me for a few
I moments to deal with them in a more direct
| manner.
My definition of religion—the binding-link
| with that which is above us, has roused much
1 indignant criticism ; yet that is, after all,
| what it does mean. Religion may be good or
!J bad, pure or impure, false or true ; it may be
| the binding to an idol that our imagination has
| made and put in the place of God or to God
I himself, dimly or plainly discerned. It may
I be the binding to a human being or to a ma-
| terial or immaterial thing—to a wife, a friend,
| to our money, our ambition, our duty or our
I sin; it is the captivity in which our spirit is
I held to things in heaven, or things in earth,
June 18, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
291
or things under the earth. The Christian
religion is the binding of the human spirit to
Christ and through him to the Father. The
Mahomedan religion is the binding of the
spirit to Mahomed and through him to Allah.
The highest and holiest religion we can ever
attain to is the one that gives us the most ele¬
vating, the most just, the most perfect thought
of God.
I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what that
religion is ? Compare the most beautiful
teachings—and many of them are very beau¬
tiful—that you have ever received from the
Spirit "World, with the teachings given on the
Galilean Mount nigh twenty centuries ago:
does it .not include them and infinitely more
than include them ? Does it not take up
and amplify and vivify and cast light upon
the prophecies of all the world ? Is not the
saying of Goethe true, that the widest culture,
the deepest aspiration, reaches not beyond
Christ ? Accept from the other life, or from
this, whatever is worthiest. Eead with deepest
reverence the revelations of every Holy Prophet
of every land; you will find that no higher
light has been attained, because it is unat¬
tainable.
The right relation of Psychonomy to religion
is the same as that of every other science : it
has been beautifully expressed by a great
teacher of our own time.
<£ To religion belongs of right the sovereign
plan, and this because it is a more direct eman¬
ation from the divine source; it finds its response
in the deepest needs of our being; it is the
earlier manifestation in the history of our
race; the earlier in the life of the individual,
and it will be the last. But though its place
is primary, it cannot be independent of thought
and knowledge; nay, the religion of each age
must, in a large measure, be conditioned by the
state of knowledge existing in that age. We
see this in the past history of religion;
disastrous have been the effects, when religion
has tried to close itself against the rising tide
of knowledge; and the lesson of the past,
religious men would do well to learn, and keep
an open side to the influx of all the new know¬
ledge which each age achieves, andabsorb itinto
their religious convictions.” But when we
begin to lose from our lives the dependence
upon God, which is true religion, and begin to
depend upon other arms, however strong, in¬
stead of on His, that instant we have become
seekers from the living to the dead, our science
has made of itself a religion—we have become
idolators.
Psychonomy is no more a religion than any
other kind of natural science. That in one
branch of the legitimate sphere of her enquiry,
men are brought into communication with in¬
telligent, and enlightened, and moral beings, (I
wish this were oftener the case) no more con¬
stitutes a right to establish a religion of
Psychonomy, than does the fact of telegraphic
communication with the best thought of many
lands constitute a right to establish a religion
of telegraphy.
And that brings me to my last words on the
relation of Psychonomy to Ethics, or Morals,
the knowledge of the difference between right and
wrong. There may be as we have seen “many
religions, there is but one morality.” Thou
shalt and thou shalt not, are enduring as the
granite of Sinai, eternal as the graving of God.
The first of such relations is that she be
herself moral; that she purge herself reso¬
lutely from the evils that are so manifest in
her present system ; and having done so that
she acknowledge frankly her true position as
a member of the great family of biological
sciences, neither more nor less sacred than
physiology or morphology; and fixing defi¬
nitely the limits of her inquiry as comprehend¬
ing all actions of life manifested under condi¬
tions other than the normally organic, cease to
trespass on the territory of the sister sciences.
That while maintaining constantly its possi¬
bility, she cease to lay claim to having opened
up a clear system of communication with the
departed, and acknowledge the present gene¬
rally unsatisfactory character of such commu¬
nication.
14. So far as one can look forward to the
future the importance of Psychonomy as a science
will daily increase, and be more fully recog¬
nised. She and she alone can throw light upon
the most debated questions of our day, namely,
“ What is the point at which mind acts upon
matter ? ” What is the connecting link between
the two ? And this at present is her chief mis¬
sion. I hear much said about her destinies as
the overthrower of materialism and the re¬
storer of faith; and the story of Thomas is
always quoted in support of the assertion. But
the faith of Thomas had never been destroyed ;
he doubted only of the reality of what
he saw, never for a moment of his alle¬
giance to his master. “ Belief in the super¬
material is not belief in God,” and on that
account I think Psychonomy will not do much
against materialism; materialists tell you so
themselves frequently: against the sorrowful
| condition of mind which is peculiarly the heri-
292
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 18, 1880*
tage of onr own century, where dabblings in
u science ” have resulted in the collapse of all
light and peace, but the spirit still cries out for
its Father, she may do nearly eyerything.
15. In concluding, let me not leave you under
the mistaken impression that I do not value
the proofs furnished by Psychonomy of the
possibility of communication with those who
have gone before, that I am not grateful for
the revelation to my own mind of an order of
things infinitely marvellous and beautiful.
It is because I value them so deeply, because
I owe more than my feeble effort can ever pay,
that I desire to plead with you, members of
what will, I hope, long continue a national
association, for the enlargement of her borders,
and the removal of hindrances to her usefulness.
Only this I know, that if at length a Jacob’s
ladder is to be fastened by her hands between
heaven and earth, adown which pure angels
may come and walk beside us, and speak with
us, and smile; its grounding must be also in.'
the house of Ood, where His name is held in
honour and His laws are obeyed.
If by her hands signs and wonders are to be
again wrought that shall approve themselves to
men’s consciences as the fruit of divine inspira¬
tion, they will be distinguishable from the signs
and wonders wrought at the instance of oppo¬
sing and self-exalting adversaries, by their
ministry to wholeness and following upon faith.
Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for so
kindly listening to opinions from which many
of you must have dissented. Believe me, no
word has been Spoken in bitterness, and no
thought uttered save with the earnest convic¬
tion of its truth. And so I leave you, desiring
for you as for myself, first the u Kingdom of
God and his rightness; ” then peace—and pro¬
gress in all the sciences.
Before the reading of this Essay it was sent
in MS. to some friends in whose judgment I
had confidence^ together with a request that
they would alter at their will any expression
it might contain, calculated to give needless
offence, and accordingly several (as it seemed
to them) “ unnecessarily strong statements ”
were modified or cut out.
I felt this to be a perfectly j ust and allowable
concession to the feelings of a limited audience
holding certain specialist convictions, so long
as no sacrifice of principle was involved; but
having now consented to the printing of my
words, and by so doing made an appeal to a far
wider circle, I re-insert them precisely in their
original form, without heed to such courtesy.
|J| Moreover, I am determined to show that
! these same statements are the outcome neither
| of haste, of passion nor of prejudice. I was
| never more quiet, more calm or less u theo-
| logical ” in my life.
What I have asserted with regard to average
I u physical ” seances those for whose opinion I
I care one straw will be ready to corroborate, and
| I am content that others should howl at me
| for so long as it pleases them to do it.
J Argyllshire, June, 1880,
ij 1 i. , :   
j SPIRIT INFLUENCE UPON NORMAL
It INDIVIDUALS.
>| BY A. J. PENNY.
)i In The Spiritualist of May 7th you opened
!| the question as to how far our thoughts are
>j influenced by unseen associates, and though
) I you referred to the teaching of Swedenborg, it
yl seemed to me that you hardly accept it on this
§: point; for he asserts repeatedly that every
l|: spirit in a human body, or out of one, is affi-
|| liated to different societies of spirits, and is
sj; therefore moved by an esprit de corps none the
(| less influential because it is unconscious. For
Y\ instance, in the 294th paragraph of his Heaven
|f and Hell he SayS: u Every spirit belongs to
some particular society, and subsists by influx
jj from it, so aS to act in unity with it, and.
)| therefore since man is conjoined with spirits
)! he is conjoined also with Heaven and Hell,
\\ and indeed with that particular society there
\\ in which he is as to his affection or love.” He
),| states also that we cannot escape direct spi-
ritual influence of some sort or other at any
U time. He says : u Although he is ignorant of
j! it, every man, as to Ms spirit, is iff society
>| with spirits while he lives in the body. By
| them as mediums a good man is in some angelic
<j society, and an evil man in some infernal
U society ; and each after death enters that very
ij society with which he had been tacitly 6on-
>! sociated during life.” (Heaven and Hell, Bar.
jyj 438.) Thomas Lake Harris, his greatest
(| disciple, has enlarged upon these occult facts
|| with almost terrific force; see his eloquent
| sermon on Modern Spiritualism—more espe-
I cially the appendix to it—and also his sermon
|j on Man's Relation to Nature, Part 1st, in which
>| this passage occurs indicating the secret cause
>| of human mediumship being made use of by
1 spirits: Men “ are themselves connected by
h the medium of their vices in which they in-
>| dulge with those who, having previously passed
)| on earth through the same career, endeavour
| to reproduce and perpetuate their vices through
(| individuals with whom they can enter into
||- these close and immediate relations.”
June 18, 1880,
293
THE SPIBITUALIST.
I was pleased to find by Mr. C. Reimer’s |
interesting paper, in your impression of May ||
28tb, tbat I am not alone in believing the K
action of spirits of all grades on mind and M
matter is by no means confined to dances ; my |)
strongest objection to these being, not that |S
they make us cognisant of spirits’ presence, but j<
that they reveal ours to them.
In his account of a somnambulistic patient, |)!
(Christiana Kapplinger, of Weinsberg, in |)|
1822) Justinian Kerner moots the same idea jsj
as Mr. Reimers, with regard to the real culprit
in many a criminal transaction being a |M
malevolent spirit influencing the ultimate m
agent. On this subject F. Baader’s opinion Kj
may be worth recalling: u Every somnam- m.
bulist,” he says, <c has two mesmerisers, one |;!
from without, of this earth; and one within, no |>|
longer of this earth. The agency of an unseen jsj
mesmeriser is undeniable with many Somtiam- Kj
bulists, and as even our Saviour in his j?j
temptation, could not guard himself from such j)j
influence, (for the tempter showed him in Is!
one glance all the kingdoms of the world), jq
still less can we defend ourselves from it, both j)j
in a good and a bad sense; and I believe that j>[
even in our waking hours we have this kind jsj
of clairvoyance produced in us oftener than we kj
think, and oftener than it would be good for j>|
us to know perhaps. Our earthly' or so-called j;j
waking consciousness is never wholly clear; jsj
still less devoid of that obscure sense Of another Rj
world which only arises undisturbed in sleep kj
and dreaming ; and we are in continual rapport j>j
with the dwellers in this other world, though jsj
to our dull ears deafened by the noise of the jsj
outer world, their voices only reach us like ®
the Sound of the far off-ocean.’’
I fear that the laws of spirit life would not jsj
allow much extenuation of guilt to the human jq
being who commits a crime under the control kj
of an invisible mesmerist. His power to sub- |>j;
jugate both reason and conscience could not jsj
have been gained without, (1) a congruity of j||
disposition; for u like seeks like in every realm of j|j;
beingf (T. L. Harris); and (2) yielding little by jft
little to evil promptings, “for all influx from jsj
the spiritual world assumes a quality according IqK
to reception, or according to the forms into jq
which it flows.” (Swedenborg''s Heaven and
Hell, Par. 569/
In this life, at least, disembodied spirits Kj
cannot take more power over us than we give ; jcj
and among all the revelations for which Jacob j!j
Bcehme was a medium, I believe none are jij
more important than this, that evil spirits can jij
only touch us, can only see us spiritually when jq
we are in some degree in a like minded state
of being. See on this head his Aurora, Chap.
2V,pars. 47, 48, 50, and his very curious ex¬
pression in six points. Point 6. par. 48, when
speaking of covetousness, he says, “it is the
eye of Hell, the devil seeth man therewith into
soul and body.” I suppose no law of chemical
action more invariably true than this, though
to prove it is not yet possible to reason.
Cullompton, Devonshire.
MR. ROBERT COOPER.
Mr. Robert Cooper, formerly of East¬
bourne, will be held in kindly remembrance
by many Spiritualists. He was a courageous
and liberal supporter of Spiritualism in days
when that form of truth met with scant
favour. He opened the first spiritual in¬
stitution in London, and started the Spiritual
Times, the first spiritual newspaper. He
went about the country with the Davenports;
maintaining their veracity in the* presence of
violent opposition, and delivering lectures on
Spiritualism entirely at his own cost. Sub¬
sequently it Was his lot to suffer seriously in
means and estate, and in hope of better cir¬
cumstances he removed to the United States.
But he was too advanced in life to prosper
in a new country, and latterly he has been
living, in Boston on the proceeds of a small
property in England. This in the course of
events has been taken from him, and he is
now reduced to a condition of severe privation.
Some of Mr. Cooper’s friends have therefore
resolved to come to his assistance, and the
following subscriptions have been promised;—
Mr. Tebb, £20; Mr. A. C. Swinton, £2; Mr.
Pearson, £2.
Mr. 0. Pearson, 15, Harper Street, Blooms¬
bury, W.C., Hon. Treasurer, will receive sub¬
scriptions.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should be feept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymousJ] •• .
THE INDUCED RIGIDITY OF MESMERIC SENSITIVES.
Sir,—When I spoke of the injurious effects of stand¬
ing upon sensitives stretched between two chairs, I did
not adveTt to “stock” sensitives. Of course much
may be acquired by practice; for example, I have seen
ail acrobat in a similar position with a large block of
granite lying upon his chest. Can a sensitive in his abnor¬
mal condition sustain more than many men in their
normal state can do ? If not, what is the value of the
experiment ? The sensitives I tried Were experimented
upon for the first time; besides, there is no analogy be¬
tween Mr. Redman’s experiments and mine; I have
danced upon the sensitive and two or three persons
June 18, 1880.
294
THE SPIRITUALIST.
have sat upon him till he has collapsed. To an en¬
quirer it is simply a feat of endurance. I have every
reason to believe one or more of my sensitives behind
two curtains could make themselves rigid and place
themselves on the backs of two chairs without any help
from a mesmerist whatever. 0. R. Williams.
6, Field View, London Fields.
BELIEF IN A FUTURE STATE. ;>
Sir,—In answer to the enquiry of “ W.” in your js
last issue, I think that Alger’s “ Critical History of the j)
Doctrine of a Future Life,” containing a bibliography j(
of the subject, relating to 6977 books, might suit his i>
purpose. I obtained the copy I had from the Library <*
of St. Mark’s Unitarian Church in this city. <
26, Westcroft Causeway, Edinburgh. J. T. Rhodes.
CHARACTERISTICS OF SEANCES.
Sir,—Permit me to make a few remarks on the sur- i
-prising statement of Mr. Campbell that at “ any ” stance K
blasphemies and low morals will be found to be uttered i)
by spirits. Taking for granted that “ public ” stances K
sometimes represent the corrupted state of human j)
nature in and out of the body, I, for my part, have k
never been struck at Mr. Williams’s seances, for instance, |S
with impressions supporting such censure. Indeed, I j)
feel perplexed to know how such a conclusion could be K
forced by experience. In the present general phase of j;
critical observation and sifting of contradictory facts,
we should be careful of blunders and misrepresentations, j s
  C. Reimers. !
REMARKABLE POWERS OF A DOG.
Sir,—On reading of the extra sense of the dog and j>
crab, in your paper last week, it occurred to me to |)
relate to you a circumstance respecting a dog bred in K
my own family at James Street, Kennington Common, j)
About 1852 or 1853, my brother gave this little puppy, c
three months old, to the captain of a vessel trading | >
from London to Havana. The pup was taken in a j?
cab to the docks and sailed for Havana. Ten months K
afterwards the ship returned and anchored off Graves- j)
end ; the captain and a part of the crew went ashore, k
also the dog, but in returning to the boat the dog could i s
not be found. Three days later, while the captain was j)
at my brother’s house, at Kennington, about one k
o’clock, midday, my brother’s wife called their attention js
to the little dog opposite the door, sitting up on his i>
hind legs, begging, which the sailors had taught him is
to do on board ship. The captain immediately recog- |)
nised the dog, and so did my brother and his family, i)
The mother of the dog also recognised her offspring, I s
and made him very welcome; but the dog evaded the i?
company of the captain and would not be friendly, ic
My brother gave the same dog away to three different j S
people, but he always came back to his home. I was j)
then living in a little cottage in the Camberwell New js
Road, about a quarter of a mile from my brother’s is
house. The dog remained with me cheerfully, and j)
followed the omnibus every morning from Kennington js
to Han way Street, Tottenham Court Road, but when- >
ever he was insulted or annoyed at Hanway Street, j?
he would immediately go back to Kennington, and Is
bark at the door to be let in, instead of waiting to j)
return home with me in the evening, as was his usual j<
custom. The dog had travelled on foot evidently, from is
his hungry and tired condition. Whenever my j<
children were ill, he would not accompany me to
Hanway Street. James King. i>
13, Hanway Street, London. is
AN ELECTION.
Last Tuesday evening the election of the new Council
of the National Association of JSpiritualists ^ook place.
The Association numbers about 300 members, of whom
91 voted. The following is a list of the candidates, and
the number of votes given to each. Those with asterisks
before their names are members of the new Council.
* Adshead, W. P.    61
Allport, H. R.  19
* Barrett, F  42
* Bennett, E. T  64
* Bowman, J  36
* Oalder, Alex  80
* Coffin, W. H  60
* Crosland, Newton  36
* Edmands, T. H  36
* Evans, Colonel   34
* Fitz-Gerald, Mrs  66
* Fitz - Gerald, Mrs .Desmond 6 6
* Fitz-Gerald, Desmond ... 72
Fitton, R  13
* Fletcher, J. W  62
Gray, J. W  ... 16
♦Green, G. F.   33
♦Houghton, Miss   40
* Isham, Sir Oh., Bart. ... 53
* Lamont, J  43
Long, Ch  6
♦Maltby, Mrs  60
♦Maclean, Major-General 62
* Meugens, J. G  62
* Miall, Rev. W  68
* Morse, J. J  37
* Moses, Rev. W. Stainton 82
Nosworthy, Mrs  30
* Pearson, Cornelius  39
* Pearce, R  ... 40
Pickersgill, W. C  22
* Podmore, Frank   48
Potts, G. H  21
Rees, Mrs. J. E. ... ... 10
* Reimers, Christian ... 44
* Rogers, E. Dawson ... 72
* Rondi, Signor  39
* Steiger, Madame de ... 46
♦Speer, S. T., M.D  66
* St. George, W. Stock ... 24
* Theobald, Morell ... ... 63
Thomas, R. Palmer  24
* Tietkens, E. A  37
Turner, J. P   ... 16
Wiseman, Mrs  19
Walhouse, M. J  17
Wilson, D. H  33
* Withall, Miss H  60
* Withall, H  37
* Wyld, Geo., M.D  74
Before the election three candidates who had been
nominated withdrew their names—Major Carpenter,
Mr. E. H. Green, and Mr. J. F. Oollingwood.
At the close of the election Mr. G. F. Green and Mr.
D. H. Wilson had the same number of votes. As only
36 could be elected, and these two added would have
made 37, the meeting decided between the two by a
show of hands, in which way ten voted for Mr. Green,
and nine for Mr. Wilson. The former was accordingly
elected.
On Wednesday, last week, at a private stance at Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory’s, 21, Green Street, Grosvenor Square, London,
spirit writing was obtained through Mr. Rita’s mediumship, on
a clean book slate belonging to Mrs. Gregory, which had
previously been tied up with string and sealed with a signet
ring by Mr. G. Ottley, of 41, Denbigh Street, Belgravia. Last
Tuesday night, Mrs. Gregory gave one of her elegant receptions,
at which Sir William Fairfax, Bart., and many other guests were
present.
Mas. Louisa Andrews is at Bonn.
Dr. Slade is expected to be back in New York at the
end of this week, after several years of absence.
Last Tuesday night, Mrs. Lean (Florence Marryat)
and Colonel Lean gave a reception at 88, Boundary
Road, St. John’s Wood. Among the guests were Mrs.
and Miss Volckman, Madame Isabel de Steiger, Mr.
and Mrs. Fletcher, Colonel and Miss Grek, Miss
Schonberg, Mrs. Hunt, Mr. and Mrs. Neville, Mrs.
Somers, Mrs. Freeland, Mrs. Nicolls, Miss King, Mr.
and Mrs. Shairp, Mrs. Olive, Signor Rondi, Signor
Valcheri, Mr. Dower, Mr. Tirlson, Mr. Green, Mr.
Swinbourne, Mr. Beilin, Mr. Hamilton, Colonel Her-
vey, Major Mercier, Mr. Cecil Brooks, Mr. Rutland
Barrington, Mr. Dowson and Mr. Harrison.
Mrs. Andrews.—Mr. Christian Reimers. asks us to
announce that the subscription list for Mrs. Andrews
has been increased by 10s. from Mr. Tomlinson and
10s. from Mr. Tommy. For many years in the early
days of the movement, Mr. and Mrs. Andrews were
subjected to much local persecution for the facilities
they gave to professional mediums for holding public
stances in their house, and it is to be hoped that Mr.
Andrews’s widow will not be forgotten now in her time
of trouble. Contributions should be sent to Mr.
Woottoh, 38, Little Earl Street, Soho, London*
June 18, 1880. THE SPIR
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS. |
A remarkable case.
To the Editor of11 The Spiritualist” $
Sir,—Yon have asked me as an invalid of no !j
small degree, to furnish yon with my ex- |
perience as to the power of Animal Magnetism K
in healing disease. I use the term animal (or ?
human) magnetism because I have always l>
associated mesmerism with will-power, a thing K
I so greatly object to, that I never would resort k
to it even for healing. It is probably only the |/
recent conditions of my health that you are j;
concerned to know, but I may as well state K
that since I was seven years old I have never K
been really well, and often seriously ill. Sali- w
vated when a child ; frequently bled, leeched, |)
and blistered between seventeen and twenty- n
one; twice again salivated between that age K
and twenty-three ; and then nearly killed with |?
lunar caustic in pills, pencils, and lotions, |)
besides other equally severe remedies during j<
five years, till I was brought down to death’s !<
door and given over by the Allopaths. In
this extremity I turned to Homoeopathy with IS
surprising benefit, and though always delicate K
and often suffering, was able to lead an active X
life. In 1861-62 I took charge of a very |)
dear young relative, who had become con- I)
sumptive, and went abroad with her. She had is
haemorrhage of the lungs, which was apt to K
come on during sleep. I found no night- !?
watcher kept awake as I did, and watching |>
was absolutely necessary. I therefore myself js
sat up every night for three weeks, only going k
to bed from six to eight in the morning. To \>
this I attribute the break down which occurred a Is
few months afterwards. From that time my K
health gradually but continuously declined. I k
tried Hydropathy with only partial and temper- I)
ary success ; was under many doctors in various js
places, but never obtained any radical good. K
It was not their fault; they did their best; and jc
I can only look back with gratitude to their [>
kindness and their endeavours to relieve me. ' js
The fault was partly in myself, my compli- K
ca* ion of maladies was always baffling them, j?
because when they were doing good to one '6
thing, they were doing harm to another, and |s
had to stop, and partly in the system which k
could not meet such a condition. One of these k
physicians told me (he was a personal friend) j>
there was not one organ in my body from my js
brain downwards that was performing its K
functions properly, not actual organic disease, |
but the whole nervous system disorganised
throughout. Bright, active, and vi7acious s
naturally, I became weak, depressed, inert j K
I T U A L I S T. 295
unable even to think. Sight affected, very
little use of the hands ; if I wanted to sew on
a button I could not pull the needle through
with my fingers, only with my teeth. Numb¬
ness in the left leg, a powerful galvanic battery
causing no sensation, Left pulse scarcely
perceptible at the wrist. Heart exceedingly
feeble and irregular ; unable to lie on the left
side. Haemorrhage. Inability to digest food.
A constant flow of saliva from the mouth ; not
water-brash from the stomach but saliva. For
six years I lost more than a pint and a half
daily, and became pitiably weak and emaciated.
At last I found out that sugar, pepper,
alcohol, and fat, aggravated. the flow, and I
left them off absolutely, and after doing so the
excess of the flow abated, but the condition
never entirely left me. I had constantly re¬
curring sick headaches, with prostrating
nausea, which always lasted three days. The
head became so weak I could not sit in the
room with two people talking, conld hardly
bear the sound of my own voice, and music of
any kind would bring on violent retching.
Having been very musical and a singer, this
was a terrible privation. I could never go to
church, or be anywhere within sound of music
or singing. I could neither read, nor be read
to, and felt no interest in any earthly thing.
The tongue was enormously swollen, the throat
becoming closed, and swallowing difficult; a
bleeding ulcer formed in the nose, the bones
of which became enlarged, quite altering its
shape, and the palate became hollow as if the
ulcer were eating through or wasting it. The
right breast was enlarged and had a lump in
it, and there was a lump connected with it
under the armpit, the shoulder stiffened by it
and the whole arm weak and painful. The
spine became more and more curved so that I
was unable to sit or stand upright, and my
back and knees were so weak that I could not
walk without making a walking stick of my
umbrella. There was also a formation in the
stomach apparently of the same nature as a
tumour of which my mother died. The liver
exceedingly enlarged and congested. A stone
in the kidney, and the remains of the former
serious uterine condition.
Last June I came up to London to visit
some relations, and being desirous to try the
Mattei remedies, I went to St. Saviour’s Cancer
Hospital, in Osnaburgh Street, to consult Mr.
W. Forbes Laurie, M.D., who resides at Dun¬
stable, but comes up every Thursday to attend
as physician at the Hospital. He has made
these remedies his study and probably under-
296
THE SPIR
stands their administration better than any
man in England. I had been trying them
down in the country with some benefit for
three months, and thought I should like to try
them under his eye, so I arranged with him to
take a lodging at Dunstable, and I was there
four months under his care. I gained some
strength but no radical change, and it was
yery evident that he thought my case a hope¬
less one, medically, as regards cure. He was
exceedingly kind and friendly, and used always
to come back from the hospital full of wonder¬
ful tales about a Dr. Mack, who attended at
the hospital, whom he described as a powerful
“ magnetiser,” and he frequently expressed a
wish I should go up and consult him. To this
I always gave an angry refusal. I objected
to what I knew of mesmerism, and would have
nothing do with it. Dr. Laurie endeavoured
to assure me that there was nothing I should
object to in Dr. Mack’s treatment, and that it
would give me the strength I needed. At
last in November, having business in London,
which I had been putting off because of my
inability to undertake the worry and fatigue
of it, I made a bargain with Dr. Laurie to
go up some Thursday, so as to have his escort
back again in the evening. I asked him to
make an appointment for me with Dr. Mack
that I might have a look at him and a talk
with him, and if the interview was satisfactory
I would try the treatment, and if he could set
me up for the day so as to enable me after the
fatigue of the journey up, to go forth and
transact my business I would believe in him.
I had my look, and was satisfied that the man
was thoroughly honest and good; and I
had my talk, and was satisfied that he used
no will power. So I submitted to the treat¬
ment.
He sootlied all my vibrating nerves, poured
a stream of strength from his hands into my
frame, so that I walked about London that
day as I had not done for over fifteen years,
accomplished all my business, returned to
Dunstable by the 8.35 train with Dr. Laurie,
not reaching my lodging till past 10 o’clock ;
slept well that night, was not done up next
morning, and ate my breakfast better than
usual. I was astonished, and so was every
one else. I resolved to repeat the experiment
and went in again on the Saturday by myself
and returned by myself with just the same
Results.. The following week I went in twice
in the same way. The people at my lodging
kept remarking that I was looking stronger
and better, and wondered how it could be so
I T U A L I S T. June 18, 1880.
with the fatiguing journeys, and the cold of
the frost and snow.
My mind was made up. This treatment
must be pursued, and without the drawbacks
of the journeys. I made arrangements to be
received at one of the private houses belonging
to the hospital where Dr. Mack also, at the
time, had his apartments, and was there four
months under his treatment daily, except on
Sundays. At the end of March, Dr. Mack
found it necessary to take a little rest and
change, so he went abroad for a few weeks,,
and I went to Malvern till his return. My
friends were amazed at the change in me.
Their very servants remarked it. It needed
no assurances of mine that I was renovated,
they had the proof of it before their eyes.
My kind doctor there, was as much pleased. as
any one, and was glad when the opportunity
occurred to send patients to Dr. Mack. My
invalid friends asked me to request him to
come down to Malvern before settling again
in London. Accordingly, he took a run down
from the Thursday to the Monday, and daily
treated from seven to ten patients to their
satisfaction and with some marked results.
I must now tell you some of the changes
that have taken place in me. I have lost the
weakness, the depression, the inertness. I
can walk briskly and without assistance, run
up stairs without palpitation or losing my
breath, can occupy myself in various ways,
use my hands more freely. The numbness in
the leg quite gone. The left pulse as strong
as the right one; I can lie on the left side,
I have not had an attack of the heart since
January. The salivation comparatively slight,
the sick headaches infrequent and much less
severe. I can bear conversation without
distress, and although I cannot yet bear music
in a room, I can bear it in the street without
suffering. During the last few weeks I have
even occasionally opened the piano and played
and sung to myself (a thing I have not done
for fourteen years), the congestion in the
throat being more a hindrance to my perfor¬
mances than the condition of the head. My
tongue is half the size it was. The ulcer in
the nose has long ceased to bleed, the swell¬
ing of the bones is disappearing and the disease
quite arrested. The enlargement in the breast
has quite gone down, the lump under the arm
quite disappearing. To be candid the can¬
cerous condition is gone. My spine is nearly
quite straight again. I have gained some
inches in height, my dresses becoming so short
I had to give them away. The stone in the
297
June 18, 1880. THE 8 P I ]t
kidney disappeared long ago, and without b
suffering. All this from animal magnetism |s
only, no medicine or other means. K
The most striking result of the treatment
has been in the sight. Twenty-three years
ago I discoyered that I had lost the sight of
my right eye in so far that though I could |<
discern light from darkness and perceive objects !>
with the comers of the eye, I could see nothing |S
through the centre of it. I went to Mr. White |<
Cooper who told me it was “ Congestion on H
the retina extending along the optic track,” j>
that unless I gave up all use of the eyes for |)
some months and kept them shaded from all K
strong light, I should entirely lose the sight of !?
that eye, and that the other would then follow. !>
I obeyed his instructions, and though the one Is
eye has been useless the other has been well, k
A private friend in the medical profession, who b
at one time made the eyes his speciality, told l>
me nothing more could be done to restore the Is
sight. Three years ago (or four) the well eye c
began to fail; I could not see clearly through I?
the centre of it, and feared cataract might be $
forming. So I went to Mr. Liebricht who told js
me it was only weak from having double work j|
to do, and the other had a black spot on it |)
which was incurable. I can now see with that IS
eye all objects distinctly. I can even see the K
details, of pictures on the walls, and discern k
colours. The only defect that remains to be |>
removed is a grayish haze before the eye and |S
uneven edges to objects, just like looking K
through grimy and uneven glass. Dr. Mack k
has never directed the treatment specially to j)
the eyes. They have partaken of the general jS
renovation that has been going on.
How has all this been brought about ? Ah ! k
Some wiser head than mine must tell you that. |>
There is a celebrated sermon by the late Rev. jv
Dr. Chalmers entitled 11 The Expulsive Power c
of the New Affection.” As he shows there of |?
the moral and spiritual, so is it here with the >:
physical. You cannot pluck faults out of a js
child as you would a tooth. Implant the good K
and so supplant the evil. Impart health and j?
you drive out disease. This is what Dr. Mack |>
does. His two hands are the two poles of a Is
u battery.” With the one he pours in a stream K
of vitality from his own healthy vigorous body, W
and with the other draws out disease from the |>
patient’s, body. How do I know he draws it |s
out ? First,, because I feel that I am relieved, R
rid of something bad; next, because the water R
in which he continually laves his hands while j>
treating becomes poisonous; a dog drinking of Is
it is ill for weeks, a servant getting any of it Ri
ITU APIS T.
in a scratched or cut finger has a poisoned arm;
and there is a ring of black sticky stuff depo¬
sited on the basin round the edge of the water
which nothing but scalding water and soda will
remove.
Dr. Mack’s mode is this. On the table by
his side is a basin of cold water into which he
dips his hands. Water being a conductor of
animal magnetism facilitates the transmission
of the current from his body. The patient is
seated opposite to him, near enough to him to
take both hands in his. Some patients feel a
slightly pricking sensation in the hand and
arms, then a glow of warmth passing up and
permeating the body; others feel nothing at
all,, but the benefits are just the same as in
other cases where sensations are felt. At
intervals he laves his hands freely in the water,
thus throwing off from himself what he draws
out of the patient. While the patient is pas¬
sively receiving the soothing, warming, healing
influences of the current, Dr. Mack is per¬
ceiving in his body the diseased conditions of
the patient. Every part that has a trouble in
it produces like pains in himself; and it is
sometimes extremely distressing to see him
suffering in this way. I never told him a
single ache or pain, or malady, and yet I have
seen him writhing on his chair with my pains,
and laying his hand on the part affected. The
marvellous thing is that when he in this way
takes on my pain I lose it. I have seen him
choking with flatulence passing copiously off
the stomach while I have been sitting quietly
opposite him, and my distension going down,
till the stomach was hollow and flaccid.
After holding the patient’s hands in his for a
few minutes he then, according to the guiding
sensations in his own body, applies his hands
to various parts of the patient’s body. A
wondrous sensation of warmth penetrates
wherever he does this and yet if you touch the
backs of his hands they are quite cool and
moist with the cold water. It is the penetrat¬
ing current which is warm, not his hands. He
then, either sitting or standing, makes passes
over the parts, when exceeding .refreshing
coolness seems drafted in, penetrating just as
warmth did, but it never chills. Sometimes
he is silent and absorbed, as necessarily he
would be when studying the sensations in his
own body. At other times he is lively, and
chattering, and encouraging mirthfulness in
the patient. He says he has no will-power,
and certainly none is felt, no rapport or in¬
fluence of any kind either during the treatment
| or after it. He says he cannot put to sleep,
298 T H E S P I li I T U A L I S T. Juke 18, 1880
and certainly no sleepiness is felt during the Rj
treatment.
The effects perceived vary with the conditions. m
An exciting or suffering condition will be m
soothed, a weary condition invigorated; chilli- a
ness warmed, feverishness cooled. Do you say jjj
this may be the power of faith or imagination ? |>|
What do you say then when dumb animals and b!
young children are relieved and healed in the Rj
same way? Dr. Mack has at this moment two j?j
or three cases of young infants whom he has m
never even seen, whose parents wrote to him Kj
about them when all other means had failed, ja
asking him if he could do anything to save their j>|
treasures. He has sent “ magnetised ” paper iS|
and flannel to be applied over the affected |s;
parts, and letters come expressing the deepest k!
thankfulness at the results, and asking for |!j
more fabrics; and so the cures goon. These |>j
fabrics he is daily sending to every part of the Kj
world, to people he has never seen, and he is R
perpetually receiving grateful letters as to the j>|
cures effected. I have been wearing the flannel is
myself round the body, across the chest and k
round the throat day and night since November, b j
It feels quite different to other flannel, a soft m
penetrating warmth, just like that from his Kj
hands, not a surface heat, irritating as other Kj
flannel would. ?
I cannot close this letter without saying I j;j
am deeply grateful to Dr. Mack for all he has jvj
done for me; and I thank G-od that I was Kj
induced to go to him. I value him highly and j?j
I admire his work. It is a beautiful work, js|
Christlike. I long to bring all suffering per- Kj
sons to this beneficent healing.
E. C. Macdonell. >
12, Upper Baker Street, London, N.W. (j
ME. EGLINTON AT MUNICH.
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—My friend, Mr. Eglinton wishes me >j
to forward to you the enclosed letter. As he K
left it to my discretion, I havedaken the liberty U
to soften a little the expression of his just |>
indignation at the treatment he received, not Is
only from some excited and short-sighted ex- <
plorers at Munich, but from others from >
whom he- might reasonably have expected h
better manners. |
I have known Mr. Eglinton very intimately k
for nearly four years, a large portion of !)
which time he has been an inmate of my >
house. I have attended perhaps fifty stances K
with him, and in all that time, and with such R
opportunities, I have never seen one indication |>
of dishonest or immoral conduct. He has i
been frank, open, honourable, in every way. K
I have tested the manifestations in the most
perfect manner, and am entirely satisfied of
their genuine character.
As to the black on his hand, it is much
more likely to have come from one of those
who held him, than in any other way ; but
in whatever way it came those who held his
hands must be fairly held responsible for
whatever happened to them. In any case, I
have implicit faith in the honesty of Mr.
Eglinton. T. L. Nichols.
32, Fopstone Road, Earl’s Court, London, June 13th, 1880.
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—Having vainly waited some time for
the publication of the particulars of the so-
called “ exposure ” in Munich, hinted at in
the absurd paragraph you copied from the
Globe, I think it best to give you a true
account, so far as known to me, of what
occurred, and the real basis of the foolish
and, I regret to say, slanderous gossip which
has come to me upon the subject. Here are
the facts.
Last year I passed through Munich, and
although pressed for time, consented to stay
long enough to give two stances, which were
so successful that I was induced to promise
to visit the town again during my tour this
year. Negotiations for my visit were carried
on through Herr G-abriel Max, and not
through Herr Sellmaier, as has been stated.
I arrived in Munich April 27th, from Vienna,
where I had had many stances with excellent
results, having engaged myself to give twelve
stances for <£60, out of which I was to pay my
travelling, hotel, and other expenses. Six
stances had been given, with one failure, by
the evening of the 1st of May, as I had
consented to give two seances daily for
three days, at the request of some persons
who wished to leave the city on the above
date. At the sixth or seventh stance (all of
which took place at the house of Herr
Sellmaier, in a room totally devoid of
furniture, except a table and chairs), I
was asked if I would allow an artificial cal¬
cium rose, which shines in the dark, to be
placed in the button-hole of my coat, to
which I consented; but after wearing it once
the light so troubled my eyes that I suggested,
on the next occasion, that the rose should be
placed on my shoulder, and, as I sometimes
floated in the air, I also proposed that two of
these calcium lights should be fastened to my
shoes, so that my position might be seen when
floating in the air. Excellent manifestations
continued up to the tenth sitting; the per-
299
June 18, 1880. THE SPIR
sons attending them showing the greatest
satisfaction with the results. During the
tenth sitting, I had these lights attached
to me as usual, and the manifestations were
fairly good. After the stance, when the
sitters were restoring the room to order, I saw
something laying on the floor, and, on picking
it up, and showing it to the circle, we dis¬
covered it to he a mechanical frog, which, when
wound up, leaped about with great noise.
Everyone present disclaimed ownership, and
I returned to my hotel. When there, I dis¬
covered that my right hand had a stain of
something black upon it, and I wondered how
it came there. I had made some appoint¬
ments for the following day with some of the
sitters, hut none of them came for me. At
8 p.m., Herr Sellmaier came in a carriage as
usual to take me to the stance, and on the
road was as friendly as on the previous occa¬
sions. When I arrived at his house, instead
of the circle I had expected to meet, I found
assembled some fourteen or fifteen persons,
many of whom had never been to any of the
stances. One man, speaking bad English,
acted as interpreter. I was commanded to
stand on one side of the room, which I de¬
clined to do. Whereupon, with much ex¬
citement, the interpreter, Professor Heipne-
meyer, denounced me as an impostor, called
my attention to 500 marks (£25) lying upon
the table, and demanded that I should take
that sum and leave the city, or, failing to do
so, I should be handed over to the police. I
asked for their proof of my dishonour, calling
to their minds our excellent stances, when I
was informed that on the previous evening
they had blackened the key of the musical
box and afterwards found a black stain upon
my hand. I said it failed to prove my guilt,
and that, instead of driving me from their
city, they would have acted more reasonably
if they had requested further stances to prove
or disprove their accusations. They would
listen to no explanation, and demanded that I
should leave the city, or take the alternative
of being imprisoned. I declined to take their
basely-offered money, and left the house. On
going to my hotel I reflected, and felt it
would be folly to stay where there was so
little chance of justice being shown to me.
I left at 6.30 next morning for Paris.
During my stay in Paris I was introduced
to Mons. de Rappard, one of the editors of
“ Licht, mehr Licht,v who most vehemently
denounced me and my explanation that the
mechanical frog was not found upon me nor
ITUALIST.
>1 taken by me into the stance-noom. His prin-
jl cipal charge against me was not the black
| upon my hand, but this mechanical frog, which
M Sellmaier had telegraphed had been found on
<| my person. Now, according to the authority
?| of Professor Zollner, Sellmaier has confessed
to him, without any public apology for his
s| original mis-statement, that this wonderful
(| jumping frog had been brought to the circle by
>| one of the sitters; so the rumour of “ mechan-
j! ism ’’ being found upon me still continues to
<| be circulated without contradiction.
I do not blame the Munich people for their
belief in my presumed imposture, the black
ij upon my hand being as little understood to
s! them as was Mr. Crookes’s experiment with
o Miss Cook, when he put a black mark upon
>| the back of her hand, and afterwards found it
S upon her shoulder; but I do blame them for
(| not drawing up on the spot a correct report
)| of what transpired, which would have pre-
)| vented so much untruth, and capital being
sj made out of it by the public journals. My
< account will explain the “phosphorescent
/j lights upon his coat to see his motions,” and
)| also the “ mechanical appliances,” and the
l\ black upon my hands. It should be men-
<! tioned that at all stances I was always held
?| hands and feet by two persons. This fact alone
>| should be enough to clear me of any charge
s| of imposture.
I do not need to make any public reply to
;| private slanders. My friends will know what
S| to believe as to my personal conduct.
IW. Eglinton.
P.S.—Since writing the above, Herr Levy,
| the director of the Royal Opera, Munich, has
! confessed that he took the mechanical frog
| to the circle, and though he was present when
| I was stigmatised as an impostor, and also
I knew of the telegrams which were being sent
| all over Germany that mechanical apparatus
j had been found upon my person, neither he
| nor the persons who have made themselves
I conspicuous by their bitter attacks upon me,
| have had the common honesty or decency to
I contradict such a base falsehood. I really
| begin to doubt now, whether the black was
| not placed upon my hand in a similar manner.
| The Newcastle Spiritualists have resolved to bring
I out immediately a penny weekly spiritual newspaper
! in that town, under the title of The JELerald of Progress.
  -♦ 
JUtsfom ta Cormptttats.
R.—Your expressions are too censorious for publication; you
j might express the same ideas in gentler language, especially to-
| wards one who has rendered such braye services to the movement
! at Cambridge.
300
Jtno: 18, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Bg the £«$• Wit.'Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
Xhe second and slightly revised and abridged edition; for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
SpirituaUsm.
poMsshed, price 5s., or As. 6d. post fees.
OONTH^TS. g]
CHAPTER IPirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process !(
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon- j(
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness j (
•'-'Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in jp
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture— p
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleepier—Various Degrees of Suscepti- K
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards Ic
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep. j}
CH APTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions— I)
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public1 Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage— n
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical j \
Intuition—'Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of j (
a Peculiar Force or Influence. i<
CHAPTER IV s—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes — 1 /
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and j)
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retro vision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Ac., Predicted—Pre- (
diction'of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents (
and of Events Affecting others—^Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of (
It—Spontaneous Retro vision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of r
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and j ;
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious j \
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method K
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator— i(
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of j(
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro- I)
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not n
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s K
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of i ?
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions— i)
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do i)
not Act—^Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism S S
—Fascination Among Animals—Distinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele- j S
graph Founded on It. ■ ' ' K
CHAPTER IX {—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame— • i
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of j P
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio j ?
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water f p
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological," 'Therapeutical, &c.— jb
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c„ explained by Mes- ,j b
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—^Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking j (
Clairvoyance—Prediction^ of Various Kinds. j C |
CHAPTER X {—An Explanation at the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested / i
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,' ana is Probably the |) |
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Jts Characters—Difficulties qf the ])
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought- i b
Reading—Ladd Vision—Odylie Emanatiohs—Odylic Traces followed Up by . K
Ludd Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &b., j (
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universd :8j mpathy —Ludd Perception of the js
CHAPTER XI {—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Sdenoe—Due Limits j b
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—^Conditions of Success in Experiments— i
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student— ibj
Opposition to.be Expected. Kj
CHAPTER XII {—Phenomena Observed in .the Conscious or Wairing State-— j f j
Effects of Suggestion on Persons ih an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis's Experi- | /1
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments— jp]
Cases—Consdous or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced oy Passes, or by 'Oonfceh- jb j
tration—Major Buddey’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces tyaking i b |
Lucidity,’when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian j b i
Magic. r
CHAPTER XIH {—Production of the. Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of If!
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric 81eep— 5?!
Sleep Produced without the knowledge ;of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep j p!
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Syihpafhetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep— IS j
Cases—^Perception of Time—Cases { Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of j b i
Retrovision. J if I
CHAPTER XTV {—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance— i (j
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—^Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases— i ?!
t airvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV {—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe- ,! b j
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions. ] b j
CHAPTER XVI {—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks It 1
and Summary. > hs jfi
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-etreet, London.
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, untuit now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena iu all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
he unable to hear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modem Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the fitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to lie seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
(top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
S5. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
hut an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-jilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean ‘1 Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps he given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message P ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
(trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class at
messages, as judged, by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should beheve no more about them
or the contents of the message? than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week: angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
June 18, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER;:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. 'White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes 5 but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
prioisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
L\ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
in Spiritualism, by Christian Reimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM,
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral 'Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
Record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
,and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
‘‘ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
Writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
Researches in the pheno¬
mena OP SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l&d; or six copies post free for 6d.
EAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIRITUALISTS. 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
ARTS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only acoommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
‘place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.O
Price 3s, Gd. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”.
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Hichmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V, Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by .Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of. Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XTV.—To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
X VII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for (he Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXHI.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
,C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVT.—Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXTV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W.H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of NatuKfi -Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. >. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdojigall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown £Svo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society fpi
the Promotion of Science, Arts'and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museumstreet, London, W.C.'
Price 5s. fid.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS'from: the INNER LIFE.’’
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—H. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Keplef’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—-XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXHI.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Sooiete Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve d
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable t
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. fid. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V:—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VHI:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modern Spiritualism.
Will be sent by .the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.C’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, ErC.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The >Sfpiri<Mo(istNew8paper Branch
.Office, price.
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefor^, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemipation of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of .those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors of disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to “drop about” or distribute
five hundred of theleaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit .irdes at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge qf truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, coo-'
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 18, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING-,
USB
END'S FHUITSALT
•Erery Trayelling Trunk and Household in the 'World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO'S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-
riving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
1 for any Season,
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,’Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, andhave verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
CTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
NATURAL APERIENT.—
A
END’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT I!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
loo rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT.- Ton cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de 6“> Ifaix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. WH is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “Aftersuf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try END’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ QUCOESS IN LIFE.”—Anewin-
K3 vention is brought before the public and com-
inands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked “ENO’S EMUIT SALT.” Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2*. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at END’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
j Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The. Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirtj
other standard journals,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song oi
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der¬
vishes a,t Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay oi
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the'Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. MaterialisticReligion—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe!”—19. The Human. Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29 The July Bug.—30, The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says;—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise Of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. ... The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” audit says that the rhymes
arc pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
■ “ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.” i
From The Graphic. '4
“ Those who oan appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published find
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and (he short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Maee-bearers; hut one
of the most laughable bits is “the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
THE BIRKBEOK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
OW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER' MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Officfi of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
OW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate; possession, either , for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office pf the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROET, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
H(
H(
ESTABLISHED 1851.
"DIRKBECK BANK.—Current
J-f Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROET, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
T UNACY LAW REFORM
JU ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe and S. T. Blackwell, Esq., Barrister.an-
Law, Hon. Seed.
HTHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
A OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6§d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.C.
The Spiritualist Newspaper
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Branch Office, 33,
T
Price 6d.; post free 7}d.; cloth.
Pbize Essays.
HE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the Fibst' and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.O.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
*/ Boston, U.S.
a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
ihyeetigated the subject Without'pre-eonceived ideas,
and the result .of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, infavour not pnly of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that Ms descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he Ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test wMch Ms
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (wMch is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opmion.
CONTENTS.
290
292
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S. A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. - Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order,.) Sample copies free.
Psychonomy in its Relation to Religion and EtMcs.
By J. A. Campbell, B.A.   
Spirit Influence upon Normal Individuals. By
A. J. Penny    
Testimonial to Mr. Robert Cooper       293
Correspondence:—The Induced Rigidity of Mes¬
meric Sensitives 293
Belief in a Future State    294
Remarkable Powers of a Dog... 294
An Election     294
Paragraph:—Mrs. Andrews     294
Healing by Laying on of Hands. By E. O.
Macdonell       295
Mr. Eglinton at Munich. By T. L. Nichols   298
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.O., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
