eegisteueu as a Newspaper.
^>r1) J0trV•??l< Otf f^YCSo^o^idS^ ^di^Kc!^.
 dMfafit Stfepga tjmutfeit fait| gpiritroliam in feat jtMa.  
No. 383. (VOL. XV.—No. 26.) LONDON: FHIDAY, DECEMBER 26j 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
JAIES IALTBY,
A11 MY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS.
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.,
Will be opened next Monday, when catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of
postage of books. Full particulars as to terms will be found in the eatalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by II. I5. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, G IR G A U M BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “The Proprietors of ‘ The Theosophist,’” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS EON BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together,. ,
the results of his own experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should be treated; and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bai* !
to the progress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’'and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure I of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too • ^
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache, ;
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is*‘ Call it what you like, but persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—TAe Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, Loudon, W.C.
11
THE STIRIT ETALIST.
Dec. 26, 1879.
Just arrived from America.* A NEW BOOK Inj
EUGENE CEO WELL, M.D.,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
Its Inhabitants, Nature, and Philosophy.
Price 6s. 6d., post free. Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. fid. Trtjbner and Oo., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT - IDENTITY.
By “ M.A, (Qxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges, Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and setting
forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The KEY. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . , His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Just Published.
MR, C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night at 7 o'clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
16-1, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Church (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS, Quebec Hall, 25, Great
Quebec-street, Marylebone, London.
On Wednesday, December 31st, being the close
of the old year, a Meeting will commence at 9.30
p.m., and be continued until 12.30 at the above
Hall, when songs, duets, trios, recitations, and ad¬
dresses will be given, and among them Tennyson’s
poem,‘'Ring out the Old, Ring in the New,” by a
young lady. Mr. Morse will be present.
Admission free. A collection during the evening.
Alter 1 a.m. the meeting will be continued for
innocent recreation for all who may wish to stay.
Coffee, tea, and light refreshments will he provided
at low rates.
On Tuesday, January 6th, at-8.30 p.m., Mrs. Olive
has kindly offered to give aAf/cmce in the Hall for the
benefit of the Association. Admission 2s. 6d. To
commence at 8.30 promptly.
J. M. DALE, Hon. Sec.
TvTOTICE of REMOVAL TO 31,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honors, Paris.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The cpnnection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesnaerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, eyen when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d. ,
post free. Cloth edition os. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-gtrept) London, W.C.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship" developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from i p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.G.
4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-squara.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
of the Fox Sisters, of New.York City, U.S.
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from' 8 to io, either at house of party or at Mrs
Kune’s rooms, must be made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
v_y DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stope-road, EaiTs-court, S.W.
Hfteoutid xil ihz s txl to Bzimt)# wd £thic$ #f SpittitttaUsm*
No. 383,—VOJLUJVlE FIFTEEN ; NujVIBEFi TWENTY-^IX,
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 26th, 1879.
“TEfE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in ISO8.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
Os. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRIS ON.
British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Eight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Yon Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists,
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne),
Captain John James.
S. O. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin-
hiirgn.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencben, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
BarOn Von Dirckinek-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of Franco at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
O. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.R.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Qxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer bn Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel.E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq'., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on Bale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal,Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonta, Florence; Signor Bbcca,
Librarib, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiajat
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Rue Flbrimont, Liege; Josefstaad,
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application
npHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas-
odon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The’ author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of difterent planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta •
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who Would hot cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
“ THE SPIRIT WORLD.”
DR. EUGENE CROWELL’S NEW BOOK.
The earlier work by Dr. Eugene Crowell, of New
|| York, on Primitive Christianity and Modern
) I Spiritualiswf, is one of the most valuable books con-
(j nected with the movement. The author spent un-
) | limited time in examining for himself the actual facts
(! of modern Spiritualism • he grappled fairly with all
> i the real difficulties they presented, and deduced
(| philosophical conclusions from the materials within
)j his grasp. At the same time, in addition to this
|| logical and scientific method of procedure, ho
>j paralleled the phenomena, with those recorded in
|| the Bible, thus helping to ward off the prejudice
(\ of those whose minds have been bent in particular
yj directions in early youth by the voice of authority,
)| and he thereby helped to predispose in favour of
\ | Spiritualism those who care more for high and holy
) | spiritual right, than earthy and gross material might.
In his new book, The Spirit World, which has
rj just reached our office from America, he attempts to
\ | give information to the public about the world
)]. beyond the grave, its inhabitants, nature, and phi-
(| losophy. The information he redistributes is obtained
/ i through a solitary channel, that of the mediumship
\j of Mr. Charles B. Kenney, an American trance
j medium. Dr. Crowell sets forth that he believes in
U the revelations so given, (1) because he is satisfied
) | with the good character of the medium ; (2) because
n for two years he has beconie satisfied of the good
(j character of two Indian spirits who communicate
) i through that medium; (3) because his departed
(j father, whose identity he has frequently tested, has
yj often communicated through Mr. Kenney, and the
n two Indian spirits have assured him of his father’s
yj identity; (4) because Mr. Robert Dale Owen knew
(j the medium, Mr. Kenney, before his death, and (5)
); he (Mr. Owen) then promised that after he left
(j earth-life he would communicate through said
I j medium ; (6) because after Mr. Owen’s death the said
< j Indian spirits testified that the spirit of Mr. Dale
>j Owen was present; (7) because—to use Dr. Crowell’s
(I own words P—
“ 7th. From the time Mr. Owen first commum-
J-j cated with me through our medium to the present I
j have availed myself of frequent opportunities of
(j testing his identity, and the results have always been
>1 satisfactory; and beside this he has frequently, of his
(j own accord, referred to incidents and circumstances
j j with which he and I alone were familiar, and to
(i conversations between us in earth life, and to agree-
> i ments and differences of opinion, and in one instance
(j even referred to and resumed a conversation in which
) j we had engaged, but which was interrupted, when he
\ j at one time was visiting me previous to passing
'' away.” ^
302
THE SPIR
Let us examine these points, because if there is j)j
any flaw in the evidence that communications m
through the mediumship of Mr. Kenney do not l(j
reveal information in which the world can trust as |>!
to the conditions of existence in the life immortal, |(|
the whole book falls to the ground, so far as the main j)|
intention of its author is concerned.
All of us are satisfied as to the high intelligence, |>j
self-sacrifice, and valuable labours of Dr. Crowell, m
and will unreservedly accept his testimony as to m
the first point (1), the good character and trust- j(j
worthiness of the medium. j)j
As to point two (2), Dr. Crowell does not tell |(|
us whether the two Indian spirits who communi- |)|
cate through Dr. Kenney have proved their identity Kj
by giving details of their earth-lives to such an j>l
extent, that reference to War Office and other |\|
United States Government documents will verify the j)j
particulars they give. If their conditions of earthly j) j
existence were such as not to admit of proof of this jd
or any other documentary kind, it were better that m
such fact had been stated, that all the conditions of jn
the problem might be fully before the reader. If n|
no such approximate evidence of identity exists, 1)1
questions—ungrappled with by Dr. Crowell—remain, j {j
Might not a medium, or mesmeric sensitive, in an j/j
abnormal state believe himself to be controlled by nj
Indian spirits, especially in the presence of a man id
strongly imbued with such conviction, and pour forth j)j
narratives in a state of trance bearing no relation to id
the realms of fact? Or might not spirits be really j)j
present, and beyond being able to stimulate the brain \ (!
of a sleeping sensitive into such a state as to make m
his mouth talkative, be unable to do more than to m
give this dubious evidence of their presence, and be |)|
perhaps disgusted with the words he uttered, suppos- m
ing them to have the means of knowing what those |) j
words were ?
As to point (3), supposing either of the conditions
of error just mentioned to be present, Dr. Crowell’s (j
father might be either present or absent, but in the 1) j
former case able to give only symptoms of presence jd
difficult to identify.
Points four (4) and five (5) being accepted as Yj
sound, the demurrers already put apply to six (6).
Point seven (7), that the spirit of Robert Dale m
Owen has overwhelmingly proved his identity to Dr. jd
Crowell, is exceedingly interesting. It is just the nj
kind of evidence investigating Spiritualists want; and jd
had half the book of Dr. Crowell been filled with n j
the details, instead of the above single paragraph of jd
assertion, leaving the reader to take the whole matter nj
upon authority, a great addition would have been id
made to the book-literature of Spiritualism. Here, n
in England, Serjeant Cox has gone from our midst, jd
and in spirit-life has as yet been unable to give that j)i
evidence of identity at spirit circles, which down here jd
he so assiduously worked to obtain himself. Through nj
three or four mediums he has ostensibly manifested, j(j
but in such a way as to leave uncomfortable loop- j)j
holes for rational conviction in minds not disposed to jd
unnecessary quibbles, that the communicating intelli- i) j
gQnce may have been somebody else. But evidence jd
which so' far is unobtainable in England, a good j)j
witness in America, like Dr. Crowell, has ob- jd
tained in relation to Mr. Robert Dale Owen 1)1
T UAL I ST. Dec. 26, 1879.
to such an extent as to satisfy himself. So much
is this kind of evidence wanted in the present stage
of Spiritualism, that Dr. Crowell is doubtless aware
that there would have been a much greater rush on
both Continents after a little booklet by him on The
Proved Spirit Identity of Robert Dale Owen, than
there is likely to be for his present work, which
should be entitled “ The Spirit World, as seen
through the organism of Mr. Kenney, of New York.”
And what is that world, as seen through this soli¬
tary fragment of human glass ? Terribly materialistic.
More materialistic even than as seen through the
spectacles of Andrew Jackson Davis—“Spiritual”
zones round the earth, at distances as measurable
from us as the rings of Saturn are from the surface
of that planet. Dr. Crowell says:—
“ The first sphere, zone, or heaven—they term all
the spheres heavens—is distant from the earth 550
miles. The second is distant from the first 100
miles; and between each of the others, above the
second certainly up to the eighteenth, the distance is
50 miles. Of the distances between the heavens
above this the records make no statement. This
brings the seventh heaven within one thousand miles
of the earth, and provided the distances between the
heavens above the eighteenth are the same as below
it, the fortieth heaven should be between two and
three thousand miles from the earth. At my request
my instructors made careful observation of the tem¬
perature at different distances from the earth, with
the following results. In passing upward they found
the cold to increase for a distance of about ten miles,
when the temperature became stationary for perhaps
ninety, but about twenty-five miles beyond this it
became comparatively mild, and this temperature
continued until within about one hundred and fifty
miles of the first sphere, when it again became
intensely cold, and so continued until within about
fifty miles of that sphere, when the temperature again
became mild and delightful. They formed their
judgment of the distances by noting and comparing
the time required to traverse them.”
So here we have outside the earth transparent
zones, capable of intercepting waves of radiant heat
from the sun, without refracting or interfering with
waves of light. The assertion is in many ways at
variance with known facts.
When an observer comes into contact with a
medium through whom information of a physical
nature about distant regions can be given, this should
be first verified by obtaining information relating to
this planet, to acquire approximate evidence that
what is stated in relation to regions outside the earth
is trustworthy. Will Dr. Kenney’s spirits, without
troubling themselves as before to make, buy, or carry
spiritual thermometers, tell Dr. Crowell, by merely
taking the trouble to look on, all the events which
may transpire in Crozet’s Islands during the next
nine months ? Our Government is going to send a
man-of-war there, in the hope of finding a ship¬
wrecked crew. Telegraphs do not reach such high
latitudes. If Dr. Kenney’s spirits should be asked
to tell Dr. Crowell, for weekly publication, all that
transpires in those islands, and, in addition, give the
details of the visit of the British ship, they will be
only too delighted at this opportunity of proving the
A v: ■
Dec. 26, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
803
trustworthiness of their utterances about distant j <
regions. I j
All through the revelations through Mr. Kenney |)
the same conditions obtain. Houses, clothes, habits n
of life, rocks, mountains—all in the heavens are |)
nearly the same as on earth, only, to the deserving, |\
they are more beautiful. If a boy, full of apprecia- j)
tion of Christmas luxuries, and with a mind keenly j j
drawn to physical allurements, were in a dream to u
imaeine what heaven ought to, be, the outcome would i)
be much the same as that unconsciously revealed in |<
the book now under notice.
Even those spiritual powers which are to some \\
extent occasionally developed here on earth among n
the children of men, are denied by Mr. Kenney’s (
guides to exist among freed spirits. It is stated j)
(p. 96), ‘‘Spirits can no more communicate with each )
other without the use of speech than we can, and two j (
spirits of different nationalities meeting, and not |)
understanding the language of each other, would
labour under as many difficulties in attempting to j)
communicate as they would in the flesh.” Here, then, |
is a flat denial of the accuracy of statements made j<
through the lips of the majority of mediums inde- |)
pendently of each other, from Swedenborg and (
Thomas Lake Harris downwards. Whilst in a state jj
of trance the inspired Harris said :—
Man cannot tell the secrets of the life
Beyond the portals of the natural sphere ;
At best they dimly shadow out the truth,—
Too glorious ’tis for mortal minds to bear.
When mortal puts on immortality.
Corruption incorruption, when the grave
Hath lost its sting and death its victory,
When, free from all the passions of the earth,
The soul becomes a conscious element
In the One Harmony that moves through all,
Man is translated to a realm of thought
Incomprehensible to minds in time.
A language infinite in thought, whose tones
Are as the accents of Almighty God,
Assumes the place of the external tongue.
He speaks as he is wrought upon by powers
Innumerable and beyond himself,
And can at will in perfect freedom change
His state each hour, as crystals change their hue,
Turned at a varied angle to the sun.
Humanity in heaven has varied forms ;
Each race of angels differs in the sphere
Of its delights. Celestial faculties,
Varied as hues and harmonies of morn
And noon and sunset, alternating, give
Each various race some glory which is new
And special, and its own appropriate name.
This speciality may be received j)
By radiant spirits of each kindred sphere.
On earth men send their writings to their friends;
In heaven they give divinely glorious states,
Transmuting by the mighty alchemy
Of thought the spheral air around their friends;
And filling up the void with images
Of loveliest truths in loveliest forms combined. j)
Whose beauty winds like groves of Paradise
Bound the tranced angel whom they visit.
Angelic lovers give their blended love;
Sages their intellectual realms of truth;
Poets inspire the spirit till it grows
Itself a mielody, and floats afar j \
Through unimagined realms and seas of bliss,
And universal heavens of happy life.
Men give cold-thoughts and words on earth below,
But living worlds and spheres of bliss above.
Shakespeare gave Hamlet, Borneo, Juliet,
Art-forms that, clothed with beauty, walk the world,
And multiply themselves in every brain;
Cordelia, Desdemona, crownless Lear;
Timon and Shylock, Ealstaff and his crew,
Titania, Puck, and Oberon, and all
The fays of that sweet Midsummer-Night’s Dream,
Ariel, Miranda, gifted Prospero,
Each form the type of some essential state
Of mind or heart, some gift or sphere of power.
Some use or prescience of the intellect;
His thoughts have grown art-poems to the world.
Sweet, deathless entities, for he became
Creative. All the angel-peopled sun
Is one transcendent art-realm, where unfold
Myriads on myriads of evolving forms,
Which the artistic faculties of mind
Create, projecting outward from themselves;
And angels dramatise their radiant thoughts.
Marshalled in stately theatres, that ope
Their vast prosceniums for the inner sight.
Pass into rapport with an Angel’s mind,
And it becomes to you a living world.
Because each thought has its appropriate form.
The idea in the image glows revealed;
Therefore the wonders of the life to be
Transcend imagination. Every mind
Creates a universe within itself,
As various as the worlds that people space.
The constellations of the singing stars,
The multitudinous angel-peopled isles.
Transferring all it sees, or hears, or thinks,
All its enjoyments, all its ecstasies.
Into its own pure being, there to be
Forms in the picture gallery of the brain,
And statues in the Pantheon of the soul.
And landscapes in the spheres of memory.
Beatified in its perpetual life.
Man hath such universe within himself.
Even while he dwells below; strange are the beams
That gild the mountains of the soul in sleep.
The happy valleys, whose fair landscapes lie
Bathed in purpureal haloes, that disclose
Temple and palace, grotto, glen, and lake,
And silver stream, and lotus-covered pool.
And waterfall with rainbows glittering o’er—
That world is man’s own consciousness revealed.
’Tis hard to give man’s thoughts to the child’s brain,
Or outward light to infants in the womb;
So hard it is to give to mortal man
Defined conceptions of immortal life.
The charge of mysticism that all time
Has aimed at Bevelation, is deserved.
And mystery is the setting of the soul,
Beceding in the dimness of its sleep.
Chapter V. of the recent book, Spirits Before
Our Eyes, is full of experimental and other proof
that mortals can sometimes develop spiritual powers,
enabling them to present scenes and events in clear
and minute detail to the consciousness of others,
without the use of language.
Assuming a caterpillar to be able to see no farther
than a quarter of an inch beyond its head, a butterfly
who had forgotten the caterpillar language (if such
exist) would have insuperable difficulties in explain¬
ing to the crawling object on the stalk its own
butterfly appearance, mode of life, and condition of
existence. If the channel of communication were
perfect there would be nothing in the antecedent
experience of the caterpillar to enable it to take in
the new ideas. A. Kenney caterpillar-medium would
probably reveal to his fellows that butterflies are
wingless crawling insects, rather mores brightly
coloured than in their original state, who live in
perpetual youth on a magnificent, never - dying
cabbage, in a realm where cock-robins and other
804
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 26, 1879.
Hk
hideous devils with long beaks and good appetites
are unknown. The listeners would understand ' this,
and think it much better than the more accurate
description of the higher life contained in the trans¬
cendental utterances of the Ruskins and Sweden¬
borgs of the caterpillar family, which transcen¬
dentalism they would condemn as appertaining to
the limbo of the unpractical and the unreal, and un¬
worthy the notice of any respectable grub.
As a man advances in years the world of thought
assumes more and more the aspect of reality, and the
world of matter more and more the aspect of
a shadow; he sees laws and principles to be per¬
manent and inexorable, subjugating the phenomenal
conditions of matter to their sway. He even sees a
little world created by the power of human will,
when a mesmerist makes five or six sensitives believe
that they are shooting rooks in the branches of
imaginary trees above. The scene the mesmerist has
conjured up is real to the sensitives, and if any
Bradlaugh told them that it was not material they
would think he had lost his senses, and ask him to
examine their guns, to feel the iron barrels, to handle
the shot. If, as we have often said before, a man
can thus temporarily surround human beings with a
little world, by the use of spiritual means which he
does not understand, why should not a Greater
Power use the same spiritual laws in an orderly way,
and by the exercise of His will, surround us with a
thought-world which is real and material to us for three
score years and ten ? In fact, spiritual things may alone
be enduring and substantial, and the common ideas
about the fundamental reality of matter nothing but
a superstition. And. if we live already in a thought-
world, it is probable that the Creator is not so
deficient in resources and originality as to place us
hereafter in another so much like it, that its con¬
struction is a superfluous act, for a little French
polish administered to the world in which we live
would turn it into Mr. Kenney’s ideal heaven. The
dreams of the poet may become the facts of the life
beyond the grave, and “ thoughts that breathe and
words that burn ” may, in that high spiritual state,
altogether exceed in reality to our consciousness the
fleeting shadovr called “matter.” The things of the
spirit are real and eternal; though empires wane
and wax, and though the body may decay, human
affections remain unchanged. The phenomena of
materialism are ephemeral. W. H. Harbison.
AN INTERESTING CIRCUMSTANCE IN THE LIFE
OF BARON TON GULDENSTUBBE.*
RELATKl) BY HIMSELfr.
Baron yon Guldenstubbe was in Paris shortly
before the great war, and before his removal thence,
in consequence of a prediction to him by spirits of
the siege of the city, -when suddenly, while reading
the Gazette in a coffee-house, he found upon the
paper before him spirit writing requiring him to
..betake himself the next day, with certain ladies of
the';fir>st society of Paris, to the Picture' Gallery at
Yergaille^s. ,:The names of the ladies were expressly
mentioned: : they were some whose husbands had
V;;i A translation o£ a narrative published in Psychische Studien for December,
. comriiimi^ed to ttiat Journal lay Von P. R., in B.
&■; m S?7
already become convinced, through association with
the Baron, of the evidence of the communication of
spirits with earth, while the ladies, on the other
hand, were still doubtful of such mysteries. The
next day the ladies complied with the Baron’s invita¬
tion to go to Versailles. Already, at breakfast,
physical phenomena occurred, the table being raised,
with the dishes and champagne bottles, to the
ceiling of the room, &c., as had been the case else¬
where ; so I only mention it. Afterwards, physical
manifestations happened also in the Picture Gallery,
and direct spirit writing, produced by the united
forces and wills of Baron von Guldenstubbe and hiS
ecstatic sister, without any other” appliance than a
piece of paper, with which the above-mentioned
ladies had provided themselves. When each of
them had received the most striking proof of the
writing of one deceased, whose picture hung there,
they were approached by the (late) Bishop of
Orleans, Monsieur Dupanloup, in his canonicals,
as he had just been celebrating mass. Being
acquainted with the ladies from Paris, he also
addressed Baron von Guldenstubbe, expressing
regret that he, the Baron, adhered to the faith of
the foreigners, being an Englishman by birth, con¬
sequently a follower of Luther, and an enemy of
Rome. Luther would now himself have perceived
the impiety of the division of the Christian Church,
and was suffering for it in Purgatory, &c. To which
the Baron replied that he was indeed a Lutheran, but
a Swede, and that he did not believe that Luther was
either in Purgatory or in Hell. In order to prove
his opinion, he desired the right reverend bishop to
lay a piece of clean paper on the floor under the
picture of Luther which hung over the door, and to
expect the result with confidence. The high prelate
complied with the Baron’s request, took a sheet of
paper from his pearl-bedizened note book, and laid
it under Luther’s portrait.
After some minutes, when the prelate took up
again the same piece of paper from the floor, the
following was found distinctly written upon it—
In vita pestis eram Papse,
la morte mors ero.
LutherusA
Highly astonished to have accidentally made the
acquaintance of Baron von G. and his sister, and
to have by their means obtained the certainty of the
individual survival of the human soul, the Bishop
extended his hand to the brother and sister, request¬
ing permission to visit them in Paris, as he afterwards
repeatedly did. I only introduce this fact*f* because
doubts have been expressed as to the genuinenesss of
the direct spirit writing produced by the united
mystical force of Baron von G. and his sister.
Nevertheless, the facts are known in Paris, so that
Baron von G. was prohibited by the Emperor
Napoleon from going up to the tomb in St. Denis,
where he had obtained direct writing from many
kings there—if cften only siiigle words—and also
from Marie Antoinette, whose writing resembled that
in her lifetime. This is attested by the overseer of
the Gobelin (tapestry) factory at that place, in whose
* “In life I was to the jjPope a plague,
In death, I will be his death.
.« Luther.”
t The other communications of the writer relate fb facts of animal mag¬
netism, in which Baron voii G. was a proficient.—Tr.
Dec. 26, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
805
possession letters of the deceased queen, Marie j (
Antoinette, ar'e to be found at this day.
Such facts speaking, truly all earthly wisdom is j
put to silence
Whoever was personally acquainted with Baron j(
von Guldenstubbe and his sister will, like Professor j)
Fichte, not doubt the truth of that which this re- j(
markable brother and sister have disclosed to the )
world in their writings. Besides his studies in occult (
sciences, the Baron healed the sick by his animal j)
magnetism, and in this way, as well as by other !(
experiments, his vitality was greatly weakened, so j>
that he unfortunately died too soon to enjoy the j\
fruits of his experiences and labours while on earth— j /
fruits which surely await him on the other side.
Yon P. R.
BLOOD WRITING.
BY F. ARUNDALE.
A few evenings ago I had the pleasure of wit- !: j
nessing writing on the arm through the mediumship |; j
of Mr. W. Eglinton. As the manifestation was pro- i j
duced in a remarkable and interesting manner, I
think a short account of the process employed by the (
spirits may be interesting to your many readers.
We found ourselves, a party of six including the |>|
medium, assembled in the seance room of my friend |\|
Mrs. Woodforde. Seated round the table, we lu
remained chatting for some moments ; the room was ;)j
lighted by one gas burner, turned down a little. Mr. |)|
Eglinton having asked if we had ever seen writing on U
the arm, remarked also that he had sometimes \\\
obtained it. Paper and pencils being on the table, j>j
Mr. Eglinton tore two small pieces, and requested (j
Mrs. P. and myself to write the names of some j>j
friends in the spirit world. We did so and folded ;(j
each piece of paper small, and left them lying on the i >
table. The medium then asked permission to remove j(i
his coat; we assented, and taking it off he turned j/j
up his shirt-sleeves, baring both amis, which we j(l
examined, and found the skin smooth and in a per- j>j
fectly natural state. . , . i(|
While still in conversation the spirit Daisy took i)j
control, speaking through Mr. Eglinton in the trance, i (|
She asked for a match, and caused the medium to j)j
set fife to one of the papers, which burned to a black i(i
cinder, the medium holding it blazing in his joined 1)
palms, and the black papef cinder remained lying |\i
in one of his hands. It was my paper which had |}|
been selected. “Breathe on his arm,” said the fvj
medium, still under control, extending the left |)|
arm towards me, “and wish for something in con- Kl
nection with your friend’s name, to be written while ;/ j
you breathe/’ I did so, mentally calling on my Kj
brother George, whose name I had written on the
paper, to manifest.
The medium then crushed the paper cinder on his i) j
arm, and passing his hand to and fro, a large smear ;4j
was made on the arm; as he continued rubbing there |) |
gradually appeared in the dark stain the words : “I K!
promised to come. God be with you!—George.” j(
These words were written in a bold round hand, the ||
capital letters being fully an inch long, and the small K |
letters a quarter of an inch. We rose from our chairs,
and bending over the medium watched the letters
gradually appear on the surface of the skin. The
medium then lighted the other paper, burned it in
the same way, and turning to Mrs. P. he requested
her to breathe on his other arm, and mentally desire
something to be written in relation to the name
which had been previously inscribed on the burnt
paper.
The same process of crushing the paper cinder
on the arm and smearing it was repeated, and be¬
neath the rubbing of the medium’s palm the words
“ Willie” appeared, as wished for, in letters of the
same size as those on the other arm. The writing
remained for some minutes, and then began slowly
to disappear. I may State, injustice to the medium,
that he did not know whom he was to meet at the
seance, which fact would destroy the allegation on
the part of sceptics of any previous preparation of
the arm before joining our party.
We afterwards had some materialisations, which,
as we were a very harmonious circle of earnest
believers, and therefore gave forth no repellent in¬
fluences, were remarkably perfect, the spirits giving
their own tests. For instance, Mr. Eglinton was
retiring from our midst behind the curtain, and whilst
his form was still in view, the first spirit appeared—
a veiled figure—actually passing him in our sight.
She opened the curtains several times, advancing a
little towards us. The curtains had scarcely dropped
before her for the last time when Abdullah fairly
darted out into the room and made a low obeisance,
in Eastern fashion. Unlike the closely-draped female
spirit, his tall, remarkably slender foi’m, attired in
closely-fitting white garments, was plainly visible
through a long, transparent over-robe. All who
have seen Mr. Eglinton’s materialisations will
remember the striking grace of Abdullah’s poses and
movements, his form presenting the most perfect
contrast to the medium’s rather thickset figure. The
light was sufficient to enable us to see features at a
distance of frotn three to four feet.
Subsequently, on being requested to have dark¬
ness, we were rewarded by the sudden appearance of
Ernest’s head in a mass of snow-white drapery,
illuminated by a very brilliant light. This head
approached us very nearly, floating sometimes almost
to the ceiling. After a time the previously round
light was formed into a cross of quite four inches in
length, the arms being about three inches across, and
the breadth of arms ahd upright a quarter of an inch
—the largest cross I have ever seen formed in this
way, and sufficiently bright to illuminate Ernest’s
face.
Before parting, Ernest gave us a very beautiful
address, followed by Joey in his quaint style, I must
not forget to mention Joey’s very skilful performance
on the mouth-organ of three tunes, one being “ Home,
sweet Home,” with variations, the forte and
'pianissimo passages very strongly marked. This
was Mr. Eglinton’s first stance on his return to
London, and the manifestations through him bay
certainly attained to great perfection, andLjhejWia
evidently lost nothing during his travels
21, St. Edmund’s-terrase, Regent’s Park, London,
December 20th,
ISi
306
THE SPI
PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S NEW VOLUME OF
| SCIENTIFIC TREATISES.”
In an early number we hope to attempt some
review of this, one of the most important publica¬
tions in the history of Spiritualism, at least with
regard to the scientific recognition of its facts, and
to the effect which such recognition is likely to pro¬
duce upon the public mind. Professor Zollner is not
contented with giving the authority of his name and
testimony : he has resolved to do battle d outrance,
to the prejudice and unfairness which have been
manifested in Germany as in this country, but it
would seem with even greater bitterness and inso¬
lence. Secure in facts which can be explained away
by no hypothesis of delusion, credulity, or mistake,
backed by the testimony of colleagues, of whom it
may be said, as of himself, that exact observation is
the habit of their whole lives, he will not suffer these
facts to be either neglected or misrepresented with¬
out an emphatic appeal to the scientific and even to
the moral conscience of his countrymen. His great
reputation compels a hearing; and German mate¬
rialism is threatened with the only reaction it really
dreads—the rebound from collision with demon¬
strable facts.
No doubt, in Professor Zbllner’s eyes, the facts
have a peculiar value from the relation he supposes
them to bear to the hypothesis of a fourth dimension
of space, which he holds in common with some emi¬
nent English mathematicians. This hypothesis is
but little understood, and scientific Spiritualists
should certainly endeavour to grasp its meaning
before putting it aside.
Our first interest, however, is in the recognition of
the facts; and it is too early to speculate on the
probable effect of Zbllner’s influence.
The present volume contains full reference to the
investigations of his scientific predecessors, who have
so honourably committed their reputations to the
avowal of unpopular truth. Among the illustrations
is a portrait of Mr. Crookes, with whose name that
of Zbllner will henceforth be associated in a fame
which will imply an equal reproach to too many of
their distinguished contemporaries in science. And
not the least satisfaction we expect to find in this
volume, as in the earlier ones, is the conclusive vindi¬
cation of the medium Slade, in a work which will live
and be read.
. With the acknowledgment of the phenomena
described by Professor Zbllner, presumptions which
told so fatally against Slade at Bow-street will be
turned in his favour, and it will be seen that spirit or
other occult agency may, under certain circum¬
stances and conditions, take on the appearance of a
trick so clumsy and stupid as hardly to be attributed
to a practised deceiver. Professor Zbllner’s generous
indignation at the undeserved obloquy from which
Slade has suffered, is not the least agreeable feature
in the book.
Popular Superstitions in West Somerset.—I had a family
in my parish which numbered seven daughters, and people came
from far and near to be touched by the youngest of them for the
king’s evil. The practice was only discontinued when, as the
child described it, she grew weak and ill, from feeling something
go out of her after each application.— W. T. W., Notes and
Queries, Dec. 13th,
RITUALIST.
Dec. 26, 1879.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diame~
trically opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communica¬
tions cannot he returned; copies should he kept by the icriters. Preference is given
to letters which are not anonymous.']
DR. M0NCK.
Sir,—A sense of duty compels me to address you in support
of the appeal on behalf of Dr. Monck, which I observe you have
kindly inserted in your journal.
Many Spiritualists are acquainted with the distressing par¬
ticulars of Dr. Monck’s case, but many doubtless are ignorant of
them, and I observe that these claims are prominently put
forward in the other Spiritualist papers.
Dr. Monck voluntarily and conscientiously abandoned, for the
cause of Spiritualism, a respected and popular position in the
Baptist Church, and thereby lost a good and permanent income.
Having some private means he spent all in propagating the new
truths, by seances, lectures, and healing, seldom taking any pay¬
ment so long as his own means lasted. For doing this he was, like
other martyrs for a new, misunderstood, and unpopular cause,
unjustly and cruelly persecuted, and from want of timely help
and good legal assistance condemned, and his sufferings during
this period laid the foundation of his present bad health.
But if the seeds of disease were thus sown by an unjust and
unmerited persecution for the truth’s sake, his health was, 1 fear,
ruined by the effect of the extraordinary materialisations which
occurred through him in London in 1877, and which were fully
reported at the time in The Spiritualist, and the details of which
it is unnecessary now to repeat. I shall therefore only say that
the lesson to be learnt, as it seems to me, from his unhappy ex¬
perience, is that it is very hazardous for mediums to have materiali¬
sations such as those in the light, without a cabinet, the form
and the medium continuing for a very considerable time in the
same room together with the circle.
Since these materialisations Dr. Monck has been in a lament¬
able state of health, and his mediumistic powers have almost
entirely ceased ; and although he remained for upwards of a year
as an honoured guest with us here, and four months in Naples
with Signor Damiani, in the hope of recovery, I regret to say
that no improvement has taken place. In the opinion of many
friends he should spend this winter and next spring in a warmer
climate; but for this he has not the means.
If his health should be restored, and if he should succeed in
procuring a livelihood by means of certain inventions, spiritually
suggested, which he is trying to patent, it is his intention agam
to devote himself, as an unpaid medium, to the investigation of
psychologic and spiritualistic phenomena.
Having stated thus shortly the leading facts of the case, I
leave the matter, trusting that they will be carefully weighed
and properly responded to, as the circumstances of the case
require, and as Spiritualists, with their superior advantages,
ought to respond to them.
Mediums have been generally rather hardly treated, and I think
Spirituahsts should seize an opportunity when laid before them
of doing justice and practising benevolence, else what superiority
in moral effect does Spiritualism offer over any other systen of
belief? A. J. Cranstoun.
Villa Fluhli, Lucerne, Switzerland, December 14tb, 1879.
NEW BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM.
Several new books, likely to be of considerable
value to Spiritualism, will shortly be issued from The
Spiritualist office. One of the earliest to be pub¬
lished will be Psychic Facts, containing within one
cover a great concentration of authoritative testimony
as to the reality of the phenomena. It will consist of
an authorised collection of some of the writings of Mr.
William Crookes, Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr. C. F.
Yarley, the Dialectical Society’s Committee, Mr.
Serjeant Cox, and others. It will also contain
general information about Spiritualism, to serve as a
guide to those who know nothing of the subject.
This, and other works, will be published in about
five or six weeks’ time.
Dec. 26, 1879.
THE SP IRITUALIST.
307
CAN THE USE OF ANAESTHETICS DEMONSTRATE
THE EXISTENCE OF THE SOUL?
BY GEORGE WYLD, M.D., EDINBURGH.
In the year 1800, Humphry Davy, then twenty-
two years of age, suggested that the inhalation of
nitrous-oxide gas might be used in surgical operations
as a means of preventing pain; but it was not until
1844 that Mr. Horace Wells, a dentist residing at
Hartford, Connecticut, used it in extricating teeth,
and thus demonstrated the truth of Humphry Davy’s
conjecture.
In the year 1846 Dr. Morton, of Boston, U.S.,
demonstrated for the first time that the severest
surgical operations could he performed without pain
under the inhalation of the vapour of sulphuric ether.
Lastly, Sir James Simpson, of Edinburgh, introduced
the beneficent use of chloroform in the labours of
child-bed.
Anaesthetics having thus conferred on poor suffer¬
ing humanity the inestimable blessing of painless
surgery, I ask with reverence and hope : Are anaes¬
thetics not yet destined to confer on the human race
the infinitely greater boon of scientifically demon¬
strating the existence, free from the body, of the
human soul ?
It is true that the vast majority of human beings
do instinctively believe in the existence of the human
soul; and this is of all arguments the' strangest,
because any spiritual belief, which is all but universal
in the human mind, must be regarded as an instinc¬
tive revelation in harmony with the nature of man,
and therefore true; and when, further, this instinct is
found to increase the happiness and welfare of the
human race, the proof to me seems absolute, because
no falsehood can produce ultimate good.
There are, however, among the scientific minds of
the present day, an ever-increasing number of
thoughtful, truthful, and benevolent men, who doubt
or deny that there exists any entity or ego apart
from the body, and these men assert that when the
bodily organisation dies the man himself, so far as
evidence goes, becomes extinct.
Let us then inquire whether or not this ma¬
terialistic assertion is true, or whether the use of
anaesthetics cannot demonstrate that this assertion of
unbelief is contrary to fact.
It has been long known that persons who have been
all but drowned, so as to appear actually dead, but
who—it may be after hours of restorative labour—
have been restored to consciousness, have sometimes
declared that the process of drowning, after the first
struggle, was not agonising, but actually pleasurable.
These individuals have sometimes said that the
entire history of their lives flashed before them as if
photographed instantaneously, and that then they
have seemed to ascend to heavenly regions and
celestial felicity.
Again, many of those who have inhaled nitrous-
oxide, which produces asphyxia exactly analagous to
that of drowning, have expressed their enjoyment of
like happiness, even as their teeth were being
extracted.
The same results have often followed the use of
chloroform ; and I myself, some six years ago, on one
occasion, while inhaling chloroform as a relief to the
agony of passing a small calculus, suddenly, to my
surprise, found my ego, or soul, or reasoning faculty,
clothed, and in the form of my body, standing about
two yards outside my body, and contemplating that
body as it lay motionless on the bed.
This startling discovery was to me most significant,
and I have mentioned the fact to many others since.
Yesterday, becoming suddenly awakened to the
important signification of this experience, I called
on three medical men who had very large experience
in the giving of anaesthetics.
In reply to my question, one gentleman said, “ I
can quite believe your assertion, as I have often
heard patients express a similar idea, although in a
confused way.” Another gentleman said, “ He had
himself on those occasions taken chloroform, and on
each occasion he found himself, as it were, pleasantly
whirling and soaring in the air m and the third
gentleman said, “ My patients have often said that
under my operations they felt no pain, but saw all I
was doing like spectators looking on and watching
the operations.”
In connection with these facts concerning drown¬
ing and anaesthetics, I will here draw attention to
what are called mesmeric experiments.
I have, during the last forty years, witnessed many
mesmeric experiments, and I have found that certain
individuals, while their minds have been concentrated
on a point and their breathing has become slower
and slower, have passed into trance more or less pro¬
found, and while in this state it is well known from
the evidence of Dr. Esdaile, of Calcutta, and others,
that the several surgical operations have been per¬
formed not only without pain, but while the patient
has at the same time passed into ecstatic joys.
The history of ecstatic martyrs has furnished
additional evidence in this direction.
Thus we find in mesmeric trance a condition of
things exactly analagous to what we sometimes find
during the administration of anaesthetics.
Lastly, those who have studied Oriental Theosophy
know that there is an order of Hindu Ascetics who,
living lives of fasting, contemplation, and prayer,
can so discipline their bodies as by practice to retain
the breath until they become asphyxiated.
They assert that thus they can project their souls
from the body, and, becoming entranced, ascend to
God.
The Romish saints, without exactly practising the
same method, so far as the breath is concerned, also
became entranced, and, “.ascending to heaven, unite
their souls with the Lord.”
Now all this is one.
Whether by drowning, asphyxiating gases, mes¬
meric asphyxia, or “internal breathing,” or the self-
imposed asphyxia of the Hindu Ascetics, or the
entrancements of the ecstatic saints, the modus
operandi is analogous and the result identical,
namely, the temporary death of the body, and thus,
the temporary freeing of the soul. As St. Paul says,'
“ Dead in the body, but alive in the spirit.” » *'
This asphyxia is dangerous if pushed too far by
the operation of medicinal substances; but in the
entrancement produced by mesmerism or ecstasy, the
condition may exist for hours, days, or even weeks,
while the ecstatic declares on his return to earth-
consciousness that he has in spirit outside his body
308
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 26, 1879.
been in Paradise, and beheld things impossible to
utter. Although St. Paul says that when caught up
into Paradise he beheld things not lawful to utter, he
knew not whether he was in or out of the body.
The sceptic will say all this proves nothing but
hallucination and dreams.
In reply to this objlection, I would say that trance
is a condition entirely beyond mere sleep, and that
visions of the. spirit are entirely distinct from the
dreams of imperfect sleep.
No one in mere sleep can submit to painful opera¬
tions, not only without flinching, but with the smile
of joy on his face; and no one dreams that he is
outside his body; he dreams that he is with his
body ; and sceptics who merely suggest explanations
cannot have the weight of those who assert their
beliefs from experience.
I therefore submit that sceptics have, with the use
nf ansesthetics, a physical and scientific means of
testing the beliefs and assertions of pneumologists as
to the existence outside the body of the soul or ego
as a scientific fact.
The sceptic will deny that the all but universal
belief of human beings in the existence of the soul
has any scientific weight. He will further deny the
authority of spiritual revelations. He will discredit
the experiments of mesmerists, and deny the asser¬
tions of Hindu or Christian ecstatics; but if he
experiment with medicinal an ses the tics on his
own person, and find out, as I and others have done,
that the soul may be projected outside the body, and
externally exist as the true ego, he may then be
induced to believe in the existence of the human
soul.
If thus the soul can be demonstrated as a foct,
the next step is to postulate that the ego, or soul, or
mind is a unity.
All visible substances are compounds, and as com¬
pounds are liable to disintegration, decay, and death.
Even the royal gold can thus be, from its liability to
slow decay, shown to be not an elementary but a
compound substahce. But the soul as a unity is
incapable of division, therefore incapable of decay,
and is therefore immortal.
12, Great Oumberland-place, Hyde Park, London,
December ISth, 1879;
♦
PERSdNAL OBSERVATIONS.*
BY GUSTAV THEODORE FECHNER.
Zollner, in the account which he has given in his
i Scientific Treatises ” of the spiritualistic sittings at
Leipsic with the American medium, Slade, has made
mention of nly testimony as well as that of W.
Weber and Scheibner; nor have I disclaimed this
testimony, only it falls far short of, and weighs even
with myself much less than that of Zollner himself
and of his other co-observers, for I was only present
at two of the first series of sittings, which were not
among the most decisive, and even then much more
as a mere looker-on than as an experimenter; and
this would certainly not have sufficed, for myself
* From “The Day-View, versus the Night-View,” of Gustav Theodore
Fechner (Leipsic, 1879). Translation of part of ah extract from the above,
published in Piiychische Studiev, for December.
even, conclusively to repel the suspicion of trickery.
But taking what I saw myself, without being able
to discover any deception by the closest attention,
with the results of the recorded observations and
actual experiments of my scientific friends in the
latter sittings, and with those of English investigators,
and taking also into consideration that the same
'phenomena which are here suspected to be fraud
and trickery are established by good observers as
having occurred elsewhere through mediums who
were exempt from all suspicion in this respect: all
this influences me with a force of conviction from
which I cannot escape, much as I should like to do
so in regard to certain phenomena.
Yes, incredible as the spiritualistic facts from the
first may appear, it is, nevertheless, my opinion that,
given generally faith in persons, and the possibility
of establishing facts by observations, all empirical
science must be abandoned, if we will not yield to
the mass and weight of testimony which are forth¬
coming for the actuality of the spiritualistic phe¬
nomena. Without regarding the multitude of voices,
I will here speak only of one voice, reference to
which not only influences me most strongly, but has
also the greatest contemporary interest.
If Zdllner, who may be considered as the principal
champion of the actuality of spiritualistic phe¬
nomena in Germany, as well as myself, who make no
pretension to independent authority as an observer
in this field, but rely upon his observations, is
regarded as a visionary, who sees what he wishes to
see, it should first be asked whether he has ever
shown himself such in the province of observation,
and whether his fine inventions and discoveries, so
faithful for the exact natural sciences, are illusions.
But should one insist upon confounding the boldness
with which he builds conclusions upon facts with
defective observation of the facts themselves, and
upon opposing the personality of his critique, to which
I will not commit myself, to the respect due to his
person (which is to return a blow with a death-blow),
yet his account of spiritualistic facts rests not solely
on his authority, but also upon the authority of a
man in whom the very spirit, so to say, of exact
observation and induction is embodied, W. Weber,
whose renown in this respect has never been
impugned up to the moment when he avouched
the reality of spiritualistic phenomena. To hold him
also from this moment for a bad observer, who has
let himself be duped by a conjurer, or for a visionary,
Seduced by a predilection for mystical things, is truly
somewhat strong, or much rather weak, and yet that
is implied in the rejection of his testimony. For my
own part I confess that after he, in a whole series of
sittings together with Zbllner and, for the most part,
also Scheibner, one of the most acute and rigorous
mathematicians, not only looked on at the experi¬
ments with Slade, but took in hand and had in hand
all appliances and measures adopted at them, one
word of his testimony for the reality of the spirit¬
ualistic phenomena weighs more with me than all
that has been said or written on the other side by
those who have never been themselves observers in
this field, or have only observed it as one looks on at
Dec. 26, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
309
conj urers, and who hold themselves theteafter entitled
to speak of objective conjuring tricks. Yet is W.
Weber only one of a succession of investigators
worthy of the highest respect who, after similar careful
testing, vouch for the reality of these phenomena,
against the multitude of those who, so to speak,
throw stones at them from a distance; in other words,
heap against them all possible indefinite grounds of
suspicion which can be thought, or indeed cannot be
thought, with reference to the things as described,
and so believe they have said something to the pur¬
pose. Superficiality in this field is certainly far more
on the side of the opponents than of the defenders of
Spiritualism, among whom I reckon only those de¬
fenders who are outside of Spiritualism. Yes, even
if Spiritualism were a perversion, the means used
against it would be yet more perverse, and the fact
that none better are found speaks for itself that there
are none.
In all other departments of investigation con¬
clusions are only drawn from successful attempts, and
the failures are cast aside, just because they are
failures; but in relation to Spiritualism the reverse
method is adopted by its opponents, who draw con¬
clusions only from failures, and throw aside the suc-
cessesjust because they are successes. Had Zollner’s knot
experiments not succeeded under the most stringent
precautions adopted, stress would have been Hid upon
them; succeeding, they are worthless ! But tricks,
which every one can imitate who has learned the art
—only not under those secure conditions—these
count. And so with all successful attempts in this
field conducted by good observers. Elsewhere,
investigations in a new field of observation are carried
on under the conditions of their success : here the
conditions are prescribed beforehand; and if, for
example, an attempt under safe precautions succeeds
in the dark or in shade,* it is of no account because
it was not in the light ; if it succeeds also, under
more favourable conditions, in the light, then is it
of no account because it has succeeded at all! Else¬
where maturity of experience and of judgment are
considered favourable to every investigation; here
they pass for senility, if the result is in favour of
Spiritualism ; and eggs esteem themselves here
cleverer than hens. Elsewhere, if fingers point to
things, one looks in the direction to see if the things
are there ; here, one hacks off the fingers that point
to them, so that one first takes care not to see, and
then writes treatises to prove that nothing is to be
seen.
Why, now, instead of such methods, which only
evince impotence in dealing with Spiritualism, not
adopt the only sufficient one, that is, to oppose to
the actual observations which evidence Spiritualism,
others against it, carried out with the like circumspec¬
tion, care, conscientiousness, impartiality, under just as
many altered circumstances, with non-professional as
with professional mediums, as the best of those which
attest it? And is there nothing whatever of the kind ?
Truly! Only that this method, when it has been
adopted, has led rather to compulsory recognition
* That darkness is conducive to the success of spiritualistic^ experiments
should not appear so strange, the disturbance from an irritation on this
side being thereby removed ; in general, however, it has been shown that
with stronger power in the medium the same experiments succeed also in the
light which with less power require darkness or shade.
than to the designed refutation of Spiritualism ; for,
indeed, none of the physicists who have declared
themselves for Spiritualism after searching and
earnest investigation could have originally intended
anything else than this refutation.*
Speaking and writing against Spiritualism go
their way, and Spiritualism goes its way; but the
first way does not cross the latter at all, but is merely
beside it; and Spiritualism is not retarded in its
advance by the outcries against it; that has proved
so hitherto, and will be proved further,
If in the foregoing I have interested myself for the
reality of Spiritualism, that is, as is not less evident
from the foregoing, not from any sympathy with it,
but because j ustice is duo to the thing and to persons;
for willingly as one might put aside Spiritualism
altogether at any price, yet is the price of truth too
high. The <f Day-view ” (Tagesansicht) can exist
with or without Spiritualism: preferably, however,
without rather than with it, for if in sotne weighty
points they coincide, and the latter may, and I
believe up to certain limits actually does, Support the
former, yet does its abnormality disturb not only this,
but the whole system of our previous knowledge;
and only just on this account can I content myself
with its reality, because I take account at the same
time of this its abnormal character, owing to which
it can find a, fitting place neither in the healthy life
itself, nor in the healthy life of science. Now it is
no satisfaction for the champion of the “ Day-view ”
to be obliged to admit one more shady side in
the account of the world. That I am not generally
well disposed to mystical phenomena is proved by
my pamphlet On the Last Bays of the Doctrine of
Od. However, I am seventy-eight years old, and
have written the Zendavesta and this book, facts
which will be more in requisition by opponents who
encounter Spiritualism in the manner described above.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN PUBLIC.
A CONTINUOUS IRON RING THREADED ON THE NECK OF A
MEDIUM.
Professional mediums, to be successful in the
world, should either present undeniably real mani¬
festations Ar none at all; every dubious phenomenon
does more harm than good to their reputations, for
sceptics never give them the benefit of any doubt.
As the threading of a large iron ring on one of
their arms, in the dark, while the hand of that arm
is held by an investigator, is a common manifesta¬
tion, why do not those who wish to give seances in
public, sit to obtain the manifestation of the thread¬
ing round the neck of a thick iron ring, too small
and inflexible to pass over the head ?
We quote from an old number of The Banner of
Light the following article, by Mr. Washington
Danskin, to show that it has already been repeatedly
done in public in America:—
In a recent number of the Banner of Light, I per-
* With all deference to the learned author, such an intention, before all
investigation, is hardly consistent with the “ impartiality ” (unbefaiigenheifj
which he has mentioned as one of the qualifications for arriving at the truth.
—Note by Translator,
310^  THE SPI RITUAL 1ST. 26, 1879.
ceive that one of the visitors to your “spirit-circle”
asked whether the ring manifestation, said to be given
in the presence of Mr. Danskin and others, were
genuine or not ? As the controlling influence seemed
not prepared to answer the question definitely, I will
assume that responsibility, and assure our inquiring
friend that the “ring manifestation ” is not only true
and genuine in its character, but is so perfectly simple
and free from all possibility of trickery or legerde¬
main, that it never fails to convince the candid inves¬
tigator of the presence of an invisible, intelligent
power. .
In order that your readers may understand the rise
and progress of this new fact in physics, which has
puzzled the most advanced of the scientists among
us, I will, as briefly as the subject will admit, narrate
the facts as they have come under my notice.
I must observe, however, preliminarily, that this
particular class of spirit manifestations has no special
attraction for me. I delight in the communion of
spirits — in the interchange of sympathies and
affections between the visible and invisible worlds.
I revel in the sublime idealities ever springing
forth under the quickening influence of our angelic
inspirers. I enjoy a new heaven and a new earth
in the ever-expanding revelations of our divine
philosophy, and I do not need these physical
manifestations of spirit power either to strengthen
my faith or sustain my interest in that work
to which I have so unselfishly devoted those hours of
my life that can properly be spared from secular
avocations ; but I do honour and uphold, as far as my
power extends, all classes of media who honestly and
fairly submit their manifestations to the candid ex¬
amination of the earnest inquirer, whether their
labours be of the intellectual, sympathetic, or physical
phases. And now to my narrative.
On the 20th of January, 1867, a youth, apparently
about nineteen or twenty years of age, introduced
himself to me, and stated that he, like the Daven¬
ports, could free himself, no matter how securely he
might be tied. After conversing with him sufficiently
to convince myself of the probability both of his
honesty and his mediumship, I proposed to investi¬
gate his claims that evening, provided he would
submit to any test I might deem proper to apply.
He readily assented, and presented himself at my
dwelling at the appointed hour. Meanwhile I had
procured a pair of handcuffs, ninety-six feet of small
rope, and. a board about the height and width of his
body, with twenty-five holes in it, each large enough
to pass the rope through.
He was first handcuffed, then placed with his back
against the board, and the ropes, securely fastened
about his limbs and body, were then passed through
the holes and tied on the outside. A large and
powerful man was present, and aided me in tying
the youth. We both worked diligently for twenty-
five minutes, and were both confident that no
unaided mortal could free himself from such bondage.
He was then carried into an adjoining room,
left there in the dark, and in four and a half
minutes he walked in among us, with the board
under his arm, and the handcuffs dangling' from his
finger.
At this time,, the first Spiritualist congregation of
(j Baltimore was holding weekly social meetings at
j| Saratoga Hall, which, after some further experiments
| (| at my dwelling, I induced the medium to attend.
|)| The exhibitions there were perfectly successful. On
j (| one occasion an experienced sea captain was one of
m the committee on tying, and being skilful in handling
| ( I the ropes, he did the work more perfectly and artisti-
m cally, perhaps, than usual. Besides some ten or a
| \ | dozen knots, which were tied behind the board, there
||| were two loops around the neck, drawn nearly as close
||| as could be borne''without strangulation, and tied
j j with all the skill of this sceptical mariner. But the
j\j medium came from under the cover, after a few
i) j minutes, entirely free and without any of the knots
||i being untied. The greatest sensation, however, was
j) | created by the fact that the loops, which had been
j j around the neck, were not at all enlarged, but still
](| remained some six or seven inches smaller than the
Kj medium’s head.
This singular occurrence made so strong an im-
m pression upon a gentleman present, that on the next
j)l day he went to a coachsmith’s shop, and had an iron
jsi ring made some seven inches smaller in circum-
jij ference than the medium’s head ; and, bringing it to
I j j me, asked if I would place it, when next sitting with
| < | the medium, in connection with the ropes and hand-
j >| cuffs, and see what result would follow ? I did so on
j<I three or four occasions without effect; but on Sunday
| > | night, some ten days after the ring was first placed
j<| in my possession, the medium was sitting in my
i) | dressing-room, a number of friends were in the ad-
lll joining chamber, and, after some forty minutes passed
j) j in the dark, he called me to come to him, his voice
| | indicating fear or mental excitement. Upon entering
j)j the room we found him tied securely to a chair, the
I j | iron ring around his neck, and a portion of the rope
l|| wrapped around the ring. After carefully examining
| the ring, we extinguished the light, left him again
Ij alone in the room, and the same power that had pro-
| duced this wonderful phenomena released him from
I his fetters.
After this manifestation had occurred some five or
| six times in connection with the ropes and handcuffs,
| I tried the experiment with the ring alone, and some-
| times he would remain in the dark only two or three
minutes before the ring would be around his neck.
| At other sittings fifteen or twenty minutes would
| pass before it was accomplished, and occasionally the
| effort would be unsuccessful, no manifestation
occurring.
The gentleman who suggested the ring, and the
| smith who made it, entered into a conspiracy to test
| the matter most effectually.
Another ring precisely similar in appearance was
| made, marked by four indentations while the metal
I was soft, and brought to the hall, at one of our
| public exhibitions, without the knowledge of myself
| or the medium. Watching their opportunity, they
| substituted the marked ring for the one originally
j used, and placed it under cover with the medium.
The manifestation was successfully given, but the
| time was somewhat extended, and the medium was
ill: very much exhausted. The first ring had been
| j | thoroughly mesmerised by our invisible friends, and
||1 the other had not. Had I known the purpose of the
1)1 parties I would not have permitted it; for although
Dec. 26, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ill
the intention was, probably, not unkind, it might
have caused much annoyance and injury to the
medium.
I append to this article the certificate of some
thirty persons who have witnessed the manifestation
—not because I deem it necessary to offer any cor¬
roboration of my own statement, for it is entirely
immaterial to myself personally who accepts or who
rejects the facts here narrated, but because, in
presenting an account of this remarkable pheno¬
menon, I desire to have the evidence perfect and
complete.
By special invitation, a party of eighteen or twenty
gentlemen was assembled in my parlours one evening
for the purpose of investigating this wonder which was
then exciting the public mind, and among them was
one of the most learned and eminent of our medical
men—a man who stands foremost among the scientific
celebrities of our city. He, with two others forming
the committee, carefully examined and marked the
ring previous to the manifestation. The medium
retired to the adjoining room, and in a few minutes
returned with the ring around'his neck, and remained
in the parlour among my guests some fifteen or
twenty minutes, giving ample opportunity for the
most careful scrutiny.
The distinguished gentleman to whom I have
before alluded, after submitting the ring to the closest
examination, after passing the edge of his penknife
around the entire circumference of the ring, while it
was upon the medium’s neck, said to me :
“ Mr. Danskin, I will not attempt to say by what
power this effect is produced, for it is beyond the
known laws of Nature; but I do say, sir, that the
fact to which you invited our attention has been un¬
questionably established.
Once, when only three persons were present—the
medium, a friend, and myself—we sat together in a
dark room ; I held the left hand of the medium, my
friend held his right hand—our other hands being
joined—and, while thus sitting, the ring, which I had
thrown some distance from us on the floor, suddenly
came around my arm. I had never loosened my
hold upon the medium, yet that solid iron ring, by an
invisible power, was made to clasp my arm, thus
demonstrating the power of our unseen friends to
separate and reunite, as well as to expand, the par¬
ticles of which the ring was composed.
In the earlier manifestations of this remarkable
phenomenon, when a portion of the rope was wrapped
around the ring, some cavillers, more captious than
wise, suggested that a joint in the ring might be
concealed by the rope; but when the rope was dis¬
pensed with and the naked ring was used alone, all
intelligent scepticism was silenced.
And now, Messrs. Editors, in conclusion permit me
to say that this simple fact, occurring as it does out¬
side and independently of all the known laws of
Nature, is not only potent in its defiance of those
maligners of physical mediums who call themselves
Spiritualists, but it appeals with direct and irresistible
power to every phase of scepticism but two ; the one
being based upon hopeless imbecility, and the other
the result of invincible hostility, and with neither
condition do I desire to interfere ; my personal
efforts for the propagation of our Divine Philosophy
)
)
)
being directed only to those who have sufficient
intelligence to appreciate its value, or sufficient
candour to avow their convictions.
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 24,1867.
(Copy of an advertisement in the Baltimore Sun.)
A REMARKABLE PHENOMENON.
Simple in character, yet transcending all the
theories of all the scientific schools, it demonstrates
that a power wielded by an invisible, intelligent agent
or agents can expand and contract the hardest of all
our metals.
A solid iron ring, weighing fourteen ounces, and
measuring but fifteen inches on its inner circle, has
been placed around the neck of a young man whose
head measures twenty-two inches.
There is no possibility of fraud or deception, as
the “ ring ” is submitted to the closest inspection, both
before and while on the neck.
It may be witnessed, if conditions are favourable,
at the social meeting of the first Spiritualist congre¬
gation, to be held at Saratoga Hall, this (Wednesday)
evening. Doors open at seven o’clock; services com¬
mence at eight o’clock.
We, the undersigned, hereby testify that we have
attended the social meetings referred to in the above
advertisement, and that a “Solid Iron Ring,” seven
inches less in size than the young man’s head, was
actually and unmistakably placed around his neck.
There was, as the advertisement claims, no possibility
of fraud or deception, because the ring was freely
submitted to the examination of the audience, both
before and while on the neck of the young man.
Robert Y. Wilson,
John J. Kurtz,
E. L. Kurtz,
L. Z. Lyon,
Henry C. Lynch,
P. T. Eaton,
L. H. Hyzer,
Wm. Cooper,
Dr. J). Bruce,
John T. Rote,
Jacob Weaver,
J. H. Weaver,
Charles Held,
John M. Potts*
Levi Weaver,
Benj. McClellan,
C. W. GL Baughman,
O. L. Mathiot,
Uriah Jones,
Wm. Brooks,
A. Y. Foose,
John Frist,
Wm. Pridgeon,
James Frist,
Orlando G. White,
Z. S. Purringson,
John F. Edmonton,
Preston C. Weaver,
C. E. Dimmitt,
Robert Booth,
Francis H. Smith.
Mrs. Matheson, an occasional contributor to the columns of
tliis journal, and a much-esteemed personal friend of some of its
readers, died on the 6th of this month at Ardross Castle.
In February considerable additions will be made to The
Spiritualist Lihrartj, in the shape of rare and curious works on
apparitions. Spiritualism, and mesmerism.
On Monday evening next the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism will give a public reception to Mr. J. J. Morse,
the trance medium.
On New Year’s Eve the Marylebone Association of Spiritualists
will hold a midnight meeting to <c ring the Old Year out and the
New Year in.” .
A letter from Mr. Cranstoun in another column, also an
advertisement, set forth that Dr. Monck, the medium, is afflicted
with serious illness, and that contributions on his behalf are
requested by a committee. It is to be hoped much will be done
to relieve the suffering medium. For a long time Mr. Cranstoun
has acted as a good Samaritan in this case.
312
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 26, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late 'vVm. GreSOBT, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
. Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and af a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnjngs—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence. .'
pHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness ip Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses arid of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by'the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer-—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Oases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—^Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
• - Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—^Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, -fee.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—^Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen; with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis'—Cases—'Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary. " .
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office S3, British Museunhatreet, London,
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed ia:l-
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Soien/::, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium: investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin b7
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist o”
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear put the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena :—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such a§
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
\
Dec. 20, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Sipiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review-
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
T> ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
jL\i OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at''Me
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for 1 jd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
T> APHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN-
JLV O'ER AND EPHEMERlS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself. *
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
"ORITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIA
JD TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Groat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2pm to 9.3Q. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL | is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, $2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossoniere, Paris.
rglHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
.JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager ;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial Svo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
.VII.—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the tranoe-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. BUrke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay1 (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
, XXI.—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Mauf ice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed- Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow's Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker. •
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLlV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 38, British
Museum-street London, W.O
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown Svo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Coi responding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
ill
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Form,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations inEngland—^Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss C°ek, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief inj[
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine —De“t-
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm,
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Boss-Church, Miss Kisliugbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby,
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments!
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral .Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—■
Humboldt—Newman— Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—
. Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS EBDM THE INNER LIEE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VL The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of SigUrd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress G|enare — XVI
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIIL
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.O.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allah Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
T HE i SPJklTUA^ISa1.
Acciliital Iiidigestioii.
BEFOBE AND AFTEE, T.IJEE. ,
Cliri.stmas
. ;5r■ • DSE ;; ■
ENO’SFRUITSALT.
Every Ttayelling Tr^nK and Hou&^SSia l»World
'' ought, to contain a Buttle'of • ‘
3EN.(t t!
.Prepared fronj-Sonjid Bjco Ei^U, as » He.ali.li-giviioS'.
jjociliiig,, Sp'arkling^fin'^^Sj^riit'iD.? P.cvevatji? for any -.
li is the- iiest ^Pieyltiive'anit.Cljire -.for Eitiousap;*,
Sick ^Hc'adft^B^SlSif;' ErupMfiu.Sr Inipure ■ BJo.pd;
Fevers, Piniwlef! .on. the 'EapfiV/pd^.W^ssfv.E^vijgsk- :
. ••jifssvi\ienial'-©cpressi.onv.Wout'of Appeiitp. Sourness.'
.. of StomacH' Gonstipation^VCtniting, Thirst, &c,j and- ,
''to reteove'the' effects; of "rErrors in .'Eating and _
Drihkmg. ' - ' . •
T?NO’S FRUIT ^ALT.—From thA;
.J^Ljtev. •DRfc.jSgitBT, Vicar, of Collcrly :-r.“ I have
ojed^ouf JEruifSalirfSKman^years; and havo verified ..
jxf ’^statements, 'flu’ thanks of- the phhlicSfe-'dne; to,.
iag&qvf. unceasing effort^ to relieve rsulfennjp;;
humanity. ’ Long may you live to be a blessingio tbp*
.■world.”' ?... '■ .
QTIMULANTS;4ND;i^§UFm€IENT
Q. -AJIO.U-NT It'S^iXlEKeJSE Xi^uently- >'nE-'.
PAN^E the *xrvm i.-IStfCbS-,.- FRUXTv SALT, i0\
pecftliariy adapted;,'for'any"cbtfi;tijutibpaj v.'caknMSidf •
the liver. A - \yORLO of '\VOESAar A-V(t'TOEp■'by-,
those who KEES(and ■'OeE' BN©?s J'fitijL';SaJAT. - -''
“ All onr'custbhjei-s.'for'ENO'S^TtEIT^VLTVwoui.l J
not he without it uppn a-ny cpj^}^i’at'ibm>ffi®' hay iegf,,4''
.received"fio;much heheiit:from' it:’-'—WoOn 1BeothbSr^-'3
-Ohemists, Jersey, 1878. - j - ,*
U he Physical Paris of. LijCr^P,'ood ■ Food.
■ ■ How to epjoy; gpod food, that wouid"'6therwise;cause ;
biliouS headache, disordered stomach, poiSohgd blodd,
&c., &c., use ...
MO’S PRFIT SALT.
A NATURAL' c’p-ERIEN-t-.^-BNO’S *
■ r\ FED IT SAI)T,^hentaken with water,acts as
a natural apeficht, its bittiple,' but natural action',
removes all imputitihFt'thhs preserving and restoring
health. -If its great; y&ue in dteeping the'bddy in A
health were universally .known, no -family; would be~>
without.it." ■ 1V ■ ■ ■ •' -' :-t" 1 %
f: agged, .'k^maM;, .akd; :;^or^j
OUT !!! Any one. whpBe.iiuties i.recjuirp, tii.ew! ^
to undergo mental or unnatural;<^oitezncnt nr strains^; jl
ENOS FEUIT SALT is th.e'-hes'traihwn remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays NetvouC Excitement,- De- f*
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and ..
too rich food. Its power hu aiding digestion is moat-1
striking;- It also {restores: the Nervops System, tp; its
proper condition (by natural;- pieans): User- ENO'Sr-4
FEUIT SALT. Yotfcannofctjyerstate its*greafcvalue,
in keeping the blood pure andr-frep. fram'.dteeasei. ; r >
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—'‘ 14, Riie^e lai
. Paix, Paris.—Apentieman cailed itf yesterday. ‘
He is a cdnsfeit sufferer ffb'in'eHfpmc’:dyspepsia, and
has taken, all sorts of mineral-waters.' I recommended- -
him io^ifS'^b’tir Skit a'triat,whichh.e:did,andreceiyed
gre&.t bpiieflt. HC says he'- heYer knew tvhat it was to
be withbutipain until he tried: yenu-- Salt, and for the
faturC-.’shail.-never be without''it-in the house."—M. -
BeraU.v. - . ... . : ' ' "
BNO’S FRUIT SALT.^-“ After suffer-.
ving fohheafly-.tVo and' half years from severe
headache and disofdffl’ed stomach, and after trying-
almost^eVei^tBlngand'^jfeding much money without
finding any benefit, I wae recommended by a friend to
try iENQ’S 'FEUlT SALT. and'hefore I bad finished
1 ohefbottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and-nO-'w l am Tesiojred,,to my psusil health ; 'and others
t knoWvtbat bate tried ft hatefeofenjoyed such good
fiealtlrlSr, 'years.iVYeufs .most ^trtiiy, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Pest Office, Bkrrasford.”
“ quetESS m EIFE;-”-^A new in-
. IO' .Vention is.b'rought'befoie'llie piil.’lic and ccm-
:«iandsfiuo<fesfY A'score Of'aftbfej'naWe imitations are
■ Iminediately'm'frodticed'by the unscrupulous, who, in
copyipg''-ilie5I)iaginal clogely enough to deceive the
public, aSd'yet'not'so exactly as to infringe upoh legal
rights, exercise an,-ingenuity that, cmployecl in. an
original chaniVcl^could not fail, to> secure repnfation
and profit.—Adams. ' A ' i, ’
CApTWif-^-li&amine each bottle and teex the ■ capsule ist
•• incited u iiX-O’S FRUIT. ft ALT.-I Without, yoy/have
"been imposed ori byn n:oH.hless;‘ imitwtifonr -Hold - hy-all
Chenfiists. Price l2s. Qd. a?i(l is. Gd. -t
Prepared only by J. G. EN6’S PATENT,
t at-ENO-S FRUll1 SxiRT WORKS,:
Hatcham, London, S.E. - - •
CHHISTMAS : APPEAL T0
SPIRITUALISTS;
. The Committee formed to promote a Testimonial to
I fDr. Mpnfek commend his case as one eminentiy.claim-
dng Your’generosity-at this .time of the-yeat,'whengifts
jand benevolence are peculiarly apprdgr-iate.'-- -
' As one of the pioneers of our beliefs. he has ex-
jhended health and1 alibis resources in devotion to the
fCaiise. For nearly two years hdhas been cared for by
{kind friends, who have' thereby' earned the lasting
thanks of Spiritualists.; and- to 'enable EhAM.,to- return
{to the wnrk btiitso dear to him, ii is iVc'cessai y to shs-
ta-iuhim,for.tJ.iei winter., in-a warmer, climate.-, If. ajl
junjte hesfi-tily, there will.be no.^difficulty,c and;-the '
.Mastci’s'benciiiction-will be yours. .1 . -.
i .-‘.‘Inasmuch ;as* yAi.^id it toth^leagt'6L?thdee5-little
joneS{y:edidiL,un|roHe.”i, ^ u-'.'
: ;Sni;Ujest ;conf.riliutioDS;will be equally welcomed as .
! t hc-sc’. whose larger men ns enable th'epi .to give more'■
largeiy'Y Tii-SyghpnTd tie tient to the Hpnr. Secretary of
.b^^bjmnitte.e. jWlfes® names; t^eie ann'otinced injthe”:
I Spin'ifiam/f"of '28th NoVdinuer. 4.
‘ ^r: *' ” I^ORBfii'Theobald; - ‘
.fii, (franyille-parlc,- BlacU-hcath:. ',, / v'-
iMiif and Mrs.- Crahsfeun,piucern9 10 - () - 0 ;
4MfS. T^ndallrEdgbaiton   jlft 0 fe
William Tetiti,liifiq., Albert-road:,..,,.. 4 .5. ;5 0
- W. P. Adshead, Esq.,Belper ,..;.p... : 5’VS - 0
y-H.E.H. Prince G    ......j-s.,....,: - ;5.. 0;.
'Alexander Colder, Esq., 1, Hereford-squarc 5 0 0
F. G. S. for ditto .V.     .» ;2 , ,()V
Sir .Charles Isham, • Bart.   .... V- - 2 .2. QV
-Hensleigti "VVengwood, J.P..,...,   2 2 ' 0
{W. Pemberton Tsirner, Esq. ..VT   2 2. G
;Morel 1 ThF-obaUl,- Es-[.    V.. 2 2 0
' PSffilv^sq. I.AA.. .V.V.    .>t.... : 2 0^ 0
{J.- Swi’nburiicvEsq........  1 (K 0
vR»Capratlft|,«.^,LMh!>.  ;..f..-.... .- • 3 0
il\^fssV0§ugjas, SSAudley-str.eet.1.-.   1 0 0^
,Dr- Bfim’tfjN.o.rttia-mpton ;r.;.......-. . ... 0 Of
ij,.iElipmpBon<.NfiV'castle Qip, ,Q
W^’ifdsydr^if-.^IijEi.nn ey .V.. .V..0. 7 A
. "Esq1; Unt'nle’f « .V...,c. .b l -O
;A. Todd,'Esq;, Peebles  „.;...-.-;.../.s;.».j..-..- -1. O’ 0
R.-Gessler, Esq., Basle... ri.V. s0 0-
Dr. ^tdwell, Brighton  -.,1 ;1 rO ;
'Dr.'Jdhnsdh' Arablegide ....
•»>;.,   •"
«-o: 5 i ’0
price^Five ShillingSr- Grown Sv^.richl-y gilt,.'
i ; ' - .^UHE ' LAZY LAYS- -A '
1 - kfKD PROSE I MAG INI NGR.
* 'i ’ • by william h. Harrison; •
An-Elegant "and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical- and
.Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.-
■j ‘ Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
iPo.sjLGii&phififfiQurfcJdupnal, and some twenty or thirty
•i ttier'• slaadard journals.
“!'Pfie,giit' de|?ic,6, 6n the cover designed by Florence
} - S-' v:;-. ' ' " Glaxton and the Author.
| Newspaper Branch Office,.33, British,-.
^ukebmAtrdet,-London, W.C.
|| T'TE JGUR-NAL'DU MAGNETI^ME,’’
I J ■ pu'blished-eycaEy week under the, ediforship pi
.jJJbps. & Durville,;. -Subscription, Fi-auSeV poii>- free
12 francs’ a^ear, .Within .the .-postal.union, 14 francs.
Bhrtiau:- 77, Bue' Nenve des Petits Champs; Paris-,
France. ’* ; '' 5 ^
The ~ trap p et> m e d iu m •
. 0»,> THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by -Christian Reimers.—This brochure cqn-
taiiis a series bf illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X-.Y>Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,' in. ■
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena; It is an ’
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
! men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspap'er says -
• that the painphlet'displays real genius. -’Price 6d. ; .
post free, GJd. The Spiritualist Newspaper'.Branch
i Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,AV.G.- i ~ 1
T>RIGHTON.—'five-Spiritualist maj: -be
_D obtained in Brighton-of .Messrs..Beal, East-sireet-j,
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-stre’etj and Mr. Roughton, Si.
George’s-road. - V V . W -vri!. i -
* The J^Poughkcepsie~hkerP: ~ t-
The Physioiau. ' Vol.' I. ’.Gt; HstThtbriia V l.y f; ; .w:
The Teacbef. '•,;- j'Il,/ w . y mm'-r'.-u fep. . -.7- (!'■
The SceD A..-HI/ •* : i-!?:... V . « i-;»v,-7;'"i(5
VTlie :Reformer. IV. V '. '.'‘Y 6
a'lie.tliiixker. ' . V. , A;/ . V. 7 0
Magic sfeff. ,An Autobiography of A. J.. DaVls;..' ;7 Q
-Arabufa, or Jl’ivino GffC^t V 'f.V,,;V ;• ^7 0
Approaching1 Crls'fe ; or. Truth y.. Theology ; 5 ,0
Answeirs'to Fver-reeUrring Questions from the
■ People-- . . ... . .. ' :. ;.7 0
T-liililreii's Pi-.igrcssivo Lycciun' Manual V’.' . 2 0
.JDejtth^hdrihWAfter-Life ■ , . 3 6
'is'tbfy ahd Pliiii-s-iphy bf Evil.. . • . .. 3 6
iHartiinge'j Qf'Hoaith ' •'A;-1’ ^ A A ±”* «• | (>
.•HjmlfentaL Man V, fer,.Th-.nigiits for'llie AijV . 3. 6
the.Lim '5itft^5er'XMemqranTOl'.; -70
-jPhilpsffphYqGSn^Ciui^j^yideu'qe. . •• ...2 6
TreetThbugh'ts^CbRcerpingtReligibn . ;u r.^/ '*/, .8 T>
iPeifetralia/;;C’bntSiu:ing-vHarmpinalAnswerS ?■ .. 7:j0.
'Phffb^bpfiy bf Spfeijual lnterebursfe . ‘i • • 6, O'
;Tfiei'Inpbr'Life‘;; oivSpiH,t MystC'rit!s 'ejqpiainpd Y' 7 0
The Temiile—on' Disease of Brains a ud Nerves • 7. 0
;The Fountain, with lets'pi NeWMoknuigS :• - V V ’ S'; ;0
jTale of a Physician;,or, Seeds-'and'EriHts-pf'QriineS >0
’The Diakka and t-bcir Earthly'Victims . 2 r.
jConjugal Love,’Ri-uth v. Theology . A- V-O
Morning Lect res. V; . V: . . . - Z- 6
j The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,-33; British
Museum-street, Lbnd'ofa, W.O.
THIKBTRKBEOK BUILDING SOCIETY’S A-NNtTA'L
RECEIPTS ESCEEDiFOUR -MILLIONS.-
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
For two .guineas, per month, Ipf
immediate Possession- and 'no Rent tb pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIREBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE- A PLOT OF
. LAND FOB FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,"
'witll' immediate.' possession, either for Building or
Gqxjfening ..purposes,- Apply at tho-Office of the
‘BIREBECE;'FREEHOLD LAND. SOCIETY. .
A-«Pamphl6t, with. full. pprticulars, on application.
- • FRANCIS RAVENSCROFTi Manager -
; vSout'hamJitpfe-iUildings,.Cbancer-y-laHC.-
b‘Vr ’ ’ ESTABLISHED 1851.
T) I R K B E C K BAN K.-y^CuiTcnt
X) A'ccpmifs- opened aCcordtn'g.to the usual practice
Pf ■ other Bankers, and Intarest*allpwed on the -mini¬
mum'monthly balances. No Commission charged for
-keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
arid a half-per cent. repayabl.e-upqh;.demand. .
The Bank" undertakes for-rife.. Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables’; the cdllecjnbn of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; ap’d the purchase
arid sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters '0Jfr Creilit-ajtid Circular Notes^issued, for all
parts hf Europe arid elsewhere; r.
; A Pd>fnphl|tL'with frill paicfdcifiarSj. dp- appllcafeiori; •
. , . FRANCISrRAYE^SCROEr,-Manager.
SoUthaanpton-rbuilclnjgs,:(hiaricery-laaC;.' -V ’ >. *
' Pride Ssi '©iv8i>o. iPost-free;;. CloStiy-fed?edges.
' - TheiSeNv.-Bcfok u *-<5 S
: ■1 ‘^MVA’. i^XoN-J,*’ on ”
PSYGHOGRAPHYOR DIRECT
: ; SPlR^EiRWRlTING;
V;',, Illustra^ecL with Diagrams.
Y/iffN/ri'Wfwefij'riN^fe’^pape'r Branch Office 33, British
iS^uscSjiri-stjjee^, -Lbridori, W.C’.
CONTENTS.
December, 1879.] - -[Price Sixfi^ce. -
THE . PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,.
... A Monthly! Magazine! . . - -
r »’ '
Spiritualism in semfc'6f Vits^R'cb'giqUs; AripeelV;-; A
CPmparison and a- (c-iitfast;. M.-iV.'-lfOxpu 1—Bripeipa.l,
Tulloeh on TaMe-rnp]'i.iig :' Dr, Nii.-lK-ls Voices-fre-in
the Ages; tl;e Aichcriusfe“ ahd IWi’Mepchings;"
Davidfpn—Phjlosdphfpal Sbj$itpriliFmV. G.l^-Tapp-^^
ThC'Pocassei Traged'yr J. W. F.—A‘C'a'HibH^Faith; ,2'
LONDON: B. Wi Allhn,.11; Ave .Maria-laue.t! <»;1)
GLASGOW - H-AY NiSBE’ri A CO;, 52; pQpewpi'k-lane.;
pf .Tlid^.Sffirit-WofldU:. Dv. Rugenie Cfowcir^-Ne'w
| G ^pqS-A.n.. vp.-kf^w Y.......-r........A■•■‘■•v•
; Am-IutereAurig Cirbuffllitairice..Sn 'the. Life of Baron
; ^ytm -GitHlCuA.tJ.ilitic-.., Related by UimselfI
j mood Wi i ting.i By’F- Aruncl ale....;V..
i ProliVssoiv-i-Zi-'iliTer’s- New- Voluriie of “ Scientific
T-rearisos ■" ::.. .w«; .. ■!-. V....
Oqri'Cfepflriden&KDr. Mcfeck-’Ytjw. d.r. &.... .. ...-I
New Book on Spiritualisni.....•
Can the Use of Aniestheties Driihpnsti'ale.lho. .Ex-:.
' Isteface oT’ ilio Soiii;?. ByGeoVgo Wyld, M-p;,
Edirfetirgh -.riv..*,),,,ri;..  <a.-
Personal -ObseyratioiiB.'. By ;Gustuv ThCodOfe
Fechner '-..<»'..Vuw-Ls■■-■■I--• • -•
Spiritual ManifrisVatiqris. jn Public;—A.Ooptinuous
. Iiori.Riug l-lire a do (I-,;.-.'oil ..the / NckSIc of. the.
Medirim—A R ein arkahie ..Phenpin enon-...
l-ravngraph: —; PopularStipei-stitions in West
• Sririfersetfc,i...0'.V.«i.,i,t..«;..sY.Ak.t....i.;..v....
:ok
304
306‘
30(5
306
sMf
307
308
80?)'
306:
^ Printed for {the .Proprietor .by" BKVJiijjp'djjAri.d Co.
! • at; the .llol.bqrri: Printing-Works, Fullwood's- Rents ,
! • High IJolborb, ip the-parish,bJ St., Anjdvew-above-,
Bar . arid Sl.'VGeoi-ge 'the. Mqrty-r, Lon lap, a qd, pub--
} i.iisiie'd by.' E, W- A-hUfiN-f Ave MariaUapeVLqndyu- r
■i -’EiG ■
