Registered as a Newspaper,
joU^KSi< ^^YdSo^oG^id®^ ^di^Kcisi.
#lb^st j|f| in <&xmt §nlain,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularity on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010', Seventh-street, f
No. 278.—(VOL. XI.-No. 25.) LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments.
Direct Writing without Visible Agency. By Epes Sar¬
gent       ...    289
Clairvoyance and Somnambulism. By Eugene Crowell,
M.D.   ...     290
Houdin's Relationship to Psychological Phenomena:—
Another Honest Conjuror   290
Spiritualism without Spirits, By William White, Author
of The Life of Swedenborg   ... 292
Spirit Identity..'. ... ...' ... ...  ... 292
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Seances
for Inquirers .;.     .'. 293
The Crookes-Pay Correspondence. By Epes Sargent:—
Explanatory Letter from William Crookes  ... 293
Dr. Slade in Berlin:—Certificate of the Court Conjuror
that the Phenomena are Genuine—An Honest Con¬
juror    294
A Lecture on Spiritualism ... ... ... ... ...  295
The Famished Heart. (Poetry.)   ... .., 295
“ Palmistry or Otherwise ” 296
Correspondence:—Slate-Writing in Greek—The Views of
the Theosophists—Spiritualism in Cape Town—Spiri¬
tualism and Conjurors—Faith—The “ Spirit of the
Medium ” Theory—What Truth is there in Astrology ?
—Form Manifestations...     ...  296
A Presentiment Fulfilled 299
The Dream of St. Theresa. (Poetry.)    299
Items of Spiritualistic News from Liverpool  300
Answers to Correspondents   300
Paragraphs:—To Correspondents, 299; Professor Blackie
on Gloomy Religion      300
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869,
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgehstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;vHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dpugall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. Hi D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury: Miss A Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places:—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille; Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Gorso. Naples: BrHsh Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Peeth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
?Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
'O EICHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
JL\l late William Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E. 455 pp.,
demy' 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for December, 1877.
Friday, 14f/t.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ . „ Committee's Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 18<7i.—Trance Address, at 8 p.m. Mr. W. J.
Colville.
Wednesday, l$th.—Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, list.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, 28th.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of the Association will be closed from December
24th to December 26 th, inclusive.
MR. COLVILLE’S ADDRESSES.
Mr. Colville’s Meetings, which have been changed from
Saturday afternoons to Tuesday evenings, at 8 o’clock, are
free to members and friends.
THE LIBRARY.
The sum of £5 has been subscribed by Mr. Peterson towards
a fund for purchasing additional books for the Library, on
condition of a to’al of £30 being raised. Friends are in¬
vited to give their kind ass’stince in this matter.
 E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its objeot
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary
Willesden, N.W.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE SOUL, AND HOW IT FOUND ME ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,,
cfe., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER’S pamphlet
on Curative Mesmerism, price 6d.; also a pamphlet on
Clairvoyance, price 4d. To be had from the author, 10,
Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
mHE OLDHAM PSYCHOLOGICAL
X SOCIETY intend holding their FIFTH ANNUAL TEA
PARTY AND ENTERTAINMENT on Christmas Day,
December 25, 1877, in the Temperance Hall, Horsedge-street,
Oldham. Tea on tables at four o’clock p.m. Tickets 9d.
each ; children under twelve years, 6d. each. Admission,
after tea, 3d. each. The Entertainment will consist of songs,
glees, readings, recitations, pianoforte duets, &c., aided by Mr.
J. Hall, the well-known concertina player. Tickets may be
had from Thos. Kershaw, 8, High-street; J. Mills, butcher,
Union-street; or from any of the committee. 
LANGHAMHALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London. W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjects chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved, Is. 
NEW AND ELEGANT GIFT-BOOKS FOR THE SEASON.
RIFTS IN THE VEIL.
A collection of poems and of prose essays by Spiritualists,
and of inspirational communications through mediums.
Crown 8vo. Richly gilt. Will he published in time for pre¬
sentation as a New Year’s gift-book. Price five shillings.
THE LAZY LAYS.
Widely recognised by the press, including the Morning
Post, Graphic, and Court Journal, as one of the most elegant
and amusing gift-books of the season. Just published. Crown
8vo. Richly gilt. Price 7s. 6d.
In order to put many copies of the latter book into circula¬
tion rapidly, and in order to furnish Spiritualists with two
good new gift-books at moderate rates, the above books will
be supplied at 10s. 6d. the two, post free, to all who order both
before Rifts in the Veil is published. The Lazy Lays will
then he forwarded immediately on receipt of the order and
remittance, and will serve as a Christmas gift-book, whilst
Rifts in the Veil will follow, in time for New Year's day.
After the publication of Rifts in the Veil, The Lazy Lays
will be obtainable only at 7s. 6d., its present price also when
purchased singly.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.^
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C, -
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd. j or six copies post free
for 6d.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6ii., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS1
Is a self-inking one andean easily be wbfked by a child:
of ten. Kk** , ' Hrg • *
Its Simplicity is its recommendation. -<
You will find it a great source of interest, and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories,'from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co ;
Show Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, ‘‘HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of- printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.;
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK - BANK. —Established 1851. —
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O!
DEPOSITS received'&t INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand.. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. : Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular-Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills "of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
. A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS BAYENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 21, 1877.
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.\Y.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, ParkfleM, Didsbury, Maricbester'.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Qerald, Mrs.,19,'Cambridse-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Oerald, Desmond G., H.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Ilonywood, Mrs., 52, Warwiek-square, SvW.
Jimcken, TTenry D., M.E.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. 0., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Itogers, E. Dawson, Kose-villa, Chnrch-end, Finchley,N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa. CairnS-rd..New:Wandswortb. S-W.
Ashton. E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
I Bennett. Edward T., The Mansion, Kichmond Hill,
Blimey, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malapar,” Portsmouth.
Crosl'anfl, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H-. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W. ,
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
firepn, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter's-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, 'S.E..
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart.,Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Xvimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould. Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, M rs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Straw bridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardehs, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Re.lcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, StT George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen.R. Pomeroy, 40,'Claverton-street. Pimlico, SW.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Oaveudish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. IT., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss XL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal], TI., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Caldcr, Esq., 1, Hereford-squaro, South Kensington, S.W.
J, E. Andre, Esq.
Auditors.
H. Cook,|£Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Moroll Theobald, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha aBahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
fhe Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veb, Bischofisberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V.. Richmond, New York. U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, TVimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Pert}', Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. Wr. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
It. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, CUnton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson,Eso.,M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes;Esq., 33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M, de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Pfesideftt de FUnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D.,.Union Springs, CdyugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, .Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Glouccster-place,Dorset-square,
London-N.W.
Captain R. F. Buxton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. ltichrEsq., 9, MontgomeryTplace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Horiore, Paris.
W, S-. Godbe,- Esq.ySalt Lake.City,.IItah, U.S..A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Bhda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, ESff.,.95 Montgomery-place,Bpston, U.S.A.
Mrs. IIallock.Sl, Denbigh-strect, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-stfeet, Be’grave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chlaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. Hi Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet. Rue Tariger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq * 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue deLouvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E.. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senbr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. L The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., -England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties pressnted.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
A STROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
XjL Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. Pearce, author
of the Weather Guide - Book, &c. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent p"st free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily Understood idea of what it really is; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerableability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historieal, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject ; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLAl logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Soci&ti
Anonyme,7, Rue do Lille, Paris, Post-Office orders payable
to M, Leymarie,
MR. C, E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At. home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
Test medium and clairvoyant,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint-
ment. Nervons diseases a specialty.  
SPIRITUAL HEALING OF DISEASE,
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, W.O.,
AND
141, CAMBRIDGE STREET, PIMLICO, S.W.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment by letter, which will receive prompt
attention. Curative appliances sent to those residing at a
distance on application.
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON
 S.W.  
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLA;CE. RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Pours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms ; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.
MADAME LLANCOR1S,
At home from 11 till 4, for Music, Trance, Clairvoyance, and
Automatic Writing.
25, GUILFORD STREET, RUSSELL SQUARE.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honore,
Paris.
T71 W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
_B--J • engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)..
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.C.
ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
"RS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
. ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &c., &c. Post free, 7d, ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, Ss. London: J. E. Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit--
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.C.
TAKEN IN EXCHANGE, on Wednesday,
evening, December 5, at the Soiree of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, a gentleman’s hat, new,
with deep mourning hand, and marked with a monogram
inside; maker, Truefitt. If the same is brought to 38, Great
Russell-street, the hat left in its place will he given in
exchange.
VotujviE Eleven. Number Twejmty-five.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 21st, 1877.
DIRECT WRITING- WITHOUT VISIBLE AGENCY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
The phenomenon of direct writing without visible agency j j
is becoming quite common, and any person seriously in j j
earnest may satisfy himself of it by taking some trouble ! ]
in the way of investigation. The volume in French, from j J
the pen of Baron Giildenstubbe on the subject of Direct i ]
Writing, published some fifteen years ago, must be familiar 11
to some of the older Spiritualists in London; and his |;
visit to England is doubtless remembered by many. His j
death was a serious loss to the cause of Spiritualism, for |
he was not only a man of high culture and a theologian j;
well versed in the ancient languages, but he was a remark- j
able medium, and could testify, from personal experience j
and from the phenomena in his presence, to the fact of j
spirit interposition in their production.
Encountering the Rev. William Mountford the other
day, I entered into conversation with him in regard to the j
slate-writing phenomenon, and he mentioned some facts in j
his own experience confirming the abundant testimony we |
now have on the subject. Mr. Mountford, let me say, is !
an English gentleman, who has been a resident of Boston, !
U.S.A., some thirty years. He was at one time settled |
over a Unitarian congregation in Manchester, England, |
and is the author of a work of great power and beauty,
religious but not doctrinal in its character, first published |
in London, and entitled Euthanasy. It has passed through j
several editions in this country, the last quite a recent one. j
He has also published here a work on Miracles and the i
Miraculous, in which Spiritualism is defended against the j
attacks of the savants and the clergy with profound ability j
and in a thoughtful, earnest spirit, as rare as it is fresh
and engaging.
I requested Mr. Mountford to write out his experiences
in “ Direct Writing”—the Baron Giildenstubbe being the j
medium on one occasion, and, on another, Charles Col- j
Chester, a young English medium, who died young, and j
whose wonderful powers I myself tested on several occa- ;•
sions. Mr. Mountford, as you will see from the subjoined
letter, has kindly complied with my request; and I sub- |
mit his communication, as well fitted to interest all sincere
inquirers into the extraordinary phenomenon, now claiming
so much attention :—-
Boston, Nov. 28, 1877.
My dear Mr. Sargent,—Wliat you -wish. I will do, though I fear it
will not be of much use, because for testimony to be successful it must
not only be good in itself, but be fortunate in having fair-minded readers.
However, as to “ direct writing,” I will tell you of what I know by my
personal experience. It is not, however, the greatest phenomenon
which I have witnessed in connection with Spiritualism.
In Paris, amidst circumstances too tedious for reading as to caution, j
and as to details in respect to carefulness against imposture, I obtained j
through the Baron Guldenstubbe a proof of the reality of spirit-writing. |
It was effected in the Rue Faubourg St. Honore, in my own apart- |
ments which he had never entered before, and in a parlour which he had
never even seen, and which nobody could have entered except by press- j
ing against my chair, in a dining-room brilliantly- lighted. It was
given on a sheet of white paper placed by myself in the parlour, for the
experiment.
It was that phenomenon which decided my judgment as to there
being disembodied intercourse between our planet and some sphere of j
spirit, although previously I had had ten times as much evidence as j
ought to have satisfied me. But all the time before I had been like an j
explorer on a dim, doubtful path; whereas, now, on looking back, I
recognised the certainty of what I shrank from acknowledging, not so
much because of its doubtfulness as because of its magnitude of signifi- I
cance.
But also, through my friend the Baron, that evening of his visit, there
was given a spiritual manifestation, such as I had never heard of before, I,
and never have known of since. We were standing about a table,
from which we, five of us, had just risen because of its being eleven
o’clock, when the Baron said to me, “ On the table beat time to any
tune you think of, or make any kind of rapping you please.” I did so
several times, and immediately on my ceasing to rap there came from
the top of the table an exact reproduction of the sounds which I had
made.
“ But did not the medium himself rap on the table ? ” No, he did
not, and he could not have done so if he had wished. “ But did he not
have some machinery attached to the table, and which he played upon,
in his pocket ? ” That question is surely its own answer when it is un¬
derstood. Machinery in the pocket, and played upon there to the pur¬
pose which I have stated! That would have been something more
wonderful than was even the electric telegraph on its first exhibition.
Then the Baron said to me, “ Write something on the table, so as to
make it sound; write a sentence, so that it be not very long; write
anything, and then listen.”
And then I made perhaps a dozen experiments; and no bank clerk,
or other expert, could swear as to hand-writing more confidently, than
I would make oath, as to the exact similarity between the sounds which
I made with writing, and their repetitions from the table, after a
momentary pause on my finishing. The underlining of words, as to
sound, and as to that also commas and full-stops, up-stroke and down-
stroke, crossing of letters and dotting, and any accidental momentary
pause in writing—all, all reproduced with the exactness of photography
against a landscape, or against Westminster Abbey!
And many times, through two other mediums beside the Baron
Gulden-Stubbe, there has been vouchsafed to me writing from hands not
“ of the earth, earthy.”
I will describe an instance of it. And let it be borne in mind that
the medium was in every way as completely a stranger to me and my
concerns and connections as though he had been born at Rome and
lived with Julius Caesar. I had had many curious, signs and wonders
through him when, as I was going away, he stopped at a simple un¬
covered table in the middle of the room, and in mid-daylight. Then
he stood still as he spoke, and never varied from his standing position
at one side of the table. He said, “ Take a clean card, and put it under
the table,” and I placed one on the floor against my feet. Then we
joined hands across the table, and then he asked me to think of some
person, whom I had known well, and who had known of me.
Standing so at the table, I thought silently of one and another and
another, while trying to recollect some uncommon name. In a little
while I said that I had got a name in my mind. And, as quickly as he
could speak, he said, “ It is done; take up the card.” * I stooped down,
and took up the card, which lay just as I had placed it, and on it was
written the name which I had thought of—Michael Shipman—and, to
the best of my recollection, it seemed to be even his handwriting.
As to what precedes I have written in all honesty, and with faculties
for observation and expression not trained indeed in any scientific
school, but by methods which are not likely ever to become obsolete.
It has been said that only scientific training can qualify a man for
judging the phenomena of Spiritualism. It might as well be said,
and with less arrogance, perhaps, that only theological training can do it.
And then the insolent way in which it is proposed as to credibility to
limit the sphere of inquiry to regions, of which it is assumed that
natural science is the door-keeper, and has already said its last, positive
word 1 As to that, let it be observed that not only was Sir Isaac
Newton an astronomer, and something more scientifically, but that he
was also a student in divinity, and profoundly in earnest. And there¬
fore, presumably, he was a man who believed that 1‘ there are more
things ’twixt heaven and earth than are dreamed of ” in the philosophy
of some few scientists, or in that of a more numerous body, who are
always to be heard mocking, according as the wind blows, by the vane
cn the church-steeple.
Scientific training is not necessary for observing well and reporting
credibly as to whether or not a table tips on the floor, or jumps up
to the ceiling, so to say, of itself; nor yet as to whether it can yield in¬
telligent raps without any human agency discoverable. As well might
it be said that Haydn and Mozart were not trustworthy as to music,
because they knew" nothing as to the tympanum of the ear, or the laws of
sound, nor had ever been certified by an aurist! And as well, too,
might a man be ignored as an eye-witness, for not knowing how to make
use of his eyes, because of his not having been trained as an oculist!
It is a queer, novel priesthood, as to the use of the senses, which has
been thus proposed, as to the simpler phenomena of Spiritualism. But,
than the persons thus suggesting, surely the Red Indians, with their
open-air training, would be far better qualified, as to acuteness and
reliability.
There are some persons who cry out as to Spiritualism, that it is much
ado about nothing, and not worth thinking of. Nor yet (in the way
which is theirs now) was the new notion of Harvey as to the circulation
of the blood worth thinking of: nor yet was the discovery of gravitation,
which soon became the key to the stellar heavens.
And then it is to be remembered how it was with the Scribes and
Pharisees, in Palestine, when “Jesus went about all the cities and
* Charles Colchester, well-known to me, was the medium (Mr. Mountford informs me)
through whom this remarkable manifestation of psychic or spirit power took place.—E. S.
290
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Dec. 21, 1877.
villages, teaching in their synagogues.” And babbler was what St.
Paul was called by “ certain philosophers ” just before getting his great
and famous hearing on the hill of Mars, at Athens. Always, according
to history, there is a struggle whenever new light begins to shine through
the mysteries of the past, and make them port-holes for observation as -
to new and widening truths.
Every atom, for aught we know, may be a fountain-head of causes,
and every spoken word may reverberate for ages; and there should,
therefore, be no haste in pronouncing against one another, and especially
because, as to many things now in controversy, even time of itself will,
in no long while, decide, William Mountford.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston.
CLAIRVOYANCE AND SOMNAMBULISM.*
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
Petetin says of a somnambulist observed by him : “ If
any one formed a thought without manifesting it in words,
the patient immediately knew it, and anticipated by her
actions the orders of those who had charge of her, as if the
determination had come from herself.” De Puysegur,
speaking of a peasant whom he had mesmerised, says: “I
have no occasion to speak to him; I think in his presence,
he understands and answers me,” and a very amusing
account of the consequences arising from the exercise of
this faculty is given by Eev. C. H. Townsend, in his Facts
in Animal Magnetism, p. 445, upon the authority of Dr.
Bertrand, who knew all the parties concerned.
“ A little girl,” he says, “ of about ten years of age fell
into a singular state of abnormal sensibility. In her fits
of auto-mesmerism she alarmed her family by proclaiming
aloud to them all the subjects of their thoughts. She
would say to her sister: ‘ You are now meditating whether
you should or should not go to such a place, to meet such
a person. I advise you to stay quietly at home; ’ or to
her mother : ‘ Do not ponder why papa stays out so late;
it will do you no good.’ These revelations were at times
not a little awkward and mal-apropos, and so the poor little
girl was not thanked for her discernment, but voted to be
under the influence of a deluding and wicked spirit. For
the purpose of exercising this familiar, so much more
malevolent than that of Socrates, the young patient was
committed to the care of a pious community of nuns, with
directions that much prayer and holy water should be spent
upon her; but in the convent matters went on much
worse. The holy water threw the patient into convulsions,
and (still more horrible) whenever a metal cross was laid
on her breast she threw the precious ensign of redemption
from her with symptons of the greatest aversion. The
pious sisterhood, though not aware of the fact that the
touch of metal powerfully influences persons in certain
states of sensibility, happened, however, to exchange the
metal cross for one of wood, which having been blessed by
the pope was supposed to be of peculiar efficacy, and lo !
in proof of that efficacy the little girl allowed the relic to
remain quietly on her breast. This was a most favourable
omen; but alas ! the evil spirit was not to be thus tamed—
the great, the terrible symptom of diabolic agency broke out
in fresh vigour, for the patient began to proclaim the
thoughts of those around her. When irritated by the
kind but mistaken officiousness of the nuns, she was
especially formidable in that way—so formidable indeed
that at length she completely controlled and governed the
saintly community. * Sister Agatha/ she would exclaim,
* you had better not bring that cross here, or 111 tell why
it was you nailed your ear so close to the keyhole of the
abbess’ parlour.’ | Sister Ursula, do not force me to say
anymore paternosters, or all the world shall know what
you were thinking of in your cell last Tuesday.’ ”
Dr. Kerner says of the Seeress of Prevorst, who for weeks
at a time existed in the somnambulic state, that “ she fre¬
quently had no feeling or consciousness of existence, except
in the pit of her stomach. She seemed to herself as if she
had neither head, hands, nor feet; at these times she per¬
ceived everything with closed eyes, but she could not tell
whether she saw the objects or felt them. If I, by passes,
made her lift her eyelids/she saw nothing but me; her |
pupils were immovable, but she could not tell whether she I
saw or felt me.”
Bev. Chauncey Hare Townshend> a minister of the j
|; Church of England, whilst temporarily residing in Antwerp,
|i in 1886, was told by a friend of some extraordinary results
I of mesmerism, and he was induced to witness some of its
| phenomena. These were of such a character as to enlist
| him in their investigation, which he steadily pursued for
I some years with such admirable sense and judgment, that
| not only is the record of his experiments and tests exceed-
| ingly interesting, but his views regarding mesmerism are
| deserving of the greatest attention. He was fortunate in
| being able to engage the assistance of a number of re-
| markably lucid subjects, among them a youth, whom he
| designates by the initials E. A., and of this person he thus
| speaks on page 235 of his Facts in Mesmerism, American
II edition :—
| “Having filled a couple of china eye-glasses with wad-
| ding, I, or some other person, held them firmly to the
p patient’s closed eyes when in sleepwaking. This also
j made no difference in his visual perceptions. When the
k same eye-glasses have been applied without the wadding,
I notwithstanding their perfect opacity, the patient has de-
| dared that he could see the light very plainly through
j them, and that they were so transparent that he could not
j! conceive why we imagined they should prevent him from
I seeing.
j; “I have tried various methods of bandaging the patient’s
!eyes; I have tied a broad and thick silk handkerchief over
them, and then I have held down with my fingers or the
palms of my hands the whole of the bottom part of the
bandage. This method seems to me as perfect as any. It
did not at all impede the sleepwaker’s vision. In addition
to this (the same result always ensuing), I have laid strips of
wadding over the eyes before applying the handkerchief, and
I have firmly secured every possible interstice between it and
the cheek with cotton. In the presence of Dr. Foissac
strips of diachylum were added to all the above apparatus,
in order to fasten down the edges of the handkerchief to
the cheek, but the sleepwaker saw as well as ever. On
several occasions I bandaged his eyes, adding the cotton
and the wadding before beginning to mesmerise him, when
he has assured me that he could not distinguish day from
night. Then, having passed into sleepwaking, he has
! immediately given proofs of perfect vision, quite as per-
I feet indeed as that enjoyed by persons whose eyes are open
and unbound. Again, on awaking (the bandage never
having been stirred during the whole period of his sleep¬
waking) he has found himself in perfect darkness. The
transition was marked. One moment, drawn by the strong
attraction of my presence, he was following me about the
room, through intricacies of chairs and tables, with perfect
ease, the next he was standing helpless, not caring to be
near me, and if called upon unable to move except with the
groping hesitation of a blindfold person. . . . The striking
proofs of vision that the patient gave, when properly
bandaged, were that he read in books, and distinguished
cards, their colours, suit, &c,, often playing with me at
various games upon them. I remarked that in sleepwaking
he was quite adroit at the game of cassino, which I had
almost vainly tried to teach him in the waking state. It
will be allowed that for a person, even bandaged in a
slovenly manner, to perceive at a glance the combinations
on the board would be no easy matter, yet this he did
with rapidity, completely bandaged as he was.
“ I threw over the patient’s head two thick and large
towels, which covered him in front down to the hips.
Through these he has read, holding the book at an angle
with his forehead, and has distinguished cards with per¬
fect accuracy. This kind of experiment was occasionally
varied. Sometimes the sleepwaker has been bandaged,
and in addition to this a towel has been thrown over his
head, but the result was equally satisfactory. This power,
however, seemed to have its limits. The addition of a
third towel greatly impeded the patient’s vision, yet even
thus he has distinguished cards. On one occasion a visitor,
instead of covering up the patient’s eyes, enveloped the
object to be seen in the folds of a napkin. The experimenter,
in order, if possible to mislead myself, the sleepwaker, and
all who were present, gave us to understand that he had
placed one card only in the napkin (he had performed the
operation with his hack turned), hut the patient was not
* Extracted from Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modem Spiritualism, Vol II.
Deo. 21, 1877. THE SEIEITUALIST. 291
to be deceived. At first, indeed, be seemed puzzled, but
even this transient perplexity elicited a curious proof that
he saw, not only through the triple folds of the napkin,
but through the back of one of the cards, He said : ‘There
seems to me to be a five, but the points are not of the
same colours.’ ‘ Oh,’ he exclaimed, after a pause; ‘ how
could I be so stupid, there are two cards. One is the ace
of hearts, the other the four of clubs.’ He was perfectly
right. The four of clubs had its face uppermost, the ace
was laid under it, and in order to form a five the sleep-
waker must have seen the ace underneath the other card.”
Dr. J. G. Millingen, author of Curiosities of Medical
Experience, although holding the prevalent materialistic
views touching the spiritual nature of man, is compelled
to admit the force of the testimony establishing the power
of certain mesmeric somnambulists to see without the aid
of eyes. On page 69 of his work he says : “ The faculty
of seeing through the closed eyelids was fully substantiated
in the presence of a commission of investigation appointed
by the Academy of Medicine of Paris, and in the presence
of fifteen persons. They found a somnambulist of the
name of Paul, to all appearance fast asleep. On being
requested to rise and approach the window, he complied
immediately. His eyes were then covered in such a
manner as not to awaken him, and a pack of cards having
been shuffled by several persons, he recognised them with¬
out the slightest hesitation. Watches were then shown
him, and he named the hour and minute, though the hands
were repeatedly altered. A book was then presented to him,
it happened to be a collection of operas, and he read Cantor
et Pollux, instead of Castor et Pollux, Tragedie Lyrique. A
volume of Horace was then submitted to him, but not know-
ingLatinhe returned it, saying: ‘This is some church-book.’
The celebrated Dr. Broussais laid before the same somnam¬
bulist a letter he had drawn from, his pocket; to his utter
surprise he read the first lines. The doctor then wrote a
few words on a piece of paper in very small characters,
which the somnambulist also read with the utmost facility;
but what was still more singular, when letters or books were
applied to his breast, or between the shoulders, he also perused
them with equal accuracy and ease. In one instance the
queen of clubs was presented to his back; after a moment’s
hesitation he said: ‘ This is a club—the nine.’ He was in¬
formed that he was in error, when he recovered himself and
said: ‘ No, ’tis the queen.’ A ten of spades was then
applied, when he hastily exclaimed: ‘ At any rate this is
not a court card; it is—the fen of spades.’
u The many astute tricks played by mesmerists, and
frequently detected, naturally induced most persons to doubt
the veracity of these experiments ; but when we find that
they were witnessed by seventy-eight medical men, most of
them decidedly hostile to magnetism, and sixty-three
intelligent individuals not belonging to the profession, and
in every respect disinterested, what are we to say—perhaps
exclaim with Hamlet:
“ ‘ There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.’ ”
Dr. Carpenter, another writer as thoroughly imbued with
materialistic views as Dr. Millingen, and an eminent
authority in our day, testifies to similar phenomena which
came under his own observation. In his Principles of
Human Physiology, p. 646, he thus writes :
“ The author has repeatedly seen Mr. Braid’s hypnotised
subjects write with the most perfect regularity when an
opaque screen was interposed between their eyes and the
paper, the lines being equi-distant and parallel, and it is not
uncommon for the writer to carry back his pencil or pen to
dot an i, or cross a t, or make some other correction in a
letter or word. Mr. JB. had one patient who would go back
and correct with accuracy the writing on a whole sheet of
note-paper ; but if the paper was moved from the position
it had previously occupied on the table, all the corrections
were on the wrong points of the paper as regarded the actual
place of the writing, though on the right points as regarded
its previous place. Sometimes, however, he would take a
fresh departure, by feeling for the upper left-hand corner of
the paper, and all his corrections were then made in the right
position, notwithstanding the displacement of the paper.”
Augusta Muller, of Stuttgardt, a somnambulist, “saw
I perfectly well, and recognised all persons and objects, in the
(I greatest darkness;” and Kieser, in his “Archives,” gives
II an account of a mesmeric subject, a boy by the name of
!| Arst, who could read by applying the book to his toes, even
| when his feet were covered with woollen socks, and he could
I see with the tips of his fingers.
IHOTJDIN’S KELATIONSHIP TO PSYCHOLOGICAL
PHENOMENA.
ANOTHER HONEST CONJUROR.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago) of December 1st, says•
Some twenty-three or four years ago Professor J. E. De Mirville, in
calling the attention of the French Academy of Moral and Political
Science to the subject of Clairvoyance, relating facts, was met with—
“ Robert Houdin does as much ; ” the savants, mentioning some of his
numerous feats, then demanded, “ What more could you ask, and what
else do you show us ? ”
At the request of M. De Mirville, Houdin accompanied him to the
rooms of the then celebrated Alexis, and had a sitting with him. After
passing into the trance his eyes and face, except his mouth, were
covered with cotton padding, which Houdin carefully put on and bound
in place with two large silk handkerchiefs, and yet he could distinctly
read folded papers he had not seen, and could tell the denomination of
any card which Houdin would deakfrom a new pack he had brought
himself unopened into the room—and that, too, when the face was
down and Houdin himself did not know what card he had dealt. He
also told Madame Houdin the day and hour of the death of her son ;
also where he died, and the cause of his death. He then told the father
the age of a son about whom he was much worried on account of a
peculiar spot on the side of the eye, and assured him that, notwith¬
standing the doctors had given discouraging opinions in regard to it,
the boy would outgrow it. At the conclusion, Houdin exclaimed, “It
is overwhelming ! it is enough. Let us go.”
The next day R, Houdin put his signature to the following decla¬
ration :—
“ Though I am quite far from accepting the encomiums that M. De
Mirville would bestow upon me, and wish to be understood, above all,
that I do not commit myself in favour or against clairvoyance, T cannot,
however, help declaring that the facts reported above are given with the
most complete exactitude, and that the more I reflect, the more it is
impossible to rank them among those which are the subjects of my art
and profession. “ Robert Houdin.”
Fifteen days later we received, in addition, the following letter :—
“Sir,—As I have had the honour to inform you, I have been
favoured with a second seancepX Marcellet’s room. Yesterday’s was
even more wonderful than the former one, and leaves no longer in my
mind the least doubt as to the lucidity of Alexis. I attended this last
| seance with the design to notice more closely the game at cards, which
had so astonished me. I took, this time, much greater precaution than
| before; for, distrusting myself, I chose a friend to accompany me,
whose calm character could observe coolly, and establish a sort of
| equilibrium in my judgment.
“ Here is what transpired : and it will be evident that subtleties
never could have produced effects such as I am about to cite. I broke
| the seal of a pack of cards brought by myself, and of which I had
j marked the envelope, that they might not possibly be changed.
Having shuffled, I proceeded to deal them with all the circumspection
of a man accustomed to the finenesses of his art. Ineffectual pre-
j caution ! Alexis stopped me, designating one of the cards that I was
I about to place before him on the table■
| “ ‘ I have the king,’ said he.
ii ‘ But you know nothing about it yet; for the^deal is not made.’
] “ ‘You will see,’ he replied; ‘ go on.’
I “ Indeed, I dealt to myself the eight of diamonds, and his was the
| king of diamonds. The game was continued in a singular manner;
| for he told the plays I was about to make, notwithstanding I hid my
I cards under the table and covered them with my hands. He returned
! my play without looking at his cards, and in all cases they proved to be
I the precise ones called for by my lead.
1 “I returned from the seance filled with wonder and astonishment, and
j persuaded that it is utterly impossible that chance or shill could ever pro-
dace effects soTmarvellous,—Receive, sir, &c,, Robert Houdin.”
I D. A. Eddy, of Cleveland, 0., writes:—“ When Edwin Forrest, the
| great tragedian, was in Paris, he made the acquaintance of Houdin,
| who related this affair with Alexis and other similar seances. This in¬
duced Forrest to investigate, who also became convinced of the truth of
Spiritualism. I had this from his own lips the last time he visited
| Cleveland. I furnished him with spiritual papers while he was detained
here by an attack of rheumatism some two or three weeks, and for the
| literature he expressed much gratitude. He read the papers thoroughly,
and remarked * that they afforded him the only consolation he obtained
during his confinement.’ 1
Last Wednesday evening Mrs. Speer and Dr. Templeman Speer gave
] a reception to Spiritualistic and other friends, at Douglas House, St.
John’s-wood, London.
Mr. Trubner informs us that another of Allan Kardec’s works, trans¬
lated by Miss Anna Blackwell, will be published by him in a few days’
i time.
i Rifts in the Veil, a handsome book containing some of the cream of
) the literature of Spiritualism, will be published about the lait day of
1 this month.
292
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 21, 1877,
SPIRITUALISM WITHOUT SPIRITS.
BY WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOR OP “ THE LIFE OF SWEDENBORG.”
Reading with interest Dr. Wyld’s paper, I am puzzled to
account for his statement that ff Swedenborg tells us that
spirits can summon to their presence any simulacrum
desired.” Where does Swedenborg make such a statement ?
Having referred to Swedenborg, I could wish that Dr.
Wyld were somewhat more of a Swedenborgian. He is anxious
to account for Spiritualism without spirits ; but Swedenborg
teaches that we are all vitally and indissolubly related to
spirits—so intimately, indeed, that were the connection
dissolved, we should be paralysed and perish. Our affections,
thoughts, and dreams, are spiritual manifestations ; our
good thoughts arise from the presence of celestial comrades,
and our evil thoughts are due to our infernal acquaintance.
We are therefore, one and all, u mediums ; ” and a disciple
of Swedenborg would maintain that “ spiritual manifesta¬
tions V are coextensive with human activity.
What is specially new in Spiritualism over Sweden-
borgianism, is the action of spirits external to the human
medium—a possibility of which I incline to think Swedenborg
was ignorant. If I move a chair, Swedenborg would say that I
do so in conjunction with the spirits to whom I am related ;
but that spirits should move a chair whilst I remain passive,
is a phenomenon, which, so far as I am aware, he never
contemplated. That such phenomenon, however, is not
devoid of human agency, is proved by the presence, of what
is called “a medium,” through whose aura, or emanations,
the spirits operate, but with difficulty, as imperfect and
unsatisfactory operations frequently attest.
In the course of the past twenty years, I have seen
numerous attempts to explain Spiritualism without spirits,
but one and all have been just such failures as the still more
numerous attempts to account for creation without an
omnipresent and incessant Creator. .
In Dr. Wyld’s paper there are many admirable suggestions,
which in no wise make for his conclusion, and which it would
be easy to array as contradictions ; but I have little doubt,
that, having brought forth his paradox, he will, in due
season, recognise its insufficiency. He is wiser than he
knows.
Hampstead, 17th Dec., 1877.
SPIRIT IDENTITY. j
In an experience extending over a dozen years, during j
which period I have had manifold opportunities of in- I
vestigating the phenomena of Spiritualism in all their varied , j
forms—from the simple “ raps ” to a materialisations in the j
light,” there is nothing which has puzzled me more than the j
matter of spirit identity. In the earliest stage of my in- j
quiries, I came to conclusions which a limited acquaintance j
with facts led me strongly to maintain, but which a broader I
knowledge has since compelled me to renounce. If a “ see- j
ing medium ” chanced to give a very correct description |
of my maternal relative, who, I was told, was standing, jjg:
though invisible, in my presence, I naturally argued that !
the spirit of the deceased was actually there; this was cer-
tainly very consoling, and went far to joroye that the loved I
and lost were taking an every day interest in one’s welfare by j!
turning up at promiscuous seances. It was not until I made I1
the acquaintance (which ultimately developed into closefriend- ji
ship) with a- middle-aged man, who was a medium without J
knowing it, that I came to look upon spirit-forms in a very Jj
different light to that which had previously attracted my h
attention. From a mere child, my friend had been the sjj
“ victim ” of spirit manifestations, and his life, if written, j(
would make up a goodly volume of weird narrative. He be- ji
lieved himself a “haunted man,” because a “familiar” spirit j!
at intervals—sometimes of weeks, sometimes of months— h
appeared to, and, despite his detestation and terror, often |J
addressed him. , ...1 l!
By making him acquainted with the facts of spirit-inter-
course, and lending him some of the literature of our move- d!
ment, his fears gradually wore off, and he grew accustomed j]
to the visits of the apparition, with whom many an hour was j<
alterwards spent in friendly intercourse. It was during the j!
conversations which passed between the spirit and myself, jj
that much light was thrown upon the question of spirit < ii
j j identity. I first of all, by a series of experiments, not
| H necessary here to describe, clearly demonstrated the personality
I of this particular spirit, and I then proceeded to endeavour
j j to identify other spirits which were said to appear in this
i I medium’s presence. My friend would sit at seances with
j j various persons. He alone would see spirit-forms hovering
j(j around or standing by the sitters, but such accurate descrip-
j tions were given, as to apparently prove that the medium
j ! was looking at the spirits of the departed friends of those
!| present. I mention two or three cases. At the back of a
j ! well-known public man, stood an aged lady, who wore one of
j j those peculiar shades named “uglies,” and whose general
| j eccentricity of appearances and dress drew forth the exclama-
j i tion, “That is my mother.” Another gentleman was in-
I dicated as related to or connected with a bluff-looking sea-
|| man, the minutiae of personal detail warranting the voluntary
j statement from one of the company—“ That is my father.”
j Again, an army surgeon, who had died in India, known by a
j scar on the face and by a peculiar hat given him by his
j friend—one of the circle—appeared, as did also a choir-
j master, who presented himself to view at the head of his
j choristers in a village church.. These visions—for such only
I they were—would seem to indicate that the spirit-friends of
|| the sitters had revealed themselves; and as it was quite
j clear that the medium knew nothing of the people he had
j described, his were satisfactory, and somewhat of a
j test characterv The explanation, however, followed shortly
! after. Sitting alone with the medium one day, the vision
j of Mr. , a living person, presented itself. “ Now, that’s
j curious!” said my astonished medium friend, “because Mr.
j So-and-so is alive.” “Yes, I saw him myself, not half-an-
j hour ago,” I added. Whilst talking, the familiar of the
j medium appeared, and, joining in the conversation, said,
j “I noticed the gentleman you had been talking with before
j you came in. He was fresh in your mind, and I gathered
j from your mind the exact resemblance of him, which I have
j now shown to the medium.” This then led me to speak of
j the appearances at the seances we had been holding, when
j the spirit said, “ I was the only spirit there, the others were
j merely images or pictures which I gathered from the people
j present.” “But,” I suggested, “Mr. could not have
I been thinking of the deceased person you described. He
j said he was the furthest from his thoughts, and he was
j anxiously desiring the attendance of some one else.” “ I
j know he was, and it appeared more satisfactory to him that
j not that person but some one else should have been de-
j scribed,” was the reply. This brought on a long discussion,
j in which the spirit distinctly affirmed that every thought
j that had crossed the mind, every landscape ever seen, every
j conversation ever heard, was not a mere thing of the dead
j past, but was recorded on the mind, and could be disinterred
j under proper medial conditions. For instance, at one of the
j seances a young lady might be thinking of a deceased sister,
j and wishing for her presence. The spirit, reading in her
j mental sphere that she had an uncle deceased, who might
j have been a soldier, and who had, perhaps, lost a limb, it
! was more startling to bring about a vision of a dead friend,
| i not just then occupying the mind, than the individual wished
j for. In both cases it was mere thought-reading, but not in
j the manner generally inferred. It was necessary for a spirit
j to be present to read the thoughts, and to reproduce them
j as visions or subjective appearances, and it is a marvellous
j power which enables a spirit to dig out, as it were, from the
j brain events buried in the long ago, and apparently for-
! gotten. Whether every spirit has this power I cannot saj7-,
j but the one of whom I speak was an excellent clairvoyant,
j and had given, over and over again, proofs of her wonderful
j ability, by describing accurately what was transpiring at
j given hours at houses into which the medium had never
j entered.
j Now, let us see how far the statement of this spirit is
) j borne out in other ways. Those who have read the Rev.
ij Mr. Townshend’s work on Mesmerism, will therein find
j instances given in vvhich a young lady in the trance state
j remembered a conversation which took place between herself
j and another person when she was but two years; of age,
j though she knew nothing of the matter in her waking state,
j Another case is given where an uneducated servant girl,
'! under the mesmeric spell, could accurately repeat lessons in
293
Deo. 21, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
the classics which she had heard her master’s pupils stumb- j
ling through in the school-room during her normal state. \\
Mesmerism thus seems to support my spirit friend’s state- j|
ment. If the mind did not contain the information given i i
in the above two instances, the mesmeric power could not j(
have brought it forth. It would seem as if every thought, !)
word, and action is indelibly recorded in the human mind,
and granted suitable conditions, spirits in or out of the body u
can become acquainted with them. , \)
I have yet another exemplification to offer in support of jj
this view of accounting for many “ spirit manifestations.” K
In a late number of The Spiritualist was a contribution j)
from Mr. Sherratt as to the mediumship of Miss Mancell. K
I venture to suggest that the ground there gone over is j
again covered by the explanations here given. I was talk- j
ing with the chief control of one of our best professional j
mediums, who has retired from public life, and the con- j
versation happened to turn on some topic which a previous !
controhhad been speaking about. It being of a scientific |
character, I asked whether I should go through the whole I
matter again. “ Oh, no !” he said, “ I will just leave the |j
control, and look into the medium’s mind; I shall gather j
its effect at a glance.” He did so, and returning in about j(
a minute proceeded to take up the argument, just as !
though I had stated the matter fully to him. He also, in I
reply to my inquiries, said that what the medium had once jj
heard was for ever imprinted on his brain, and that it was j
public property, so to speak, among the medium’s controls, j
If then it be a fact that spirits can represent to mediums’ |
appearances of the so-called dead, which appearances are j
so truthful as to satisfy inquirers who have not looked at )
matters in a critical light, does not the whole question of |
spirit identity become involved in a sea of doubt ? The jj
possibilities of fraud are immense. I need not enumerate j
them; but perhaps, should this article raise discussion, I j '
may have something further to add by way of unravelling |j
the skein of difficulty. . T. J. j
Ulverston, December 17,1877. I)
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF I
SPIRITUALISTS. j
SEANCE8 FOR INQUIRERS. !/
On Thursday, the 6fch inst., a seance was held at 38,
Great Russell-street, London, with Mr.Eglinton as medium;
besides whom, and myself, there were eight persons pre¬
sent—at least two of them being decidedly hard-headed, in¬
telligent sceptics. The medium’s coat sleeves were sewn
together at the wrists, and also at the elbows (between
which intervened a few inches of double thread), and his
coat was fastened also by sewing in front. He was then
seated just within the “cabinet,” the curtains of which j
were adjusted so as to cover his face and body, leaving his I
legs and feet exposed. Under these conditions, it was j
scarcely possible for the medium to move any part of his j
body—much less to attempt to extricate his hands—without j
the movement being detected, he being, so to speak hard j
between the back of the chair and curtains. (By the way j
this test condition, already overwhelmingly conclusive to j
those who actually witness the phenomena taking place,
may be made very nearly, if not quite “ absolute,” by satis- j
factorily securing the coat-sleeves to the wrists, as has j
sometimes been done). These arrangements having been j
carried out by the sitters, I placed upon the medium’s j
knees the “ Oxford Chimes,” and, upon this instrument, a j
hand bell and a small horn. I then lowered the gas, not J
quite to a “ bead,” so that the objects upon the medium’s
knees might be very distinctly visible when the eye became j
accustomed to the reduced light. In about three minutes, j
the strings of the “ chimes” wrere for the first time sounded; j
shortly afterwards a hand emerged from between the cur- j
tains, seized the bell and rang it violently, afterwards
throwing it upon the floor. I picked it up and replaced it ,j
over the medium’s knees, at a distance of at least four inches j
from the ffbnt of the curtain. Drawing the attention of j
the sitters to the fact that any hand now seizing the bell i
would be distinctly observable, I requested “Joey,” who' j
now became loquacious, as usual, to ring it again. In a jj
few minutes a hand, which I think must have been dis- !
tinctly visible to every sitter, seized and rang the bell i'
accordingly; upon which I asked “ Joey ” to allow us at
once to examine the medium. Three raps having almost
instantly been given, the gas was turned up, the curtains
opened, the eyes of the entranced and slightly convulsed
medium were covered with a handkerchief, and his fasten¬
ings examined and found intact. The seance was then re¬
sumed ; a book being placed over the medium’s knees, with
its back towards him; this was repeatedly opened and shut
by a hand which was visible at intervals. “ Joey ” then
asked for a sheet of paper, which was supplied by one of
the sceptics, seized by a hand protruded from between the
curtains, whisked into the cabinet, fluttered about and
inscribed, as was afterwards ascertained, with the name of
Sir J , another of the sceptical inquirers. “Joey,”
afterwards invited this gentleman to approach the cabinet,
and there to wait until a hand therefrom was distinctly
shown, and then instantly to rush in and examine the
medium’s fastenings. This was done, and the medium was
found secured as at first.
The seance was a satisfactory one; being, as I have
reason to believe, very convincing to those who witnessed
the materialisation phenomena for the first time.
Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.
Member of Seance Committee, in charge*
THE CROOKES-FAY CORRESPONDENCE.
BY EPES SARGENT.
I have read with much satisfaction, Mr. Wm. Crookes’
admirable reply to Dr. Carpenter in Nature for Nov. 15th,
1877. But he falls into a manifest injustice in the little
slur he throws upon Americans, apropos to the publication
of his letter in respect to Mrs. Eva Fay. It appears that
Mr. Robert Cooper, an English gentleman well known to the
Spiritualists of London, and who has been in this country
only a very few years, wrote Mr. Crookes from Boston,
making certain inquiries respecting Mrs. Fay. To this
application Mr. Crookes replied substantially to the effect
that no one had any authority from him to state that he
had any doubts of Mrs. Fay’s mediumship. The letter was
wholly unobjectionable, and so carefully worded that it
almost seemed as if intended for the public eye. Mr. Cooper,
wisely or unwisely, took the responsibility of publishing it
in The Banner of Light. I think he ought first to'have
got Mr. Crookes’ consent to this; but his intent was doubt¬
less good both towards Mr. Crookes and the cause of truth.
Without Mr. Cooper’s knowledge or approval, as he avers,
a facsimile of this same letter, how got he does not know,
appeared in The Nero York Graphic.
Here are the simple facts; and what I object to is the
incorrect impression conveyed (inadvertently, no doubt) by
Mr. Crookes’ reference to them. Dr. Carpenter, in his
aggressive article in Fraser's Magazine for Nov. 1877,
having, with his usual skill in blundering, made an incor¬
rect use of this Eva Fay letter, Mr. Crooke’s remarks in his
reply that u a Boston gentleman wrote and asked ” if there
were any truth in a certain statement. Hence the Eva Fay
letter, which Mr. Crookes now republishes in his communi¬
cations to Nature, and says :—g Not being aware that
private communications were less sacred in America than in
England, I was certainly surprised one morning to receive
a copy of an American newspaper containing a facsimile
of this private letter.”
Now, to characterise Mr. Robert Cooper as ‘‘a Boston
gentleman” conveys an erroneous impression, especially
when it is taken in connection with the subsequent slur
upon Americans. The daily paper publishing the fac¬
simile is- The Nero York Graphic, controlled, if I am not
misinformed, almost wholly by Englishmen.
EXPLANATORY LETTER PROM WILLIAM CROOKES.
To R. Cooper, Esq., 223, Washington-street, Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Dear Sir,—In reply to your favour of Oct. 25th, which I have
received this morning, I beg to state that no one has any authority
from me to state that I have any doubts of Mrs. Fay’s mediumship.
The published accounts of the test seances which took place at my
house are the best evidence which I can give of my belief in Mrs.
Fay’s powers. I should be sorry to find that any such rumours as
you mention should injure Mrs. Fay, whom I always found most ready
to submit to any conditions! thought fit to propose.—Believe me very
truly yours, William Crookes.
20, Mornington-road, London, N.W., Nov. 8th, 1875,
2U
THE SfclRtTtJALlST.
Dec. 21, 1877.
The Americans have been so frequently subjected to |
charges of this kind that perhaps it may seem like over-
sensitiveness in me to attempt to set things right. A drop
of muddy water, more or less, upon our garments ought not
to trouble us. I cannot suppose for a moment, however,
that Mr. Crookes would inteUtionally cast upon us a wholly ]\
unmerited reflection. The betrayal of letters manifestly -. j
private and confidential is so serious an offence that we
cannot stigmatise it too .strongly. I enclose for your I
scrutiny Mr. Crookes’ letter (already given by himself to ;|
the public) as it appeared in TAe Banner of Light of Nov.
27th, J.875. There is certainly nothing in the style of it : |
to indicate that it was intended to be strictly confidential.
The whole case, summarised, is just this:—An English- j
man in London writes a letter to an Englishman in Boston, ■ |
a facsimile of which is published in a New York paper
controlled by Englishmen; whereupon the first-named
Englishman makes the circumstance the ground for a slur I]
upon Americans.
68, Moreland-street, Boston, Dec. 3rd, 1877. ji
DR. SLADE IN BERLIN. j
certificate of The court conjuror that the phenomena are genuine— jj
AN HONEST CONJUROR. !
The Moniteur, a journal issued at Brussels by the |
Federation Spirite et Magnetique, gives a summary of a j
re6ent attack made upon Dr. Slade by a Berlin newspaper, j
the Tageblatt. In two long articles the Tageblatt details j
how a conjuror named Hermann, has exposed all the pre- j
tended manifestations of Slade by his own wonderful art. j
This proves to be nothing but a repetition of the so-called |
explanations of Mr. Maskelyne, such as the thimble held j
on to the finger by an elastic cord, which failed so lament- j
ably at Bow-street. One original trick is suggested by Mr. j
Hermann, which is that the sound of writing, which can |
always be heard by putting the ear against the slate, is j
produced by a piece of mechanism concealed by Dr. Slade j
in the button of his sleeve. The raps on the table, which j
are sometimes as loud as heavy blows from a sledge- |
hammer, proceed from the medium’s boot, and are illu- j
sions of the sense of hearing. The Tageblatt concludes |
by expressing its surprise that the police should any longer |
tolerate the sorcery. j
The Berlin Fremdenblatt gives a fair account of what j
really takes place in Dr. Slade’s presence, and relates the j
following incident, which we once more reprint in these !
columns. The writer, on coming out of the seance room, I
met a Dr. C., who had come from Silesia for the purpose of I
visiting Dr. Slade ; his object was to seek for information j
respecting a young man of whom no news had been received j
by his friends since last August, and who, it was feared, j
had perished. The two gentlemen entered the seance-room, j
together, and Dr. C. explained his mission. Dr. Slade ]
assured them that such power as he possessed was not at !
his own command, but nevertheless it was at their service. |
The questions were put, and writing was found on the slate j
to the effect that no news of the missing friend could be I
given that day; that Dr. C. must return on the morrow, and j
that he would shortly receive a letter. This answer was j
regarded by the writer with great suspicion. Spirits who j
require twenty-four hours to get their information appeared I
to him of a very terrestrial order. At this juncture, how- |
ever, Slade, who had probably become entranced, said, “I j
see a mangiving forthwith a description of the missing j
man, which Dr. C. acknowledged to be perfectly accurate, j
On the following day, the writer went alone to Slade, as |
Dr. C. was obliged to return to the country, and in his pre- j
sence the following was written on the slate :—“ We can |
give you good news of the young man—his grandfather is
present—he tells me that the young man is safe and well;
no harm has happened to him ; his father will receive a
letter in a few days. That is all we can tell you now; you
desired above all things to know that he is well; we shall
try to help him to prosper that he may return to his affec¬
tionate father.”
We now subjoin a copy of an official document signed in
the presence of a notary, the original of which has been
forwarded to us from Berlin.
JYo. 482. Notary's Register for 1877.
Drawn at Berlin, the sixth day of December, one thou¬
sand eight hundred and seventy-seven, in presence of the
undersigned notary, residing at Taubenstrasse, No. 42, in
the jurisdiction of the Boyal Supreme Court of Judicature,
Gustav Haagen, Counsellor, and in presence of the under¬
signed witnesses, personally known to the notary, of full
age, who can read and write, and are residents here.
Carl Trumper, Letter Carrier,
Gustav Grutz, Letter Carrier,
who, as well as the notary, as notary and witnesses both
hereby declare they have no connection with the case,
which, according to pages five to nine of the Act of July the
eleventh, eighteen hundred and forty-five would exclude
them from participating in this document,
Did appear this day personally before the undersigned
notary, known to him and found duly qualified to act,
The Prestidigitator and Court Conjuror to His Majesty the
King and Emperor William I.
Mr. Samuel Bellachini, residing at Grossbaaronstrasse,
No. 14,
which gentleman did prefer the following statement under
date Berlin, the 6th of December, in this year, and that he
certified:—
That the signature of my name hereby appended was
written by me in due form, I hereby acknowledge.
Read, approved, and executed.
(Signed) Samuel Bellachini.
We, the notary and witnesses attest that the above trans¬
action took place as herein stated; that it was in the pre¬
sence of us, notary and witnesses; read aloud to the person
concerned, approved by him, and signed by his own hand.
(Signed) 1 Gustav Grutz.
j Karl Trumper.
\ Gustav Haagen, Notary.
Executed at Berlin on the sixth of December, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-seven,and entered in the Notary’s
register under the number four hundred and eighty-two, for
the year eighteen hundred and seventy-seven.
Signed and officially stamped.
Gustav Haagen, Counsellor and Notary.
I hereby .declare it to be a rash action to give decisive judg¬
ment upon the objective medial performance of the American
medium, Mr. Henry Slade, after only one sitting, and the
observations so made.
After I had, at the wish of several highly esteemed
gentlemen of rank and position, and also for my own
interest, tested the physical mediumship of Mr. Slade in a
series of sittings by full daylight, as well as in the evening,
in his bedroom, I must, for the sake of truth, hereby certify
that the phenomenal occurrences with Mr. Slade, have been
thoroughly examined by me, with the minutest observation
and investigation of his surroundings, including the table,
and that I have not in the smallest instance found anything to
be produced by means of prestidigitative manifestations, or
by mechanical apparatus, and that any explanation of the
experiments which took place under the circumstances and
conditions then obtaining, by any reference to prestidigitation,
to be absolutely impossible.
It must rest with such men of science as Crookes and
Wallace, in London ; Perty, in Berne; Butlerof, in St. Peters¬
burg ; to search for the explanation of this phenomenal
power, and to prove its reality. I declare, moreover, the
published opinions of laymen, as to the “How” ofjthis
Dec. 21, 1877.
295
THE SPIRITUALIST.
subject to be premature, and according to my view and
experience, false and one-sided. This, my declaration, is
signed and executed before a notary and witnesses.
{Signed) Samuel Bellachini.
Berlin, 6 December, 1877.
Another attack on Dr. Slade was made by Dr. Elcho, in the
Gartenlaube. To this, an elaborate reply has been published
by Mr. Gr. 0. Wittig, the sub-editor of Physic Studies,
who was present with Dr. Elcho at the seance in question.
Mr. Wittig has issued his reply in the form of a pamphlet
of twenty-seven pages, in which he has included a “ last
appeal to German men of science,” to inquire into
medial phenomena, as now presented through Mr. Henry
Slade. The pamphlet has been sent to the representatives
of the press all over Germany.
A LECTURE ON SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. T. P. Barkas, E.G.S., delivered to the members of the Newcastle
Psychological Society, yesterday evening, a lecture which he entitled,
“A Popular Review of Recent Researches in Physics, Biology, and
Psychology.” It was now, he said, almost universally admitted that
experiment, and experiment alone, or, what in many cases is the same
thing, spontaneous and carefully verified experience, lies at the basis of
all true knowledge of physics, biology, and psychology. Verification
by oft-repeated experiment, diversified as much as the circumstances
of the case will permit, is the only justification for the hearty acceptance
of any alleged new fact in any department of inquiry. Dogmatic denial
of any such alleged fact that has been vouched for by ordinarily credible
and able witnesses, after careful investigation, is, in view of the wondrous
development of the antecedently improbable realities of natural pheno¬
mena, only less foolish than their too ready acceptance. He reminded
his audience of the descriptions he had given since January, 1854, of
many remarkable occurrences which he had had the good fortune to
witness in connection with the occult phenomena that can occur spon¬
taneously, but are most frequently observed either in public or private
stances. To the investigation of phenomena commonly termed spiritual
manifestations, he had devoted, more or less continuously, several years
of careful attention. The early manifestations were of a very simple
and rudimentary character, but they rapidly increased in interest and
complexity. Having described the various phenomena he had witnessed
during that period, Mr. Barkas proceeded to inquire in what way the
phenomena—the genuineness of which had been f‘1 decided to the entire
satisfaction of all who have fully examined them ”—can be most satis¬
factorily accounted for ? I am (Jie said) as the result of years of
observation and much cautious reflection, shut up to the conviction that
the phenomena are produced for the most part by disembodied intelli¬
gences of various grades, and different degrees of development and
progress, the majority, if not all, of whom have passed through their
preliminary stages in this life. Mr. Barkas then contrasted the teach¬
ings of “ rigid orthodoxy” and Spiritualism. We select a few of the
samples. 1. Orthodoxy teaches the existence of a tripartite anthropo¬
morphic deity ; Spiritualism teaches that God is one, indivisible,
invisible, and to all beings incomprehensible. 2. Orthodoxy teaches
the existence of two states or conditions in the future, known as heaven
and hell ; Spiritualism teaches the existence of numerous states,
extending gradually from the very depraved to the most exalted.
4. Orthodoxy teaches the existence of an endless hell for all who are
impenitent or unbelieving; Spiritualism teaches that the future world,
as well as the present, is a condition of probation and progress, and
that “ the present life is but beings’ first faint ray.” 5. Orthodoxy
teaches that the bad go direct to hell, and the good to heaven ; Spirit¬
ualism teaches that all mankind enter, on departing this life, into a
spiritual sphere, for which spiritually and morally they are fitted, and
that in that sphere they may either progress or retrograde, but that at
some point retrogression and consequent misery cease, and all are even¬
tually raised to goodness And consequent happiness. 6. Orthodoxy teaches
that all punishment may be avoided by penitence and belief in Christ
at any period of terrestrial life ; Spiritualism teaches that every man
must in his own person suffer the penalty of his misdoings, and can
only avoid further punishment by sincere reformation. 7. Orthodoxy
teaches that each individual of the human race will be judged and
approved or condemned on one day, known as the Day of Judgment;
Spiritualism teaches that there is no such day, but that every day men
are judged, approved, or condemned, no specially set apart day being
necessary. Having referred to the investigation of spiritual phenomena
during the last quarter of a century, the lecturer said that the majority
of those who had accepted the reality of the phenomena had also
accepted the spiritual hypothesis—namely, that they are produced by
extra-mundane agents; but there was yet a great diversity of opinion
as to the identity of the agents who produce the occult effects that are
witnessed at seances. He acknowledged the receipt of revelations as to
the conditions of a future life ahd of terrestrial knowledge from one
whom, though he had never seen, he loved to term his friend. He had
received from him mqre information than ever he had obtained or hoped
to obtain from any embodied man. In conclusion, Mr. Barkas said:
To the majority of men the future is a matter of doubtful faith ; but
to the vast proportion of those who have been earnest investigators of
modern spiritual phenojnena the belief takes the aspect of knowledge—
knowledge not based upon demonstration, but upon the strong balance
of probabilities.—Northern Daily Express, December 11th.
THE FAMISHED HEART.
Among Miss Lizzie Doten’s beautiful poems, given through her own
trance mediumship, is the following, which we quote from her
Poems of Progress :—<
“ Unconscious of my spirit’s change,
Long did I linger near the earth,
Until a being, kind, though strange,
Recalled me to my conscious worth.
From thence I seemed to be transformed,
Renewed as by redeeming grace,
And then my soul the purpose formed
To see ‘ the Saviour of the race.’
1 My aspirations served to bear
My earnest spirit swift away,
Until a heaven, serene and fair,
My onward progress seemed to stay.
I came where two immortals trod
In friendly converse, side by side;
‘ O, lead me to the Son of God,
That I may worship him I ’ I cried.
“ One turned, and from his aspect mild
A benison of love was shed;
‘ 0, say, whom do you seek, dear child ?
We all are sons of God,’ he said.
‘ Nay, nay 1 ’ I cried, ‘ not such I mean!
But Him who died on Calvary—
The humble-hearted Nazarene ! ’
He meekly answered, ‘Iam he! ’
“‘0 then, as sinful Mary knelt,
In tearful sorrow, at thy feet,
So does my icy nature melt,
And her sweet reverence I repeat.
O God! 0 Christ! 0 Living All!
Thou art the Life, the Truth, the Way;
Lo! at Thy feet I humbly fall,
Cast not my sinful soul away! *
“ ‘ Poor bleeding heart! poor wounded dove! ’
In tones of gentleness he said:
‘ How hast thou famished for that love
Which is indeed “ the living bread? ”
Kneel not to me; the Power Divine
Than I, is greater, mightier far:
His glories lesser lights outshine,
As noonday hides the brightest star.’
“ ‘ You died for all the world 1 I cried,
I And therefore do I bend the knee.’
‘ My friend,’ * he answered, ‘ at my side,
Long ere I suffered, died for me.
He drained for man the poisoned cup,
I gave my body to the cross,
But when the sum is counted up,
Great is our gain, and small our loss.
<l ‘Not thus would I be deified,
Or claim the homage that men pay;
But he who takes me for his guide,
Makes me his Life, his Truth, his Way.
O, heaven shall not descend to man,
Nor man ascend to heaven above,
Till he shall see salvation’s plan
Is written in the law of love.
“ ‘ Dear sister I let your fears depart—
I have no power to bid you live,
But I can feed your famished heart
Upon the love I freely give.
Mine are the hearts that men condemn,
Or crush in their ambitious strife,
And through my love I am to them
“ The Resurrection and the Life.” ’
r He raised me gently from his feet,
And laid my head upon his breast.
0 God ! how calm, how pure and sweet,
How more than peaceful was that rest 1
I feel that blessed presence yet;
It fills me with a joy serene;
Nor have I hungered since I met
The gentle-hearted Nazarene.”
* Socrates.
296 THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 21, 1877.
“ PALMISTRY OR OTHERWISE.” j
The following letter from its Paris correspondent was some time ago I
published in the Globe newspaper:— j j
The Arab idea that the fate of each man is bound about his neck, and j (
that no one can avoid his doom, is, to a certain extent, shared by every j j
one. Western civilisation has failed to do away with superstition, and j (
even the freethinker and materialist cannot shake off the idea that a j I
man carries in his face or in his head a chapter of his destiny some can I)
decipher. The gambler has his fetiche. One player, whose good !
fortune has often been the talk of the clubs, is known to carry a medal- ij
lion on his breast containing a piece of rope cut from the cord with |)
which a suicide committed self-murder. The rope is looked on with the j (
utmost veneration; it will preserve the man who carries it about with Hi
him from harm and accident, and, according to popular belief, the i)
wearer will be successful in everything he undertakes. Another man l<]
will carry old and battered coins about with him, or sit playing at the |)|
table of his club with an old watch under his hand, or with his keys
jingling in his fingers, to the utter annoyance of those who happen to sit j(
near him at the board of green cloth. The tradesman who is about to ||
take a larger shop, or the merchant on the eve of embarking in some ! <!
speculation, will make his way to the haunt of the sibyl, elbowing as he | j j
passes in the who has been to consult the cards and the toad ||
Astaroth, and has received the flattering assurance that she will live to 1(1
ride in her carriage. The fond mother takes her boy to the fortune- j) i
teller that she may read his future in the palm of the child’s hand, and j|i
doctors have just discovered that the probable chances of recovery of |(|
any sick person may be found on examination of the hand, fingers, and m
nails. The giant strides science is making will soon leave nothing In
undiscovered; we shall know everything, and certain pages of the book | j j
of the future will be laid open before us. Our fate is to be prophesied j/ j
by the lines in our hand. The tall cap of the magician, the ball of in
crystal, the magic mirror, or the cat, owl, and toad of the modern Hi
sorcerer, are no longer required. A man’s progress through life is to be j/j
foretold ; he carries it about with him. His life is in the hollow of his |H
hand, open to the perusal of those who are adepts in the science.
Some thirty years ago one of the most famous among our modern j||
oracles died. In 1790, Mdlle. Lenormand, who was engaged as reader j( i
by the Marquise Damerval de la Sansotte, left her situation. She had j j
incurred the displeasure of her mistress by practising the art of magic ||
and studying works on divination, a science which was at its zenith j j
when Pharaoh reigned over Egypt. Mdlle. Lenormand had predicted 1 > j
the outbreak of the great Revolution, and foretold the tragic fate which it I
awaited Louis XYI. She declared that the future had no secrets from j(j
her, and on resigning her post as reader to the marquise she opened a j|j ■
small library in the Rue de Tournou, which soon became a fashionable j(j
resort for those who were anxious to know what the future had in store ! j j
for them. History tells us that the sibyl was one day visited by three jjj
young fellows in uniform. Their hands were submitted to her scrutinis- i(j
ing gaze. The first youth, wearing the dress of a sub-lieutenant of jjj
marines, was told that he would be a king, receiving such an assertion or j j j
promise with incredulous laughter, although some years later he became m
known to the world as Bernadotte, King of Sweden; the second, barely jjj
nineteen years of age, in the garb of a seminarist, to whom a similar j / j
promise was made, became King of Naples, when Murat had abandoned m
the Church for the tented field ; while the third, a young artillery lieu- j j
tenant, for whom a still more brilliant destiny was predicted, carved his ij j
name with his sword in the annals of French history as Napoleon the ||
Great. Mademoiselle Lenormand was imprisoned during the Reign of j) j
Terror for having disclosed to Marat, Saint Just, and Robespierre the j j
fate which awaited them. Napoleon also visited her with his dis- j j
pleasure, accusing her of interfering in political questions. Among her jjj
customers may be found the names of such men as Fouche, Barras, jjj
David the artist, Denon the philosopher, General Moreau, Garat the jjj
singer, Talma the actor, Prince Talleyrand, and hundreds of other illus- jjj
trious personages, while her interview with the Empress Josephine, ijj
whose brilliant fortune but disastrous end she prognosticated, is known jjj
to every one.
The death of Mdlle. Lenormand did not close her consulting room, jfj
One of her fervent disciples and followers, who had assisted her when j)j
alive, attending to the minor wants of insignificant customers, succeeded j(j
her as an oracle, keeping open the shop in the Rue de Tournou. The j)j
future is not a sealed book to the lady who has succeeded the revolu- jjl
tionary Cassandra. Although the abolition of lotteries was a death-blow j j i
to the art of divination, there are still plenty of people who will never jjj
embark in any speculation without first having consulted some oracle or jji
other, either a somnambulist or a fortune-teller, two professions the law j j
never molests unless any direct charge of swindling can be substantiated j j
against the individuals practising them. Mademoiselle Lenormand’s Kj
successor has been well patronised, and the reputation of the consulting- jjj
room in the Rue de Tournou has not diminished. Madame Moreau, the j j j
present oracle, has been visited by men of rank and position. She has j(j
penetrated the disguise of a late Cabinet Minister, who had sufficient jjj
confidence in her power to pay her a visit incognito ; and many well- j j j
known persons have been encouraged to surmount those obstacles which jjj
often present themselves at the commencement of our worldly career by jji
the assurance that success would crown their efforts. The sibyl has j j
departed slightly from traditions left her by her former mistress. She j j j
has made great progress in the art of palmistry, and has done away with i jj ;
all the glamour and mystery which once surrounded the unravelling of jjj .
the future. She has no magic lens, no black cock unsullied by white jjj
feather picks up the grains of corn strewn over the cards, nor does the jjj
smoke rising from sacrificial incense point to events in the future. Her jji
predictions are based on the general appearance or physiognomy of the jjj;
person consulting her, and on the lines which intersect each other in ijj
the palm of the open hand. She is capricious, and declines to receive jjj
certain persons. In some cases she has pushed back the proffered Hi
hand with horror, and in one instance is said to have told a member
of the Paris Commune, who at the time of consulting her was a
mild, harmless student, to leave her presence, as he had the “ brand of
Cain ” upon his brow, a prophecy he eventually verified by his acts of
cruelty during the insurrection.
The sorceress, if such, indeed, she may be called is a mild, matronly-
looking woman of sixty. She has none of that acrimony and sharp¬
featuredness about her which is supposed to belong to those who study
necromancy, and ride on a broomstick through the air to conventicles
held at midnight in the Black Forest or Hartz Mountains; Her fee is
regulated according to the amount of information you require. Your
left hand is held out, the lines are eagerly scanned and compared; you
feel the sibyl’s eyes piercing you through and through, reading as it
were both past and future, and then a pack of cards is given you. The
pack is composed of tarots, that is to say, a peculiar kind of card,
illustrated with mythological and allegorical figures. You shuffle them,
cut them three times with your left hand, and they are then laid out in
a certain order, to be gathered up again and consulted by the oracle,
.who tells you what fate has in store for you. Madame Moreau asserts
that the science of palmistry has been neglected. Almost from birth
nature describes our kismet in our hands, and the destiny and capability
of each individual may be learnt even before the brain has become
developed, or the sutures of the skull have closed. She is quite a
philanthropist in her way, and has promised for a trifle to examine the
hands of all the children in her quarter, so that their parents may have
an idea of the mental capacities of their boys, and learn what vocation
may possibly secure them a certain share of success in the world.
Madame Moreau has made some wonderful predictions, many of them
anything but to the taste of those who, having consulted her, have found
her words come true. She can confidentially quote a number of
instances where a dark future has been foretold and verified in the case
of men on whom Fortune was at the moment smiling, and her prophe¬
cies are quite as lucid as those of the Arab women, who in fortune-
telling have no equals.
There must be some truth in the assertion that with many of us our
destinies are written in our faces or in our hands. Some eighteen years
ago a detachment of cavalry was sent out against the Arabs who refused
to pay the tribute levied on them. A sharp engagement took place in the
plain, and one of the Arabs, after wounding a young sub-lieutenant
severely, was captured and sentenced to death as a rebel. The wounded
man happened to be rather a favourite with his comrades, and short
shrift was given to the prisoner. The revolt was subdued, but the very
evening when the chieftain and his people made their submission, the
sentry guarding the tent of the wounded subaltern, who was being visited
by the captain and lieutenant of his regiment, gave the alarm. A woman
was arrested and brought into the tent, confessing she had murder in her
soul. Half mad, she clamoured for her son, who had been shot at day¬
break. She declared she had come to avenge him, and cursed the
officers present in the tent with all the energy of her race. She
sank on the floor, burying her head in her hands, sobbing convul¬
sively, refusing to allow the sentries to touch her. Suddenly she rose
up like a Pythoness, cast her yaschmgk from her, and her grizzled locks
hanging about her forehead, again commenced her curses. “ You,” she
cried, turning to the captain, “ you shall die the same death as that to
which you condemned my boy!” She clutched him by the arm and
cried, “ Do you not see the guns levelled at your breast, look at the
uniform of the firing party, they are your own men 1” Turning then
her wrath against the lieutenant, she told him he would never see
France again, that the lady whose likeness he wore in the locket under
his tunic would never more set eyes on him, for his bones would whiten
on the desert, the soil of Algeria sapping up the blood of the man who
had killed one of her children. The wounded man was not spared ; he
was told that he would live to hate the uniform of which he was then so
proud, and that when he had broken his sword in its scabbard and torn
his epaulettes from his shoulders in disgust at the ruin of his fondest
hopes, he would know that the curse of the childless Arab mother had
been fulfilled. Two years afterwards the lieutenant was missed; he had
stolen out of camp. ' Some six months afterwards his bones were found
bleaching in the sun, with the locket and his epaulettes and sword alone
intact for his identification. The captain was shot by his own men in a
state of mutiny on the morning of the 18th of March, 1871, when order¬
ing them to charge the riotous Communists, and the sub-lieutenant has
broken his sword in disgust and retired into private life.
Correspondence.
[Great freedom isglven to corretpondents^ who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this' journal and. its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
SLATE-WRITING IN GREEK.
Sir,—At a seance last night, in the presence of three persons beside
myself, with Mr. Eglinton as medium, the material form of “Joey”
first made in our presence about twenty yards of white drapery, which
certainly never saw a loom of Manchester. The matter of which it was
formed was visibly gathered from the atmosphere, and later melted into
invisible air. I have seen at least a hundred yards so manufactured.
Then “Joey” said, “ Dr. Nichols, I have got into a great row about
that Greek, which you transcribed imperfectly.” He then selected two
small slates from a pile of new ones lying on the mantle-shelf, and
handed them to me to be cleaned. I rubbed them both thoroughly, and
so did each of the three others—one of them using a wet cloth. “ Joey”
then borrowed my knife, whittled a piece of slate pencil, bit off a piece
of it, and placed it between the two slates, and then carefully wrapped
up both in a piece of newspaper. • This was all»done in the centre of
the small room, quite away from the medium, and in plain sight of all.
Then, at his request, I moved my chair forward, and sitting facing
Deg. 21, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
297
“ Joey” held one corner of the slates with my left hand, as he did the
other corner with his right, and I laid the fingers of my right hand on
the fingers of his left. Instantly we heard the sound of writing, on the
slates. In a few moments three little raps told us the writing was done,
and I pushed back into my place, holding the slates;
At the end of the stance we found on one slate a message for Mrs.
Nichols from the late Dr. Ferguson, signed with his name in his well-
known hand-writing, and oh the other, in a very neat and delicate hand,
each letter almost separately written, the following :—
“The message in Greek has been imperfectly transcribed by you.
Translate as written below, and you have the proverb in its correct and
original meaning:—
“ Orav $£ Aai/tow avSpi iropavvr) kukSi Tov vovv e fiXaipe ^rp<jjrov.,,
The fifth word is underscored, as you will see on the slate I leave for
your inspection.”
Now, one fact, for what it is worth, is as good as a million. Here is
a Greek sentence twice written, under absolute test conditions, in the
presence of several persons, by some invisible intelligence, between two
slates closely bound and firmly held together. The medium was not
near the slates. They were prepared by a human form, which was not
that of any one of the five persons in the room. Not one of those five
persons could write the shortest sentence in Greek. Not one of them
knew that there was such a proverb in that language.
T. L. Nichols, M.D.
32,, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W., Dec. 10th, 1877.
THE VIEWS OF THE THEOSOPHISTS.
Sir,—In his statement, published in your issue of December 7th,
Col. Olcott invites comment upon the views expressed. Many of these,
I think, are in harmony with the facts already mastered, and the truths
already realised, by thinkers who are men of science and also
Spiritualists. But in defining the alleged individualities termed
Elementals” as “the forces of nature,” “the force of the wind, the
fire, the flood,” the Theosophy of Col. Olcott severs itself from all
possible connection with modern science, and places itself in antagonism
to it on one of its broadest fields of exact knowledge. Is this an inad¬
vertence, a chance flaw in the system, to be remedied by further thought ?
Or does this Theosophy claim kindred not with the physics of Newton,
but with those of Paracelsus; not with chemistry, but with alchemy;
not with astronomy, but with astrology—
JH A?'s sine artem, cujus principium mendicere ” ?
What Col. Olcott calls the “ Elementals,” he calls also the forces of
nature,” modern science calls modes of energy, and equates to
m.h = m.—• “ The perfect initiate has absolute dominion over those
errant, unthinking, soulless forces of nature, and with their help can do
what common men call miracle. Of themselves they have no more
desire to harm than to help us, and are no more responsible for their
actions than the wind that blows, the fire that burns, the flood that
devastates. They are the force of the wind, the fire, the flood. They
are the creatures of immutable law, and man, in employing them, but
uses them in obedience to the same, aiding nature.” Is not this figurative
language, in which the initiate in science might convey the half-truths
which alone could be realised by men to whom ineradicable mythologies
and superstitions have personified the agencies of nature ? Or is it
supposed we can admitt in these days, that the potential energy stored
up, for instance, in gunpowder is in reality an “elemental;” that the
kinetic energy of the cannon-ball, into which the former is converted, is
another individuality of similar nature; and that the heat generated
when the ball strikes the target has a distinct personality ? If so,
Theosophy is not in advance of, but considerably behind, the times.
Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.
Brixton. ■ ■ '■
Sir,—Colonel Olcott deserves the thanks of all intelligent men for his
concise and lucid statement of the views of the Theosophists, and I shall
be glad when all Spiritualists can say in as few words what the founda¬
tion of their belief is.
But there are points in his letter which I should like to make a few
comments upon.
My remarks will be based upon experience gained through constant
sittings with one of the best trance mediums in this country, whom I
know to be a pure-minded person, and intellectually well-developed; I
also am an inspirational medium.
First, as to duality at birth, and perhaps until the sixth or seventh
year. I had three children who passed away at the respective ages of two,
four, and six years. These have all been seen, and described by
the medium while in her normal state (she never having seen them in
earth-life); their names were given, and they were described standing
in the room in full daylight, both as they were in earth-life, and as they
are now, grown; they said that they would love me more and more as
they grew and grew; she also described a sister who passed away
when I was a child.
As to the annihilation of the depraved, I have known persons come
back, who I knew to be very depraved on earth, and to state, like
rational men, that they were getting on and learning the reason and
object of their existence. These statements have been afterwards con¬
firmed by glorious beings who come often, and who have proved by their
mastery of the laws which are governing the universe, that they are
worthy of being believed.
If the seers of the East have gained such mastery of the secrets of
nature, why is the East sunk in moral and physical degradation ? If
these men have sounded the depths of nature, why have they not found
out that it is their duty to work for the elevation of the human family ?
Had the Theosophists thoroughly comprehended the nature of the
soul and spirit, and its relation to the body, they would have known that
if the soul once left the body it could not return. The spirit can leave,
but if the soul once leaves, it leaves for ever. Therefore, the assumption
that form manifestations are caused by the soul leaving the body, is an
unreasonable one.
Then he says, “We affirm that the indiscriminate attainment
of immortality would be contrary to the analysis of nature,
and repugnant to the idea of strict justice.” The survival of the
fittest is the result of force, not power, and power is the result of
mind, not of physical force. Mind has latent powers which can be
brought out by culture, and use, and strengthened thereby, but force is
exhausted by being employed. The power of mind to discriminate
truth from error, and show the individual his duty and position in
the universe is not brought out, through pre-natal and subsequent
conditions and surroundings, over which the person had no control;
also through want of education, and during the whole of his youth
being surrounded by vice and ignorance, and the necessity of every-day
working at an exhaustive and incongenial employment for physical
sustenance; also through being crushed by tyrants, and driven to
violence and crime by injustice. Would it be “ justice ” if such a man
lost his immortality? I answer “ No,” and the angels cry, “No.”
One might be led to infer by Col. Olcott’s remarks that we are igno¬
rant of the laws of spirit intercourse, but this is not so. I have not
written on Spiritualism before; but from the first moment that I
became acquainted with the subject I have sought by careful observa¬
tion to master the details, for I believe in nothing which I cannot demon¬
strate as plainly as I can a question in botany, or mesmerism, or phre¬
nology, which sciences I have long worked at. As a consequence,
electricity and zoology, and the other sciences have come under my ob¬
servation, the whole being in affinity, as is all truth. J. Croucher.
18, Overston-road, Hammersmith, W., Dec. 10, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM IN CAPE TOWN.
Sir,—I send you a few lines to say that Dr. Peebles has been here
some few weeks, descanting on the great truths of spiritual science, and
intends leaving for England by the mail steamer on Dec. 4th. He has
caused no little stir in all quarters, which I think must ultimately have
a beneficial effect on receptive minds. I am pleased to see the cause
prospers at home. Berks T. Hutchinson.
Cape Town, South Africa, Nov. 20th.
SPIRITUALISM AND CONJURORS.
Sir,—Some time since I observed in The Spiritualist an account of
the “tri-union feat” of Dr. Lynn’s “medium,” by Mr. Alfred Russel
Wallace, in which I was surprised to see that Mr. Wallace was inclined
to attribute the manifestations to Spiritualism. It was simply a con¬
juring trick very cleverly done indeed, as was also the instantaneous
freeing from ropes and tapes tied by any of the audience. The figures
were concealed in a manner well known to conjurors, and they open
into forms somewhat “umbrella-fashion.” The rope business is simply
the result of the application of the fact that any knot tied on an
extended cord or tape, is of necessity a slip-knot, however firmly it may
appear to be fastened, even to a close observer. For instance, the
“ medium’s ” hands are tied a few inches apart by a piece of tape,
which is just long enough to go once only round each arm. The first
knot may be firm enough, but the second is bound to be a slip-knot, if
you keep your hands well apart while it is being tied—it cannot be
otherwise. This is a secret known to but few, and Dr. Lynn certainly
makes capital use of it. It puzzled me extremely at first, when I was
in the cabinet with the “ medium ; ” and although I had firmly tied him
myself (not then knowing the trick), “stopping the circulation,” as the
doctor said. I had my coat taken off in a second or two, the
“medium,” in as short a space of time, appearing firmly bound as
before. Now, I can do it myself equally well.
Again, Mr. Serjeant Cox appeared greatly surprised at a Mr.
Everett getting free from handcuffs. If he will expend a guinea with
Messrs. Hamley, 231, High Holborn, he can obtain the secret for
himself ; at least, it is so advertised in their new catalogue—“ out of
any handcuffs.”
Again, a deal of fraudulent slate-writing is done in this manner :
One side of the slate {being jireviously written on) is covered with a
thin veneer of the same material; the other side of the veneer is covered
with blotting paper, &c. Of course this can be cleaned and scrubbed,
and writing thereon rubbed out to any extent, and yet, by getting
cleverly rid of the veneered side, the message underneath will remain
intact, appearing on the side of the slate next to the table, to the
astonishment of the uninitiated.
Of course, these explanations are only given to prevent sham mediums
playing tricks. They do not in the least .explain other manifestations
of a different nature, or such slate-writing as that of Dr. Slade, for
example. But it seems a pity that such men as those I have named
should be inclined to attribute to spiritual causes, tricks which are
included in the repertoire of any professional conjuror, and it can but
do harm to the cause by weakening the effect of their evidence in other
far different cases.
I see Dr. Wyld refers to the Everetts in this week’s Spiritualist, and
says Mr. Everitt told him he was freed from the handcuffs “in a
trance 1 ” Let Dr. Wyld consult Messrs. Hamley.
Ernest Whatley.
Cirencester, December 14th, 1877.
FAITH.
Sir,—I have said that it is not faith in a physician which cuTes; and
I think I safely maintain that position by advancing the following query
—What faith have the little children in a hospital, who for the first time
since their birth see a physician ? They know nothing of him, for they
are ignorant of all things and persons around; they hate the very stuff
THE SPIBITTTAIiIST.
Deo. 21, 1877.
which is given them, and cry lustily at its forcible administration. In
spite of themselves they are cured. Is it not then plain that the cura¬
tive power lies outside of faith ? In no possible manner can the cure of
these children be attributed to faith, for they are perfectly innocent of
such an article.
Again, one who has no particle of faith in the power of our healers
is persuaded to make a trial of it; presently a doctor exercises that
power, and this most incredulous patient is healed.
Or, go to the New Testament for an illustration. The man Jairus,
hearing of Jesus’ fame as a healer, begged of him to cure an only
daughter aged twelve. He sets out for Jairus’ house; but before Jesus
gets there the people meet him, and repoit the child’s death. He
replies, “ Fear not, believe only, and she shall be made whole.’’ He
enters the room. What occurs? He “took her by the hand, and
called, saying, maid, arise; and her spirit came again, and she arose
straitway.” As this young girl possessed no symptom of life, it would
require a strong visionary to credit her with faith. What healed her
but the healing faculty of Jesus ?
Let me add that Jesus continually strove to impress on his hearers
the belief that he was sent from Gi-od; and nowhere is Jesus so explicit
on the point of faith as in the 22nd verse of Mark xi., where He says,
“ Have faith in God ”—which faith is best shown by following God’s
will in the culture of virtuous principles. Alex. Calder.
1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, London, Dec. 16th, 1877.
THE “SPIRIT OF THE MEDIUM” THEORY.
Sir,—It is with great concern that I read of the effort now making to
explain all materialisations as being the medium’s double, thus reducing
Spiritualism to materialism doubly materialised.
In the hope of adding my mite of proof to the falsity of such a doc¬
trine I trouble you with these few words.
My own initiation into the truths of Spiritualism arose from my
daughter (a natural clairvoyante) always seeing by my side a little boy;
and every clairvoyant whom I have since visited has at once (unasked
or even hinted at by me) told me of this same little boy by my side,
giving of him precisely the same description as my daughter.
On going to Mr. Hudson for spirit photographs, this little boy mani¬
fested himself most beautifully on the plate, and on my showing the
photograph to my daughter, she instantly exclaimed—“ Why, that is the
little boy I always see about you—his exact likeness !”
This same child has since fully materialised to me in the light, and
has in the direct voice given me his name.
Now, sir, is that little boy a double of myself, or of any or all of the
clairvoyant mediums who have seen him ? Or is he simply what he
himself professes to be, a spirit from the spirit-land in the closest affinity
with me ?
I leave the answer to the plain common sense of all who may hear
of this statement, a conscientiously true one, as all who know the facts
can bear witness.
One more word, if you will allow me.
Were the three angels (or materialised spirit forms) whom Abraham
entertained, and who ate and drank with him, doubles of himself ?
Were the two angels whom Lot entertained doubles of himself?
Was the angel who wrestled with Jacob a double of himself ?
And if these events are true, who shall venture to say that what the
Almighty has once permitted He either cannot or will not permit again,
when in His infinite wisdom He sees the time is ripe for a renewal of
such events ?
Should you think these few words worthy of a second thought in the
cause of truth I beg you will make any use you please of them, with the
exception of publishing my name. As you know me, this will not be
necessary. X.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY ?
Sir,—Since writing to jhm before, I have received the dates of two
births which I believe to be perfectly accurate, and as they would
afford a good test of the value of astrology in describing the personal
appearance and career of any person unknown to the artist, perhaps you
will not object to add them to those already sent you.
The first is of a male native, born 15th February, 1817, at 1 a.m.,
near Glasgow, and the second, also a male, born at 5.45 a.m. on the 11th
July, 1850, at Perth, in Scotland. Fritz,
I Manchester. _  
Sir,—A considerable amount of correspondence has appeared in your
pages relative to. the proper way of finding the right ascension of the
meridian in erecting an astrological Figure of Heaven, Mr. Massey,
“ Aldebaran,” “ Raphael,” and Mr. Pearce, all seem either to disagree
or misapprehend one another. At present, certainly, the matter is in
confusion, and Mr. Massey may well admit, as he does in a recent
issue, that he is still puzzled.
As a student of astrology for many years, and one who has thoroughly
gone into this and other matters connected with that ancient and little
understood art, allow me to explain, for the benefit of your readers the
method of finding, with mathematical accuracy, the right ascension of
the Medium Cceli at any given time and place. I wish to observe that
Mr. Pearce is substantially correct in his observations and calculations;
but the figure being for London he has preferred to omit the sidereal
correction, and also the correction for longitude. They are not important
in the present case, but a figure set that way for Liverpool or for New
York would not be correct.
I propose, therefore, to take the same time and place for exempli¬
fication, but to perform the operation exactly, and so as to furnish a
method suitable for any time and place in the Northerm Hemisphere.
In this method the Ephemeris used must be one adapted to Green¬
wich mean noon. Since the year 1834 the Nautical Almanack, White's
Ephemeris, Raphael's Ephemeris, Zadkiel's Ephemeris, and all other
almanacks in'this country are calculated from Greenwich mean noon;
prior to that date they were computed for apparent solar noon at Green¬
wich. Given local civil mean time =1877, Oct. 15., llh. 55m. a.m.
London, per clock. (If in the morning add 12h. to it, call it p.m., and
call the day of the month one day earlier, in' order to convert it into
astronomical time, viz., Oct. 14, 23h. 55m. p.m. = London mean time.
The long, of London is 0° 6' W.; lat. 51° 32' N.
1. Reduce the given local mean time p.m. to the equivalent Green¬
wich mean time; viz., 1. Multiply the degrees and minutes of longitude
by 4, and call the result time of the next lower denomination, i.e.,
minutes and seconds. (Thus, 0° 6' long. X 4 = 0m. 24s.) 2. Apply
this time to the given local mean time p.m,, adding it if the longitude
be west, and subtracting it if it be east. The result is Greenwich
mean time, equivalent to given local mean time. (Thus local mean
time, Oct. 14, 23h. 55m. Os; + 24s. = Oct. 14, 23h. 55m. 24s. Green¬
wich mean time.)
2. On this Greenwich mean time find the acceleration of sidereal on
mean time. This correction is always additive and equal to 3m.
56,5554s. per 24 hours of mean time, or (nearly) O'1643s. per minute.
(Therefore, on 23h. 55m. 24s., the exact acceleration is 3m. 55'8s.
3. Find the Right Ascension of the meridian by adding the amount
of the acceleration, the local mean time p.m., and the sidereal time
at Greenwich mean noon preceding; as per Ephemeris.* The
total of these three items, less 24 hours, if necessary=the RA of
the MO. (Thus Oh. 3m, 55’8s. + Oct. 14, 23h. 55m. Os., -J- I3h. 52m.
33s. = I3h. 51m. 28,8s. RA of MO, which if multiplied by 15 will give
the same in degrees, minutes, and seconds=202° 52' 12''.)
4. If the longitude answering to this RA in the midheaven be
required, it may generally be found correctly by the tables of Robert
Craunon, or by the Tables of Houses for London and Liverpool, given
in Zadkiel’s “ Tables.” Raphael’s Ephemeres for 1875, 1876,1877 give
a Table of Houses for London; his Ephemeres for 1839 and 1858 give
tables for Liverpool; his Ephemeris for 1840 gives one for Leeds; and
that for 1860 gives one for New York. The trigonometrical formula is
as follows. From given RA subtract 0°, 90°, 180°, or 270°, to reduce it
to RA from these points—Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricorn. Then to
log. cosine of 23° 28', add log. cotangent of RA from Aries or Libra, or
tangent from Cancer or Capricorn; sum = log. cotangent of longitude
from Aries or Libra, or tangent of longitude from Cancer or Capricorn;
the degrees and minutes of which longitude plus 0°, 90°, 180°, 270°,
according as RA was from Aries, Cancer, Libra, or Capricorn = longi¬
tude from beginning of Aries. Thus RA of MC = 202° 52' 12'' less
180 = RA of MC for Libra, 22° 52' 12". Then
Log. cosine 23° 28' . . . . . 9'96251
+ Log. cotang. 22° 52' 12" . : . 10'37489
10-33740
= log. cotang. long, of MC for Libra, 24* 42'.
This was the exact point of the ecliptic culminating at St. Paul’s,
London, at 5 minutes before noon (per London clocks) on the 15 th
October, 1877. By adding to the RA of MC 30°, 60°, 90®, 120°, 150°,
we get the oblique ascension of the cusps of the eleventh, twelfth
ascendant, second and third houses, from which their longitude may be
trigonometrically deduced with great exactness. The process is a long
and somewhat difficult one; but if any of your readers wish it, I shall
be happy, with your permission, to give a more explicit formula for the
purpose than is to be met with in astrological books.
To an inquiry made by your correspondent in the Isle of Man, I beg
to say that Bohn’s edition of Zadkiel’s Lilly's Introduction to Astrology,
contains Lilly's Horary Astrology, Zadkiel’s Grammar of Astrology,
and Zadkiel’s Tables for Calculating Nativities. The Grammar treats
only on genethliacal astrology—that branch which applies to nativities.
The only original work ever published by Zadkiel on horary questions
is the first volume of his Handbook of Astrology, 1861, which is a work
quite independent of Lilly's Astrology, and useful to be used in con¬
nection with it. Frederic Willis.
50, Fitzwilliam-street, Huddersfield, Nov. 26fch, 1877.
* If the Ephemeris does not furnish sidereal time at mean noon, the
Sun’s right ascension in time, plus clock slow, or minus clock fast, all at
mean noon=siderial time. If Ephemeris fails to give the daily RAof Sun, as
well as sidereal time, furnishing only his longitude, the RA answering to Sun’s
longitude on first noon may be deduced from that longitude, either by tables of
RA in Zadkiel’s Tables for Calculating Nativities,” or by this trigonometrical
formula. To the log. cosine of 23° 28', add log. tangent of longitude from
beginning of Aries or Libra, or log. cotangent of longitude from Cancer or
Capricorn,—sum = log. tangent of the RA from Aries or Libra, or log.
cotangent of RA from Cancer or Capricorn ; the degrees and minutes of which
RA, plus 0®, 90°, 180°, or 270°, according as longitude was from Aries, Cancer
Libra, or Capricorn, = RA from beginning of Aries. Thus, Oct. 14, Sun’s
long, at noon is—
Libra   21° 15'
Log. cosine  23 28 9‘9625I
-{- Log. tang. RA. ......... 21 15 I 9-58981
Log. tang. RA ......... 19
+ 180
38
0
199
38
X15
Sun’s RA Oct. 14’ < 
( 13h. 18m. 32s.
Clock slow, Oct. 14+0 14 1
Sidereal time at mean
noon, Oct, 14 ...... 13h. 32m. 33.
9*55232
Dec. 21, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
299
FORM MANIFESTATIONS. i)j
Sir,—On Thursday evening last, the 13th inst., the Brixton Psycho- Hi
logical Society held a stance with Mr. Eglinton, at No. 6, Lough- |ji
borough-road North, Brixton. Only four members were present, but, jh
after sitting a few minutes in darkness round a table, and obtaining j S |
the usual physical manifestations, “Joey’s” voice audibly suggested j)i
to us that, as the conditions of the circle were very harmonious, we | (i
should sit for materialisations, adding that, as far as we were concerned, Hi
he did not foresee any difficulty, but that there were two or three outer j)i
influences which he would have to combat. 1)1
We, therefore, broke up and rearranged ourselves. The folding Hj
doors between the front and back drawing room were half closed, j)i
leaving a space open from floor to ceiling of about two feet six inches i (j
wide; black curtains were suspended across this space, the top being Hi
about five feet seven inches from the floor, high enough to conceal Mr. j)!
Eglinton’s entire figure. The doors of both rooms were locked and the K |
keys retained by us, the windows being completely covered with a frame- i)!
work of black oil cloth. The medium was left in the front room in j u
which we had been sitting ; we retired into the other, lowered the gas j (j
(but not so much as to prevent our seeing every object in the room, or Hi
from telling the time by a watch at five feet from the light), and took In
our seats about ten feet from the curtains. Great good humour) pre- | \ j
vailed between us and “Joey,” who certainly showed the better side of Hi
his character throughout. We were rather astonished by the medium jj j
advancing into our room, and pacing the floor in a very restless manner, j j j
using his arms and hands in a jerking, mechanical way, as if dragging jl|
something from where we sat and flinging it into the other room. He j( j
then joined the hands of the two outer members of the circle with the H j
other hands, and, greatly agitated, he approached the curtain, when we j) [
saw a nebulous moving white mass of indistinct outline, but of volume i \ j
nearly equal to that of the medium, standing beside him, and which he j j {
followed into the other room. Then a figure of rounded, womanly |) |
outline advanced and receded two paces, repeating this three times; Hi
the head, as well as the whole body, was shrouded in white, and the H j
features were not observable. Then came the tall, slight figure of jh
“ Abdullah,” who boldly advanced four paces towards us, stood under j (j
the gas within two paces of us, and we observed a bright ornament in H j
his turban flashing in its light. He appeared to be about six feet or a little j /' j
more in height, and when he receded, profoundly “ salaaming,’’ the bending j \ j
of the hip and knee joints was distinctly seen. Four times did this Hj
striking figure advance and retire, each time apparently gaining greater j j j
confidence and ease. “ Joey ” himself then materialised, and, thrusting j (j
his head between the curtains, exclaimed how glad he was to see us all H j
again; he talked vigorously the whole time, and presently emerged H|
into our room, his vivacity and quick nervous movements contrasting j) j
strongly with the staid dignity of the last figure. He then commenced j) j
a process, not easy to describe, of manufacturing the drapery in which j |
all these forms were clad. He grasped the white masses which en- j [ i
veloped his lower extremities, and shook them out into a serai- |5j
transparent film of waving light, two feet wide, which crept along the j l j
floor-space separating us. The more vigorous his action, the more j) j
opaque became the substance, which, instead of being drawn back to i)j
the figure, melted away where it was, leaving the pattern of the carpet \l j
visible. A hinged slate, with a scrap of pencil inside, had been provided j) i
by one of the sittefs, who had also tied it both ways with string; this \) I
“Joey” now produced, and expressed a wish to write upon it in that j !
condition ; he tried, and petulantly acknowledged he could not do it, 1)!
but, having returned towards the medium, he came back in great force, j / j
and asked one of the sitters to hold the slate with him ; the sound of j j
writing was then heard, and at the conclusion of the seance, on one side if j
of the slate was written “Joey,” and on the other “Mr. B.” As it ||j
was, however, not impossible to remove and replace the string, the test j j j
was not complete. !) j
A few parting words from “ Joey,” in which he spoke most kindly of j j j
the harmony of the circle, ascribing to it his power of producing so i) j
much, brought to a close a most remarkable seance.
During “Joey’s ” and “Abdullah’s” stay with us, the deep breathings ; j j
of the medium were heard, as well as the movement of his boots on the !) j
floor; and, in order to test the objectivity of the forms, I displaced the i)l
parallelism) of the visual rays by squinting and by pressure upon the jjj
ball of the eye ; in every case the duplicate image showed itself.
W. Newton, F.RG.S. j j
There is some probability that Madame Blavatsky will visit Englanl i j
shortly, en route for India. j j!
The Baroness von Vay informs us that Prince Emile von Wittgenstein i i \
is in attendance on the Emperor of Russia, and is in good health. He |) j
will probably soon return with the Emperor to St. Petersburg. Hi
Last Tuesday night Miss Ella Dietz gave some excellent recitations !)j
at one of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s receptions. Among the friends j(j
present were Sir William Fairfax, Bart., Miss Spencer, the Hon. Mrs. Hi
Forbes, and Dr. Cranstoun Charles. i (i
Orbituary.—We have received a funeral card “In affectionate re- j i
membrance of George Stones, who departed this life December 12th, in ||
the 75 th year of his age, and whose remains were this day interred at H j
the parish church, Kirkham (Monday, December 17th, 1877).”
Mr. Peterson has offered a donation of £5 to the National Association j| |
of Spiritualists, to be spent on the library at 38, Great Russell-street, f||
London, if five other persons will contribute the same before January ]|i
1st. Mr. A. Calder has added his name to the list for £‘5, and Mr. Hj
Cranstoun, Mrs. Lowe, Mr. Joad, and “ A Friend,” have promised £1 j j
each, thus nearly making a third contribution of £5. It is to be hoped j( j
that this matter will be taken up in time, as the library of the National j||
Association—already not inconsiderable—will be greatly increased in j/j
value by the addition which could be made to it if Mr. Peterson’s f‘||
generous example is followed. H I
A PRESENTIMENT FULFILLED.
(From the “ Evening Standard,’' December 17th).
A curious case of presentiment fulfilled is reported from
America. When the United States steamer Huron was
lying at Port Royal, Lieutenant Arthur K. Fletcher, her
first officer, obtained twenty-four hours’ leave of absence.
He did not’return to time, and the vessel sailed without
him. Some days afterwards, Lieutenant Fletcher reported
himself to the senior officer at Port Royal, Commodore
Glitz, and stated, to excuse his default, that he was haunted
by a presentiment of misfortune. Mysterious voices warned
him that the Huron would be wrecked on her cruise, which
had two years more to run. That this was no excuse in¬
vented pro re natd is shown by the efforts he had already
made to get his appointment cancelled; not until all hope
was lost did Lieutenant Fletcher desert in the manner
stated. He was put under arrest, and tried by court-martial
last August, when this defence caused some amusement.
Commodore Clitz, Commander Ryan, of the Huron, and
other officers proved that Lieutenant Fletcher had con¬
fided to them his alarms, and the papers of the Navy
Department showed his applications for removal. He was
convicted, we assume, and the matter was forgotten, until
the Huron went down off Kitty Hawk, with the best part of
her crew, but not with Lieutenant Fletcher. Spiritualists
are eagerly inquiring into the case, and there seems to be
a vague impression on the public mind that the defaulting
officer has been justified in his conduct by the event. We
hold quite the opposite opinion. Granting the presenti¬
ment, which seems to be well established, an officer is
bound the more to his ship and his comrades the greater
peril he sees before them. No presentiment could raise
such strong assurance of danger to come as the mere sight
of.a hostile vessel would give in war time ; but there are not
two opinions possible about the conduct of an officer who
would desert before the enemy.
THE DREAM OF ST. THERESA.
Have you heard of the dream that she had—
Theresa the saintly ?
Come, listen, ye good and ye bad !
And heed it not faintly.
A weird, awful woman she saw,
And wondered what brought her;
In one hand she bore flaming straw,
In the other hand water.
“ Where bound ?” asked Theresa. “ Oh tell ?”
This answer was given :
“ Theresa I go to quench hell,
And then to burn heaven.”
“But why,” asked the saint, “ do you make
So wild an endeavour ?”
“ Si that men, for His own holy sake,
May love God for ever.”
—Epes Sargent in “ Lippincotl’s Magazine?’
Next Sunday Mr. W. J. Colville will deliver an inspirational dis¬
course and poem on “ Christmas,” at 429, Oxford-street, service to com¬
mence at 11 a.m. In the afternoon, at 3.15, in the same hall, he will
deliver an address and poem, and reply to questions on subjects to be
chosen by the audience. All seats free. A voluntary collection will be
made to defray the expenses connected with the services. The Rev. W.
Miall has subscribed ten shillings towards the defrayal of the expenses.
To Correspondents.—Some inconvenience to some of our corre¬
spondents may be avoided, by a more close adhesion on their part to
the ordinary rules of journalism; not that these customs are much
broken by Spiritualists, but that exceptional cases have become
sufficiently numerous to call for public notice. Of late there have been
several breaches of literary etiquette, and of natural good taste, by
persons sending what presumably were special contributions to this
journal, but were in reality merely circulars sent at the same time to
various periodicals, the consequent reduced value of the contributions
being kept out of sight by the withholding of the information that they
were circulars. By this line of action they have sometimes managed
to get their utterances printed in two or more journals, thereby delaying
the publication of the communications of other Spiritualists, and
keeping out news, in order to get their own statements printed twice
over. We have therefore to request that those who send in circulars,
will state that they are such, and not send them under the guise of
special contributions. Possibly we may make occasional use of a circular,
but not often. Again, there is a printed notice in every number of
The Spiritualist, that the return of unsolicited communications cannot
be guaranteed, and that the writers should keep copies. Some contri¬
butors pay no attention to this, and subject themselves to corresponding
inconvenience.
300
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 21, 1877.
ITEMS OF SPIRITUALISTIC NEWS FROM LIVERPOOL.
The Liverpool Psychological Society has recently taken a room in the
Camden Hotel, Camden-street, in which the members meet every Sunday
evening. The services are of a semi-private character, no one is allowed
to be present unless introduced by a member of the society. Mr. John
Lamont, formerly vice-president of the society, has delivered two ad¬
dresses at these meetings, and Mr. Shepherd has given an interesting
lecture on Mesmerism, detailing a number of facts which have occurred
within his own experience. A considerable amount of interest was
manifested in the lecture, and is indicated by the fact that he will deliver
another on the same subject next Sunday. Miss Violet Dickson, a local
trance medium, also favoured the society with her presence. Last
Sunday Mr. Johnston, trance medium, from Hyde, was present, and
while under control answered a number of questions of a philosophical
and psychological character, put by those present. Mr. Lamont, Mr.
Shepherd, and Mr. Johnston will again occupy the platform at no distant
date.
On Monday night, at a meeting of the Young Men’s Christian and
Literary Society, in connection with St. Mark’s Church, Upper Duke-
street, a gentleman read a paper on u Spiritualism, from a Spiritualist’s
Point of View.” Many Spiritualists were present, including Messrs.
John and Archibald Lamont, Mr. John Ainsworth and friends, Mr.
John Chapman, and Mr. Chatham. The incumbent of St. Mark’s,
the Rev. C. J. O’Reilly, M.A., who occupied the chair, opened the
meeting with a short invocation, and then introduced the lecturer,
who said that Spiritualism was a subject of vast extent; its import¬
ance could only be measured by the great amount of antagonism and
prejudice with which it and its advocates were at all times treated. He
would ask them that evening to lay aside as much as possible their pre¬
conceived ideas of what was possible, and what was impossible, in the
order of things ; he would that evening present to them a plain narration
of facts, well-authenticated by practical observers, whose positions in the
literary, philosophic, and scientific walks of life had admirably fitted
them to sift the evidence that Spiritualism, as a modern movement,
had to offer on its own behalf. The supernatural had occupied the
attention of men in all ages; it had left its impress on the pages of
history, and he must be an inattentive observer indeed who could not
trace its course along the stream of time. Take its records from the
pages of the Bible, and nothing would be left of that book save the
covers. There he found that angel visitants appeared from time to time
in the forms of men, and as men. Three appeared to Abraham and fore¬
told the birth of Isaac ,* one wrestled with Jacob on the morning of his
vision in the wilderness; one stopped Balaam in the way to Baalpeor ;
one advised and directed Gideon; one spoke unto the wife of Manoa,
in daylight, and disappeared from her presence in a flame of fire ; one
visited Elijah ; another angel stood on the threshing-floor, and gave
counsel about Israel; one visited Elizabeth, as to the coming of John
the Baptist; a host appeared to the Shepherds of the Plain, and sang
their anthem of love and God’s “ good-will to mentwo appeared with
Jesus to James and John; one released Peter from prison; one spoke to
John the Evangelist at Patmos. These were a few of the numerous in¬
stances on record in the Bible, to say nothing of other phenomena
similar to those observable to-day in connection with Modern Spirit¬
ualism, such as direct voices, communications by visions, and trance;
healing of the sick by the laying on of hands ; fire rendered harmless, as
in the case of the three children of Israel. It was believed by Christians
that in a rude and barbaric age it was necessary that these gifts and
manifestations should be made use of by God and his servants to lead the
people in the right way, but there was no use for them now. But he con»
tended that the age of miracles had never passed away. When the Church
was sunk in materialism, and clothed herself with state garments and
sacerdotalism, she lost many of her valuable gifts—gifts of the spirit,
and evidence of her power from on high; but those powers were not
lost to mankind, and who could say, looking upon the world to-day, that
there was not as much need for them as ever ? The Scripture did not
say that the age of miracles would pass away with the close of its
records ; nay, rather they were called upon to seek and cultivate the best
gifts. The lecturer then gave a brief account of the history of American
Spiritualism, dating back to 1848 and the connection of the Fox family
with the rapping phenomena. He wished to draw a distinction between
noises and rappings. Noises were mere noises, but when they became
signals, rapped out intelligent messages, they were certainly worthy of
attention. In the case at Hydesville, the raps declared they were pro¬
duced by the spirit of a murdered man. The matter was investi¬
gated, and created greated excitement; a skeleton was found as
described by the raps. The two little girls (the Fox sisters) both
under twelve years of age, were carefully examined, thoroughly tested
by sceptical committees of learned men; the rappings occurred in spite
of all precautions, and the investigators had to declare that whatever the
cause, imposture and delusion were entirely out of the question. In
1851 a society was formed that had judges, senators, and lawyers
amongst its members. In 1854 another association was formed that had
four judges and eight physicians amongst its vice-presidents. The
object of these associations was the investigation of the claims of
Spiritualism. Later on Professor Mapes, an eminent man of science,
and twelve gentlemen, agreed to hold twenty seances for the investiga¬
tion of the phenomena ; at the first eighteen seances the manifestations
were of such a trivial character that some of the gentlemen were for
retiring in disgust, but the last two seances were so successful, and phe¬
nomena occurred of such an astounding kind, that they sat periodically
for four years longer, and every one of the twelve gentlemen became a
Spiritualist. The speaker gave lengthy readings from Mrs. Emma
Hardinge Britten’s History o) American Spiritualism, and remarked
that as fast as one phase of the phenomena was satisfactorily accounted
for by the sceptical world, another series sprang up, which took the
learned savants by the ears, and asked for explanation. Drums
were beat in the air; enclosed pianos were played upon by
1intelligences that in every case claimed to be spirits of the “living
!|| dead”; enclosed letters were read by mediums, languages pre-
;jj senting no barrier, and being answered in the same tongues;
])! some mediums drew portraits of deceased persons whom they
i(j had never seen; others laid hands upon the sick and healed them ; and,
iii what was stranger still, sometimes healed persons at a distance whom
■;5j they never had seen. But one thing which more than anything else
| (i contributed to the propagation of this strange faith, namely, the thrilling
jiii and eloquent discourses given through the lips of trance and inspira-
)n tional mediums. In America the converts to Spiritualism were counted
i (| by j millions; on the Continent and in England by thousands,
n! Communications given through media were frequently sublime, grand,
j/j and ennobling, and on subjects well worthy the attention of mankind,
ijj Writing by planchette was then described, and writing mediumship
m came under notice. Books of poetry were compiled, and in many
l| | instances were considered by critics equal in point and finish to those of
ij| Homer, Milton and Dante. Direct writing was described, including
j|| the slate-writing phenomena through Dr. Slade. But it was in the
) i private domestic circle that the greatest wonders took place; and he
(| advised each and all to begin to investigate for themselves as soon as
) i possible.
c | During some interruptions the lecturer observed that it was not
\ I evidence of a philosophic mind to sneer at what was not understood.
) | Drawings and paintings were frequently given, and, by way of illus-
(j tration, lie narrated a seance given by Mr. Duguid, at which Dr.
(! Robert S. Wyld and Mr. ■ Tod were present. Various wonders in
)! physical phenomena were then detailed—rappings, alterations in the
(i weight of bodies, movement of bodies (physical objects), the passage of
) | matter through matter, and the fire-test through Mr. Home. All these
) f various phenomena were inexplicable by the known laws of nature;
(i neither could they be explained by conjuring; it was not within the
) j source of the art of legerdemain to produce such phenomena under such
i conditions. The lecturer finished an address, which occupied one hour
(I and three-quarters, by describing clairvoyance, clairaudience, and giving
) j interesting details of the early life of Andrew Jackson Davis, and the
) I development of the clairvoyant faculty in him. The discussion on the
j paper was postponed. The Rev. President of the Association closed the
j | meeting with the Benediction.
) j Mr. Milton will read a paper on “ Spiritualism ” at the Hamilton-
| road Unitarian Church, Liverpool, at an early date.
) j Several private circles are held in various parts of Liverpool, in
11 which phenomena in every phase are presented.
) | Professor Blackie on Gloomy Religion.—Professor John Stuart
) | Blackie delivered a lecture, entitled “ Scotch Nationality,” to a large
j j audience in Dennistoun Free Church, Armadale-street, Glasgow, a
I few nights ago. He said that of the indications of Scotch nationality,
the most strongly marked was the religion of the people. One of the
| results of their form of religion, though this was to be regretted, was
to stifle any sense of humour, and the Aberdonians, the most typical
of Scotchmen, had the most stern faces he had ever seen, looking as
s I if they had been carved out of granite, for all his efforts could not
j ! screw a smile out of them. There were some things in their Scotch
(j theology he did not sympathise with. He referred more particularly
11 to a certain narrowness and exclusiveness, and a certain self-righteous-
) I ness and censoriousness, a certain want of human kindness, a certain
| | tendency to introduce questions more political than religious, and to
V j stamp the name of God upon some wretched crotchet. Why, he would
I | require a microscope now-a-days to distinguish between the Free and
\ | Established Church, and he had never been able to get such a micro-
) I scope. What were they quarrelling about ? Where was patronage
>! now 1 Why did they not rush into each other’s arms and embrace
| each other 1 He called upon them, in the name of common sense and
i St. Paul, to perfect one another in love and unity. Then there was a
I decided want of sunshine in the general atmosphere of the Church,
| there was a decided gloom and awfulness about Sunday which did not
| harmonise with the gaiety of Monday. It was very absurd for persons
j j to imagine because they were religious that they must not dance—that
j j they must not visit theatres. Of course, he did not say that all plays
) i were good any more than all sermons were good; . but if they
) j patronised the theatre more, he did not think that bad pieces would
i long retain their position on the stage. Why, the Young Men’s
j Association of that church might even have dramatic representations
||] of their own, in which scriptural characters might be delineated. It
| i was a bad thing to mix up gloom with religion, and always to talk on
j i religious subjects as if a lemon were in the mouth. At the con-
11 elusion of his lecture, which was listened to with attention, and
{| loudly applauded, the learned Professor received a hearty vote of
| is thanks.
j; ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
}\ E. F. G.—The result of indistinct writing.
) | 0. L. Y.—Your letter does not amount to a certificate, unless you add your
(i address to it.
( i; M.—You are not the only person who has urged us to “show up” those
( i people who get all they can out of Spiritualism, but who never do anything
) j; in any way for it, or for anything else, beyond that which they are forced
I to do by their own selfishness. Why blame them ? What is the use of
| censorious controversy ? They cannot help their organisations, the result
i usually of mean moral hereditary conditions,- and of early training of a
j corresponding nature.1 We have seen such persons temporarily forced into
I positions which only people of honour and independence of character could
j. efficiently fill; they were as miserable as bats in sunshine, and from the
j sheer pain they felt at being so placed, were obliged to give them up. They
' i cannot help their inbred nature.
Dec. 21, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PEIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 103. 6d.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, E.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena, information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and tho Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” waS to the effect
that there is no douht as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the m diumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
78. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
hook consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiratn. n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s! fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES' OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.’
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. cd.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Sph-it
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie See)'." . s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .. . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ • , • • .7 6-
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . ' . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . ..76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . I . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . ... .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . ' . .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .GO
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . , .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . ,30
Morning Lectures . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds - . I . . . 5 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . ’. , IS .0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind’; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert II. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . ■ . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recenthj produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, IF. C..
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press,
“As a dispassionate scientiflc man, ho appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify bis opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
otfly of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d prio)~i objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical."—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistie throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-tu-rning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he he
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of tho task itself f To those who are un •
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit woild, which are tho ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
Hews
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free.
w. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
ottained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 /or Is., post free, or 500for Is. Qd., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The roal
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamcuring about them; the facta, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
bow to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
mHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
JL describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s, 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
IV
TBjE f a Pi® IT UAL IS T.^
M
Dec. 21, . 1877.
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE I AND^PRE
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAE MEANS. W I
LORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated thegother
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State 'depend.’'
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and prSmature
death see a large -Illustrated Sheet given with each bdttlejpf
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT. The information is'invaluable?-'A^‘i
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonicMnJthe
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared,
from sound/ripe fruit). It is the best preventive ahd cure 'for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,,
Pimples oh the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishhess?!Feverisn
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite/Sourness 'ofjf the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—-“ Amongst; the ..many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into .public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. M| Comparativeiy 'unknpwn
some year or so ago/this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in eyery.quarter
of the globe. The great merit which iS claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure ahd the,system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the grdiindwork* of-mala¬
rious diseases so .common to. towns -and disfricts ;which
are ill-drained. There is little-doubt, but ithat-,the tiuids
wilj eventually come .when fevers ancL diseases resulting
fl-om'poisoned blood will be considered Spas Ik offences
against the well-being of 'communities5fat\large; butjw'd1
•wBlr in all probability, belsome whiiMyetf<.beford;it
shall .have arrived at such a pitch of (.sanitary;perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a,,,rweieome'*'to"' atty
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler "the bettef/so .long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALTjrl^asibeen'jtforjnd fen
excellent corrective to the digestlve/prgans, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South**Aihmca, has a largely
increasing sale.- It is better bytfSr t^an^jiips/^tand
amongst the Good Templars—a jiuma-ous community all
over the world—it is recoghiSed poU only^s a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—Mail, Nov. 1,
1877. , . ... :, v.-..f ;-ur
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS -TO
KNOW.* Pp I& m.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.-^A” G;0ntI8maii./writes
“Since I have used EN'O’SiFRUII^S’AL'TSnifehtla'fid
morning, my headaches, &c.', have left me.^ahd.'this after
suffering for above twenty years.:-Ybufshould; make/this
fact well known.” : ; v. r-. -
NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes: —
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before ! compi^nped tjkipg/it; the
little food I could take generallytiuKished.me gr/rpturped^
My life was one of great sufferingj- sd'that/l'lnust'have':
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK ANDUlOUSSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—AttBOTTLEiOF
E
E
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
E
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC, ,/ .
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.’**^' / ! ;
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM' SOUND RIPE
- fruit.
The Fruit Salt is one-of Nature’s own products./It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe FruitMn i a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in everytrespect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained^© ^ /
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallownpss^pf ,the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not'tlig/lcast of its.
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit ih TftyriatiirM way.
in which it relieves the system of effete or pois6ifous*nfatter,*
which, if retained, poisons the bjoofi; and its advantages over*
fruit is that it can be always at band’when: required:^* Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of-modern'
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable.y lt ajjays,-
nervous excitement, and restores, the nervous system do^itS;
pfoper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond-"
praise. * .
END’S FRUIT SALT
IS' particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without;
a supply, for by its use .the most dangerous forms of -Beyers,!
Blood Poisons„&c., are Prevented and Cured..- It ris,' in truth, a,-
Family Afedicine Chest in the simplest yet, most, potent lorm,,
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its .effect in relieving thirst,”
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking. '
NO'S FRUIT, SALT (one of Nature’s own*
products) keeps the blood pure; and is thus of itself one of
tlie most valuable means of.keeping the,blood free from-
fevers and blood poisons,'liver-complaint^ &c:, ever,
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant/
refreshing and invigorating beverage. Aftcr/a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its grdat value in'keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not, a house-
hold in' the land would be without' it/ nor' a ^'single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would- contain it.—
J. C. Eno. •
END’Sf FRUIT SALT.—i“-Iam very much .pleased
witli,your FRUIT SALT. I .have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely, cured me of indigestion.”—
JV Wood, Jun., Tudof-road, Canterbury. ‘ ;
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HE ART/caused by Li ver.Derangement and Indiges-.
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart.Disease
it On April 141 purchased a bottle .of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and It had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
hut very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my Sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please — f am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett ”
Aug. 30, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” - Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Em's Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Said by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.
■Sole Agent for Porw—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
- -   LA PAIX. ;
■MHHtt; | I ■ +4, f Just'Published,'/.Ujji? 1^0
Price Seven.Shillings! arid Sixpence,'CrdwfiiSvo, richly
f- --xV^Tl%E*'LAZY a
i ,'AN DVsp-Rt) s E I M A GI NTN G S| J .
. • ^ ... #’ g. H. harmson/*^ ;
. ..jjAn iplegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose; *
<' *&.<*:'• - .-?•-la:. Writings, Grave and Gay. m
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton'and the
Author.
’ . Contents.
Part.1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings. '
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editofi—3.' The-Sohg of.the Pawnbroker.—4.-The Castle.—5. The
Lawbf the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
Al Shficabac was Photographed. (A letter from' Hadji A1 Shacftbac,
a-,gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to -All /Mfigtapha 'Be® Budiram, Chigf oflthe~Col-?
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St.;'Bride’s,Bay.—10. The Lay of "the
Market Gardener.All.'”Fast Falls the Eventide.”,-frl2. -Our Raven,:
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the .Photographer.—
-14.:How- to Double the Utility of the. Printing Press.—15. The.
|Sbhg of thb Mother in-Law.—16. WirbeV-beiflegung.—Vt! “Poor Old
Joe!”—IS.-Tli’e Human Hive.—19. The Lay of theMace-Bearers.—
- 30* A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. •“ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel. ofiSiJence." -
gMYpwiri.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws-
The Public Analyst Lagi General Grant’s Receptiorfat Folke-’
’stone.—26.---The Rifle Cofps.k/27. Tony’s Lament.—28.sThe July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.h .<! ' ’. I
’ From {ThP7‘Moming Pgtt.'fi.
*■ The ‘Moi'ning Post, which ^strongly recommends the bookin a
review nearly a column long; saysComic literature which
honestly deserves .ihe epithet, seems to be rapidly* becoming; a
thing of the past; cdfiSequehtly ally writer who, like Mr. Harrison ,-'
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enj oylan innocent laugh.' Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some qf.his poenjs touch, on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our. common huihknity,;. . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published f<5r years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome fijjom
which its; tasteful appearance will not detract.” T^e Morning,,
.PosAsays of The Wobolejaw Ballads:—“No;one can,help lauglpdg'
at tltenV,” and it’says that the rhymes are pitchedin something
like the saai'e‘.key}’ ag The Bon Gaultier Ballads’or The'Billow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.” f
/From The Court Journal. \
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift." '' - v • r*i
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, puhnshe'd and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusselLsjreet). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, arid in some of the latter there, is a vein of genial satire
which adds piqu^icy to the fun*., The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
iS’capital, if father severe/and-so is The'Jjay of the 'Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable-bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed/^ ,■ -tr
<' ; Prom Public Opinion,
“ A volumfe of remarlcably good verse, .‘/i Some of the metrical
iegeiids remind us of the.avild,chants that used;to,be sung at the.
meetings of the CarinibaVCjuT5,llsome ten,or fifteenyears,agpvMr/
Harrison, however/’ kriows where to’plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientjflc .mind like’liirican make jokes with sueceSS., — To
all who-wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a'
gift-hook,. we commend The Lazy Laysf -’±
f f From The Bookseller.
, An odd but most entertaining .-assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse arid others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungracefub- pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
Scientific men and matters arejn one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the woflt is published ‘a.d. 1877
(populaf-chronology); a.m. 5877 (Toi;quemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley) .’* We believe that our readers may derive a little’-
amusement from a perusal of the voltime.”
|H From The British Journal of Photography.
The Lazy.fays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse arid others in prose, sonje scientific, others social, but
all pf them excellent... . The Lazy lLays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spiu-e half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste/”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
How Hadji Ai Shacabac, "an atniable Turk, v^as photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in. a coyer of somewhat powerful design.”
From THe Photographic News.
Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
oonnection with photographic and other scientific literature, has.
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better,
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
In Mr. iW. ,H. Harrison’s'Zazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there.is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
loundation of'sofld sense.” 1‘''
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a-most welcome book—. ‘ How'Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’- will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”. I
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser. I |
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to he expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself. ’.. . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very/elaborately Bound in'clotli and gilt. /.*. A
gorgeous design upon the cover.. If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most desferving object iu a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
. . . Prom TheJjivefpoolDdity Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.-
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author, is imbued
with the true' spirit of humour/ and amuses all while offending
none.”' J • •
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, find
editor .of Thp Spiritualist..'.. Many of the humorous poems re-*
mind us of the Inqoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and sortie' of The Wobblejaw BallaUsi
would not have beeii unwbrthy Of Barham iriiriself. Some of,the/
shorter poems are ‘exquisite, and there pervade the wholc a rell--
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most reader^.”
• ■ From tiierdaily Northern Whig (Belfast). •; > ;•« -
“Thefinestthingfin.the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was,
Photographed.’ It’is an admirable addition to- our not .too1 eX-/
tensive comic literature. The-story is/one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is-intensely humorous./..
Those who -wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an ’atnufeing
, nature/ will find wfiat they want in The Lazy Lays.” * fiXf;
iFrom The, .
t Post,.
i .. v ». , . —- ,, Bristol Daily j
, f.vwk'ffcl-jt -'llv* I «*» i   ,, .. ..
_L.A curlqus^conpctTon^f / V'erses and nrosS^ssays of uftoqua
hS*** •' • .Theuerious and senymeAtal yerkos (Kelorig-ri), 'tfeb typo
of Mrs; Hemaris’s or L. E. L.’s productlsms.” ’'
| From The KensingtotpNeiQsf 1-
It .is.“ after the manner/of Barham, Hood; fferk-iTwain, or any
of those merry souls'Who do quite as much, good fintliettl'day and
generation as the authdfs of the most serious wbfks&T/K'Jjays
are 'always original, sometimes - serious, generallyi-.comic/ but
never vulgar.”
Frotri-The Malvern News.
t “It is in itself a work of itself—original./andpa cast of its
authorls mind. It is a’.work of. great I>oWer :iHra*beauty; full of
lively- imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, -aboundiiig in
tenderness and pathos^ sparkling withivit and huifipuri. arid one:
that may bn read many times over... The get-up oftne b$ok Is
.very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.;.
/“A ntimbbr of ctever'tflftt&fi&i ’feM'd pdemri*, arilon" the' lattoti
being a series of papers erititled The Wobblejaw 'Ballads, Which
1 appeared in the columns of this /paper a. short .time ago,
■ and which created such a furore'^ at the time/.’ [N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council oficiglly edited fj^attention of
\ the Mayor and Corporation of Folkeftotie ip’dhe-JbyiKhlSQuBs.irt. tlie
“ WobbUjaw Ballads,” but 'the mbnwfrs; assemble lauwed. qt .the
, matter, and proceeded to the next business: • Ttid MWyvr smdfthal he
did not mind them.\ ... “It contains some very choice fpoems;
and prose essays, isoound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original’’
design of no ordinary merit on the cover." ’gz&pf.
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
4 W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russeii-street, Loridon, W.C.
g . MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA, | ..jj
-* . OB '-didj hIK :
" . ANIMAL ^MAGNETISM, w.
'By the lateWu^iQB!Eabn^t^l.O.;,F!FL.S.Fi.,\Pro/esSprlqj"
: -im/i Chemustnj at Edinburgh -University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Graoe^t"'
; the Duke of: Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
- its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free •/.©ri five copies
post free for- 21s. - -Odpies -may -also rhe/i-hS/d hound in half¬
calf, Vith marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric.
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of :
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over ths Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—^Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
. CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of.
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the. Bystanders—Thought/’
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical IntuitioVri-Sy Apathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympatlrtes and Antipathies—iSistShde'bf a Pecflliar Force
orTnflitene&‘- < <; <' *rr»«r » •wtrrWjJ
■-^CHAPTER' IV :—Dirfct Clairvoyance of Lucid Vision, without
, the Eyck//Vision 'bf-Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distaniisi—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Ketfovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid'Prevision—Duration of Sleep.'etc.; Pre-
dieted—prediction of,Changesin the Health or State-of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents,'and of Events Affecting'’ Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—-Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech , and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and 6f Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Willby the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World. ,
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these-Act,
and .others in which they fip no.t Act—Phenomena Dgseribed-.—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination "'Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy ( of Animals — Snail” Telegraph
Founded on It// V ■, S - •
CHAPTER IX:-Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Hu pi an
Frame—Reseafches of Keichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmef, or with the Influence which Causes.the
Mesmeric Phenomena—O.dylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially .Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful. Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to, Natural Causes—Apparitions —Second Sight' is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Cdyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly -Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters’—Difficulties of the Sub'eet—Effects of Odyle—Sbmnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lurid -Vision—
Odylic Ejnanat(ons—Odyhc.Traces,followed up byLugid Subjects—,
Magic arid Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal.-and Mirror, etc., Induce'
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future. ‘
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt ih Mektneris’m'hy Meri'of ScienceT
—Due Limits of Scientific - Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions; of
Success ;in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition.to be,Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the 'Conscious:or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on ;Persous Jn> an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s .Experiments i With and Witliput, Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s, Experiments —.Cases — Corisci6us-«r, W'akpig
Clairvoyance, Produced by-; Passes/ or by /Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method —Cases—The-Magic Crystal Induces Waking .
Lucidity,, when Gazed,at—Cases-r-Magic Mirrof—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic/' - - • **
CHAPTER X III:—Production of the Mesmeric SleejteCases—
Eight-out of Nine Persons Recently Tried, by the Authpi^Tlu-own
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of-fhe
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep-TPRreno-Mesmerirtp. itt/.the Skfe®.
—Sympathic Olairyoy'auce in the S(eep—CasesZ-RorcOPtioh, of Tiine *
—Caseeii Sir, J. Franklin ; .Major Buelyey/§ Casjqf RMroyMon'/ ,/
.'CHAPTER XJV:—DRect Clair-yoyttnce/fUases—Travelfiji'g/Clair-
voyance—CaB'es/k-Singulac Visipns'ol,Mr.-D.—Letters 6f'XVaUleffy--
m,an,/with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Qt,UerjCase3..yi^,»f,. ’
.CHAPTER XV, ^Trance ExtasisCasesv//Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Pheiiomena*-Appari tiohs-rPredictions., *'/ / / /,
^CHAPTER XVJ ;—Cu>ltlyT Agency of Meanerisih—Concluding
Reffiarks, anil Summary.
Lpndon : W. H.. Hardpojj, SS^Great .ItusselLstreet, W.6.
Printed tor the Proprietor by’ REVEaiDGE & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Full woo’d’sRents, High Holborr
in the Parish of St. Andrew aboyb-Bar and St. Georg
i the Martyr, London, and published by/E. w. Allen, Av
* Maria-lane, London, E.O. - jppipnpj
