Hegisteheu as A NEWsrAPEB.
^YCSo^o^idS^ ^di^Kc!s<.
^ Itepp: jcmwS Ml| Spntualism m feat into.
No. 386. (Voii. XVI.—No. 3.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1880. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
JAMES IAITBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forees.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIG-HTS,
By LISETTE EAKLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription. Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
1 THE THEOSOPHIST, ~
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by U. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, G IR G A U M BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “The Proprietors of i The Theosophist* ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS EOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years'1 experience in Mesmerism.
l( Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together
the results of his own experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should be treated; and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to the progress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what yon like, hut persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate he credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Just arrived from America- A NEW BOOK by
EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
Its Inhabitants, Nature, and Philosophy.
Price 6s. 6d., post free. Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). Prom the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1801). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand,
Price 7s. fid. Tetjbneb and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT - IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (OxoN,).J’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges, Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narra-Cing how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and setting
forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAEDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C,
Crown 8vo, pp. 156, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J, P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . . His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resumi of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubneb and Co., Ludgate Hill.
82 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria Lane.
Just Published.
TEE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are, The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
S'he Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Jan. 16, 1880.
MR, C, E, WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily froth 12 till p. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o olock for reception of
friends. "
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE
LONDON
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NOBTHUMBEELAND STREET, STEAND
 LONDON. 
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR. W. EGLINTON, ~
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT,
 LONDON, S.W. 
ATOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 81,
JlV NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris,
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W,0.
4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-square.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
of the Fox Sisters, of New York Oity, U.S
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to io,' either at house of party or at Mrs
Kane’s rooms, must be made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\^J DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs^ Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The probable effects of
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G.F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals of the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.  c
IND AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, ,713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings- (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
$ xtf to ni to and ethics nf Spitiitnalism,
No. 386.—VOjLUJVIE SIXTEEN; NujVIBER THF(EE,
Xj O 1STD 01ST, FRIDAY, JANUARY 16tli, 1880.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST h Newspaper.
Established in 18G9.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRIS ON.
British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Yon Yay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
0. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of'Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,- Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq,, LL.D.
The Bev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Miss Florence Marryat.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H.M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
0. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A,
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. O. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Mi Inst. O.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D, H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal, Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Paris!, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Oorso, Borne; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiajat
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaad,
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; S.4, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-PhUosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application
r n H W SOUL 01 THINGS, by William Denton. In this
I extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas-
odon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also .sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street,London, W.O.
CABINET SEANCES.
The following letter appeared in last Monday’s
\ i Times:—
To the Editor of “ The Times.'"
) j Sib,—We think the following facts will be interesting to the
)! readers of the Times. Some time ago, being desirous of investi-
(j gating the truths of so-called Spiritualism, we were advised by
(! an eminent Spiritualist to attend the seances held at 38, Great
) j Russell-street (British National Association of Spiritualists).
) j We were assured that the seances conducted at that association
) | were the most genuine in England, and under strict test con-
cl ditions. On our first visit, the medium being tied by one of us
(j with great care, no manifestations followed. At the second visit
)| (January 2nd) one of us again tied the medium, but under the
)j directions of the chairman, who is officially connected with the
(j institution. A “ spirit ” soon appeared, which we were told was
\i “Marie,5’ and was represented to be that of a dead child twelve
)! years of age. She was dressed in white, her face covered with a
)| veil, and her arms and feet bare. We were surprised to dis-
i' j tinguish the appearance of a corset under the white robes, and
I her voice and general appearance gave us the idea that it was
I the medium herself, Mrs. Corner fnee Florrie Cook). On
| the third visit, January 9th, we were accompanied by a friend,
| Mr. John C. Fell, engineer, and editor of a scientific journal,
i of 23, Hood-lane, E.C., with his wife. The “spirit Marie”
I again appeared, and rendered our former suspicions almost
! certain by the audible sound of undressing within the cur-
/I tain, and by the “unspiritual” levity of her behaviour and
c j conversation. One of us by a sudden rush intercepted and
U gently held “the spirit,” while another dashed into the cur-
) I tains, and, drawing them aside, displayed the medium’s empty
) j chair with the knot slipped, her dress, stockings, and boots, and
( other discarded garments. There was sufficient light from a
( half-obscured candle for the captured “ spirit55 and all the above
) j objects to be plainly seen, which latter were handed round for
) | inspection and examined by those present. After a few minutes
j —to cover the confusion, we presume—the candle was extin-
(• guished by the official present, and we adjourned to the lower
) i room. All present, except the officials, one of whom took refuge
> I in abuse, entirely agreed with us and thanked us for exposing the
/! deception.
(I Now, sir, we leave general conclusions on Spiritualism to
(j others, but what we do claim to have proved is that in the first
) | society of Spiritualists in England, one of its best mediums has
I! been detected in personating the spirit herself. Not wishing to
| further occupy your valuable space, we shall be happy to give
| fuller information to any one interested in the cause of truth.
Geobge B,. Sitwell.
Carl von Buch.
j Witness to the signatures of Sir George B. Sitwell and Carl
von Buch, F.C.S.:—John C. Fell, M.I.M.E., Professor of
Mechanics.
I 23, Rood-lane, E.C., Jan. 10.
That an incident like the above should take place
was a matter of certainty, and merely a question of
| time. Stances of the kind have long been thoroughly
| condemned by the more experienced Spiritualists,
| and results like the above foretold, as in the following
| leading article published by us rather more than
; two months ago (November 28th, 1879):—
| A year or more ago, when it was discovered by experience
j that neatly all the public scandals brought down upon the move-
| ment in ISngland and America were due to cabinet manifestations#
those manifestations fell into disrepute, and were wisely almost
abandoned by our best mediums. Mr. Williams and Mr.
’!- Eglinton then discontinued cabinet seances to a large extent, and
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 16, 1880.
almost always obtained their materialisations in open circles, off
their own premises, and while their hands were held by the sitters
next them. Under such conditions they are frequently able to
obtain half-length materialised forms, which possess a power of
flotation.
Recently a tendency has been evinced here and there in London
and the provinces to return to some extent to cabinet seances,
and with correspondingly evil results, for complaints are again
flowing in to us in a private way as to the harm done to mediums
and to the movement by cabinet manifestations, which, as a rule,
convince new inquirers that what they see is imposture, and not
unfrequently violently shake the confidence of those Spiritualists
whose experience is limited.
There is reason for supposing that in the majority of cases,
although not in all, the forms are nothing but the mediums in a
state of trance, demonstrably freed from bonds by spirit power
whenever the character of the medium has been protected from
obloquy by himself and his friends, by the use at the beginning
of the seance of bonds from which he cannot free himself by
normal means. Lor scientific purposes, and in the presence only
of Spiritualists who understand the subject, there is no harm in
cabinet seances, which even then are useless unless held under
stringent test conditions; but they should never, even in a small
way, be brought before new inquirers, who should be introduced
only to phenomena of a more convincing character, so easily ob¬
tainable through the same mediums.
At least five out of every six of the public troubles to Spirit¬
ualism in America have been due to cabinet seances ; and after
the way in which they were condemned for general purposes
when the subject was fully considered in England, it is to be
hoped that the apparent temporary revival of them may be
checked. If attempted to be used for proselytising purposes
they usually succeed in planting a rooted antipathy to Spirit¬
ualism in the minds of new inquirers, and sooner or later get the
mediums and those who present them into trouble.
No words of warning could be plainer than those
just quoted. Again, in The Spiritualist of Dec. 19th,
1879, only four weeks ago, we quoted an American
case of the seizing of a medium dressed as a spirit,
and put the following preface to it in large type :—
Cabinet stances, except when held under stringent test condi¬
tions, and preferably for purposes of scientific research, have long
been condemned in England by those who know most about
them, because of the injury they otherwise do to the medium, to
the observers, and to the movement. Nine out of every ten of
the greater public troubles which have afflicted Spiritualism in
America have originated in cabinet seances, and if such had been
condemned years ago in that country the movement would have
now been in a much better position there. Good mediums can
obtain excellent materialisation phenomena while they are held
hand and foot in an open circle, off their own premises ; so why
should a cabinet be called into use ? The following paragraph is
going the rounds of the newspapers, and plenty more will follow,
in relation to persons who tolerate cabinet seances ', such seances
drive away from Spiritualism at least ten out of every eleven
sincere inquirers. They are of no use except to persons who
know much about spiritual manifestations.
Under the old regime, at 38, Great Russell-street,
form manifestations in public were discouraged, and
the sale of tickets for seances to persons not Spirit¬
ualists was not permitted ; but the system of
management has been altered in several ways of late,
and this week the whole movement is reaping some
of the fruits thereof.
Form manifestations have been investigated for
many years, and the general facts presented appear
to be that at first spirit hands and heads are
materialised,as at dark seances, while the mediums
are held hand and foot, but that in cabinets the pro¬
cess is carried a stage farther, and full-length forms
are produced. There seems to be no infraction of the
law of the conservation of energy, and no creation of
new matter; both the matter and the energy in these
forms probably come from the mediums, as indicated
by the circumstance that the forms are more or less
the duplicates of those of the mediums in external
appearance, whatever may be the internal governing
power, and that the vital energy of the medium is
gradually exhausted by a materialisation seance.
There being apparently no miracle in the shape
of the creation of new matter, as materialised
spirit hands, heads, and bodies grow heavier
it follows that those of the mediums grow lighter,
until at last there may be no medium at all inside
the sealed tapes, however securely they had been
applied, and nothing but a medium in a state of
trance is then in the freed form. At the beginning
of a seance this process is usually slow, occupying
ten or twenty minutes; in the middle, when the-
** power ” is at its highest, it takes place with mar¬
vellous rapidity. After a break in the middle of a
seance, we have sometimes seen Mrs. Corner taped
up in her chair and the knots sealed in a most
scientific manner by one or other of the investigators,
yet, during the very brief act of closing the door of
the cabinet, the inquirer has been grasped by a long
naked arm and hand coming from an aperture over
the door of the cabinet high above Mrs. Corner’s
head. That hand and arm must have formed
in one or two seconds, the time occupied in
shutting the medium from view in closing the
door. This would indicate that the interchange
of matter between a medium in bonds and a form
materialising outside them may take place with
amazing rapidity, and as a new living being cannot
be created by grasping one of these forms, there must
then be sudden union of the forms inside and outside
the cabinet. Thus, grasping one of the forms, and
finding it to be the medium, proves nothing. On the
other hand, if tests are badly applied, there may
sometimes be imposture on the part of the mediums;
and, which we believe to be much more common,
there may sometimes be imposture on the part of
the spirits, who perhaps find it easier to roll drapery
round an entranced medium than to produce a
genuine materialisation; the lower the spirit the
greater is its direct control over common matter, and
tnus, although there are plenty of good spirits,
some of the others are not at all above
committing an act like that just described. It
is very difficult to bring home proof of imposture
against a medium who possesses genuine powers,
because mediums are mesmeric sensitives, and at
times as unconscious what their bodies are doing, as
a boy on the platform of a mesmerist who is made to
gnaw a raw cabbage, because the lecturer tells him
that it is an apple. Were this not so there would
have been occasional prosecutions of fraudulent
mediums by Spiritualists, a line of action which
would greatly benefit the movement; but as two or
more intelligences can use the organism of a medium,
the difficulty is to fix the moral responsibility of any
particular act upon any particular individual.
Mrs. Corner has an old-established good character
among Spiritualists, which will tell greatly in her
favour among those who form opinions of the case
now under notice. It would be interesting to know
how she was tied last Friday, what was the condition
of the tapes after the seance, and what became of
the white drapery. Perhaps Mr. E. D. Rogers, who
Jan. 16, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
was chairman on the occasion, can give the public
some official information on this point.
These cabinet stances should be abandoned, except
for purposes of scientific research among persons who
understand the subject. They repel new invest!- I
gators from the movement; they injure the reputa- I
tions of the mediums ; and have done infinite harm j
to Spiritualism in America, where, perhaps, more {
than a dozen such cases have been witnessed as that ]
of last Friday.
After the foregoing comments had been put into
type, we received the following letter, which was j
posted on Wednesday to The Times and other news- j
papers. The greater portion of it was proposed for j
adoption at the Council meeting last Tuesday by Mr. j
Stainton-Moses. A few alterations were made by
the Council, after which the issuing of it to the press i
was authorised. During a part of the Council
meeting Sir George Sitwell and Mr. Yon Buch were !
present by invitation :—
THE CAPTURE OP “ A SPIRIT.”
To the Editor.
Sir,—I am directed by the Council of the British National {
Association of Spiritualists to address you in reference to a letter i
which has appeared in the public journals from Sir George Sitwell j
and Mr. Von Buch respecting a seance held on the 9th inst. at j
the rooms of the Association.
The letter of these gentlemen presents a substantially accurate |
account of what took place, except in the passages which attri- j
bute to members of the Council of the Association officially pre- i \
sent a desire to cloak the truth, and to afford facilities for |(
deception. i <
The Association, in seeking to fulfil the objects for which it j1
was established, viz., to assist inquirers into the truths of Spirit- i J
ualism, had thought that they would be rendering a public ser- j,
vice by affording to members and their friends, unable or un- j <
willing to devote the time needful for individual experiment, an j1
opportunity of witnessing under favourable circumstances some i |
of these phenomena; and they hoped that they had secured the j,
best and most trustworthy means of so doing in engaging the j i
services of Mrs. Corner, who, as Miss Florence Cook, was so j1
completely and exhaustively tested by Mr. Crookes, F.B..S., and |'
by many other competent investigators, including committees of i \
this Association, in recent experiments. i)
Mr. Crookes’s experiments extended over a series of years, and j <
were conducted in his own house in the presence of his own i'
family, under conditions that seemed to preclude deception. His | ]
precautions against error were, indeed, most elaborate, and his ] (
testimony as to what he proved is public property. I <
The Association was not unaware of the fact that the most ! *
intricate bonds do not prevent the liberation, by some means, of !
the medium. They knew, moreover—strange as the fact may j /
appear to many of your readers—that perfectly unconscious j {
persons can be, and frequently are, made to personate and act a j \
part wholly irrespective of their own volition, just as the mes- j)
meric sensitive obeys the suggestions of the mesmeriser. And I)
they did not underestimate the extreme difficulty of presenting [ /
to uninstructed persons satisfactory results. They, however, i(
deemed it their duty to make the attempt. i)
They can but regret that their well-intentioned efforts to this i)
end should, in this case, have had results so unsatisfactory as j)
those disclosed by the letter of Sir George Sitwell and Mr. Von j (
Buch. I am directed to add the expression of extreme concern j (
on the part of the Council of the Association if, in the heat of j >
the moment, any expression should have been used of which j)
those gentlemen consider that they have a right to complain.—I j <
am, yours respectfully, C. A. Burke, Secretary. j)
38, Qreat Russell-street, Jan. 13. ! (
In conclusion, Sir George Sitwell and Mr. Carl Yon <
Buch, who appear to have acted with moderation !)
throughout, may be deferentially asked what they <
mean by informing the editor of the Times and the i j
British public that they heard an “ audible sound.” (
If this expression had the approval of their literary
friend, the scientific engineer, one would expect to
find much in his newspaper about boiling wet water
with hot fire.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diame¬
trically opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communica -
tions cannot he returned; copies should he kept hy the writers. Preference is given
to letters which are not anonymous."]
-——'
ANAESTHETICS.
Sir,—Doubtless the artificial production of states resembling
natural or mesmeric trance would afford opportunities for im¬
portant research, but your suggestive article proposing the use
of anaesthetics for this purpose, and advising their experimental
employment, is liable to be seriously misunderstood. The effects
of chloroform, ether, &c., strikingly resemble certain forms of
spontaneous psychical conditions, involving, however, as you
justly indicate, the greatest risks, but unfortunately circum¬
stances attending the administration of nitrous oxide gas, as
ordinarily given, also entirely preclude its suggested use. Un¬
like other similar agents it must be without atmospheric admix¬
ture, pure, and as its physiological effect is attended with real
asphyxia, its exhibition can be but brief, and its direct effect
momentary. Instead of producing a “surplusage of oxygen in
the blood,” its action is quite the reverse, no free, active oxygen
being contained as in the atmospheric mixture ; and the condition
of impending suffocation produced, with but a brief abnormal
state, is too entirely different from that required to admit of
either comparison or similar investigation. A safe, practical
anaesthetic has yet to be found, though a small admixture o
pure oxygen with nitrous oxide, which must then be given under
increased atmospheric pressure, involving great experimenta
difficulties, permits of prolonged exhibition, with freedom from
certain embarrassments, and probably danger.
Walter H. Coepin.
Junior Athenaeum Club, Piccadilly, W., Jan. 10,1880.
HR. MONCK.
Sir,— I propose holding a seance with M. J. 0. Husk
(physical medium) on Wednesday evening, the 28th inst., in aid
of the fund now being raised for Dr. Monck. I shall not only
feel very pleased to see any of our mutual friends, but very glad
if those who find themselves unable to attend the seance will
kindly forward me such suras (however small they may be) as
they may desire to contribute.
The names, which have already appeared, of the contributors
to this fund—names both distinguished and honourable—should
sufficiently testify to the estimation placed upon Dr. Monck and
his most useful work of healthier days. It would not only be a
precious balm to a suffering man, who has always held the truth
nearest his heart, and laboured to establish it, but a protest
against the false imputations of his and their enemies, if mediums
all over the country would contribute to this fund in whatever
way open to them. Of those who may not be able to do other¬
wise, I would solicit contributions to my seance. They will thus
testify anew to that truth for which a brother has suffered,
and enter a powerful protest against the calumnies of his
persecutors.
The proceeds of the seance will be duly published.
C. Woodeorde.
90, Great Russell-street, London, January Sth, 1880.
Herr Christian Beimers, who has devoted much of his
time for a few years to the experimental and observational study
of Spiritualism, and who has given the results freely to the
public, is about to resume his profession as a teacher of music,
from which he has long been debarred by a nervous affliction.
His address is 6, Manor Villas, Richmond, Surrey.
“Passed to the Higher Life.”—Deaths have been
numerous of late in the ranks of veteran Spiritualists. The
Baroness Paoliua Kirkup writes to us from Leghorn that her hus¬
band, Baron Seymour Stoker-Kirkup, passed away on the third
of this month. He was one of the foremost Spiritualists on the
Continent, and his testimony as to the reality of certain of the
phenomena has been published occasionally in these pages.
Madame Gustave de Veh passed to the higher life a short time
ago, and M. de Veh has until now suffered severely from the
shock. Both have long been known as warm and true friends of
Spiritualism.
28
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 16, 1880.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP. ]
Last Monday night, at a well-attended meeting of j)
the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, j)
53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, London, Mr. W. Eglinton, H
the medium, read the following paper upon “Me-
diums and Mediumship,” The Roy. W. Miall pre- I
sided.
Me. Chaieman, Ladies, and Gentlemen,—In n
choosing the subject of “Mediums and Mediumship” u
for my paper, I had in mind my somewhat extended j j
experience, and felt more confident that I could
better give a decided opinion in regard to it than I j)
could to any thing else which pertains to our move- u
ment. But, independently of any opinion or expe- j)
rience of my own, the subject of “Mediumship and j(
Mediums” is one of the most important which could j)
be considered by the. movement at large; that j (
is to say, if we as Spiritualists desire to place j)
our cause on a footing which, by its sound con- K
stitution and basis, shall establish it above attacks j)
from the world at large. This I think all true Spirit- K
ualists desire, and it is why I say that medium- |)
ship is the most important subject the movement j(
should be called upon to consider, and that I ask you, j)
as a humble worker in your midst, to place the mediums j \
where they should be—in their right place in our I)
ranks. However much some so-called Spiritualists |\
may deny it, it is none the less a fact that a j/
medium stands in very much the same position to K
our cause as does the pilot to a ship in dangerous 1/
waters. The analogy, I think, is not so widely K
different, because, as the pilot is necessary to the j)
safety and success of our commerce by sea, so is a K
medium indispensable to the success of our cause. |)
Spiritualism may have a philosophy, and a beautiful !(
one it would be, no doubt, if rightly considered and j)
taught; but as no organisation has ever been made H
to place the philosophy in any favourable light before i)
the public, so as to gain adherents without the mani- K
festations, it is plain, then, that a medium is the j)
mainspring and support of the whole movement. j\
Mediumship of to-day is, perhaps, the influx of a |)
genius as great, if not greater, than was ever before . n
evidenced in the world’s history. It came to the j/
people of the nineteenth century as a light in the K
darkness, the herald of a new truth. Ido not feel, j)
in the light of all that has been accomplished during j(
the past thirty years, that I shall be considered at all j)
extravagant if I say that, thirty years ago, in the K
hands of a few unlettered and inexperiened people, j?
called mediums, depended the fate of a nation, if not H
a world’s progress. Simultaneously with the first j<
medial expression which heralded the advent of !j
modern Spiritualism, came a wave of advanced |
thought that has plainly and unmistakably marked ||
itself in every detail of modem life. Valuable dis- !<
coveries and liberal sentiment have followed every j
new development of mediumship in modern Spirit- u
ualism.
Who and what are mediums? Thirty years ago, I
in a little almost undiscovered town, the first tiny i
rap was heard, which, increasing in power, soon ])
became recognised in all quarters of the habitable K
globe, and led to the development of that peculiarly ?
offensive and modern body called “mediums.” These n
raps a man of mark has called, and very justly so, I
think, the “alphabet of immortality.” One would
have supposed the most intellectual people would
have been chosen to place so startling a truth before
the world in its best light. In many private circles
this was the case; but the spirit-world seemed to
choose as best adapted to do this work, those who
were born in the humble sphere of life, probably
knowing that in the age in which we live self-
sacrifice would be so small on the part of those who
have material means at their command, that those
only without adequate opportunities of keeping
themselves were chosen for the spirits’ mission.
And how were these mediums and their
mediumship received when their marvellous power
first became known to the world ? The people
were as unreasonable in their treatment of them as
they were afterwards unjust. Mediums were simply
perfection—good, wise, and moral: all words spoken
through them being infallible, and, for the time
being, they were worshipped. Every fault which
they evinced was credited to bad spirits, and the
good traits accounted for by the presence of good
guardians ! In those days the perfection of belief in
both spirits and mediums may be best shown by the
fact that the sitters at one circle were actually sent
for skunk’s grease to better the manifestations ! and
I have it on good authority that this whimsical
nonsense was actually complied with. Any one know¬
ing anything of skunks and spiritual conditions, will
best understand how the two could agree. While
this is very ridiculous, have we not examples corre¬
spondingly ridiculous inside the Catholic Church ?
Far be it from me to underrate the religious devotion
and enthusiasm of any class of religionists; but to those
who believe in works instead of words, and example
more than precept, the wearing of hair shirts,
pebbles in one’s stocking, or the hair cut so close to
one’s head that it is absolutely painful, is quite as
nonsensical as being sent by spirits to search
for skunk’s grease as an auxiliary to spiritual
manifestations. As time rolled on, and as people
investigated more clearly, they fortunately found
out their mistake. As one extreme always follows
another, the mediums, instead of remaining on a
pedestal, were correspondingly reduced. The tide
then turned against them. From being wholesale
and perfect believers in all purporting to come from
the spiritual word, the majority of Spiritualists turned
into critical investigators, and received every word
and manifestation with suspicion. So strongly was
this marked, that for a medium to sit in a circle in
those days was simply impossible. Seeds of doubt
and distrust always bring forth unripe fruit. In the
midst of this atmosphere, what wonder that mediums,
instead of reaching the position for which they were
at first destined, took their naturally appointed place
with the rest of human beings ; for be it understood
that mediums do eat and drink. Unfortunately, on
New Year’s Day the same material requirements of
mediums are evidenced, and grocers and bakers have
to be patronised by them as well as by the rest of
God’s children. Between these two extremes, what
position do mediums occupy at the present day ?
Unfortunately, the aim of many, and perhaps justly
so, is to use the great gift which has been placed in
JAN. 16, 1880.:
THE SPIRITUALIST.
$9
their keeping for personal glory and gain. It is only
in a very small minority of cases that a man or a
woman steps out into the world, and sacrifices
himself to use his best gifts for the sake
of the people in it. Possibly the reason may
be that the mediums have not yet fully realised
the real divinity of their mission; and possibly it is
that instances of self-sacrifice and self-surrender have
been too rare among all the artists of the world to
have been readily imitated. Have any of our great
men gone into the world as our mediums have done,
without. money and without price ? . . . . Perhaps
the greatest misfortune which could have come to
Spiritualists, and certainly to mediums, is the
apparent dishonesty pervading their ranks. Far be
it from me to deny or gloss over the real dishonesty
of many professing to be mediums, but lacking the
real genius; and others possessing the real genius,
but lacking the moral courage to be at all times, and
at whatever sacrifice, true to the high gifts entrusted
to their keeping. Another charge, and perhaps a just
one, reflects upon the moral character and standing
of mediums. Again I am obliged to say that in
some instances this may be true. Perhaps there is
one item of credit to be attached to mediums in the
midst of all this blame, and that is that their faults,
although they may be many, are upon the surface.
As a class, they either lack the policy or the hypo¬
crisy to conceal their sins : consequently, standing as
they do with all their weaknesses fully revealed, they
present a much more hideous appearance in society
than nlany worse men, who are simply content with
presenting a moral exterior, while the inner fabric of
their moral nature may be pierced with many rents.
Granted the assumption that mediums, as a class, are
more immoral than any other class in society, are
there not many reasons why they should be so, aside
from the theory of natural depravity ? In the first
place, mediums are subjected to temptations of a
quantity and quality that the unmediumistic can
never conceive ; secondly, by nature they are as open
to temptation as to spiritual impressions, and, as a
result, the fall of mediums is due more to exterior
conditions than to any interior weakness. “ But
how/’.asks the intelligent Spiritualist, “can the fre¬
quent exposures among even our best mediums be
accounted for ? In the religious world, or in any ofher
movement outside Spiritualism, if a man is once
found deceiving he is considered for ever after un¬
trustworthy. Why should not the same rule apply
to mediums ? ” Genuine impostures are as true as
genuine manifestations. Now why is all this ? Of
course mediums are not infallible. There was a
Judas among the olden twelve, and it is not unlikely
that that Judas is among the apostles of the new
faith. But what is the attitude of Spiritualists
towards mediums ? What have the}7', as a body,
done to remedy this existing evil? In other move¬
ments each representative of art, science, or religion
has previously been trained, educated, and qualified
for the position he has assumed or occupies. Every
clergyman is first tutored for his future office.
Institutions of education to promote the propa¬
gation of every subject pertaining to the wel¬
fare of the human race are open tor his instruc¬
tion, and, when properly qualified, his work is
concisely marked out for him, and representa¬
tive men and women stand as his supporters. How
is it with mediums ? A person, perhaps entirely
unlettered and inexperienced, is chosen from the
ranks of the people to occupy a far greater position of
trust and honour than that occupied by any clergy¬
man of the present day ; and, instead of having a
class of representative men and women to support
and assist him, the ordinary medium is surrounded
by a class of marvel-hunters, with now and then one
or two true and faithful souls, from whom alone he
derives courage and support. Mediumship has never
yet been placed upon its merits, neither have
mediums ever occupied their true position, either in
society or among Spiritualists.
Now, the medium is investigated instead of his
mediumship, and the strength of ropes, tapes, and
sealing - wax is tested instead of the spirits.
Mediums of to-day are the inspired children of the
movement ; and until they have better parents,
truer guardians, and nobler examples placed before
them, the great human cry of humbug, imposture,
and immorality among mediums will never be
silenced. The majority of Spiritualists now look
upon mediums more as “ thieves of the night,"
ordinary jugglers, and people whose only intent is
to deceive and delude, when as children, subject
only to the same weaknesses as ordinary mortals,
their real desire is, to the best of their ability, to
express or develop a gift, the magnitude and power
of which they themselves as yet neither understand
nor appreciate. Not until Spiritualists, as Spirit¬
ualists, look upon mediumship as the only channel
through which they can obtain certain proof of a
continued and higher existence, and not until they
regard mediums, frail, weak, and human as they are,
as the only instruments through which God at'
present can reveal His will unto the people, will the
proper attitude be manifested by Spiritualists
towards them, and the fruitful results of mediumship
be revealed. Every medium should understand that
the cause is always first, and he afterward. He
should understand the duties of his position so well
that it is neither necessary nor possible for a sceptic
to dictate to him what the spirits shall do through his
mediumship, or how they are to do it.
Perhaps at this juncture it may not be inoppor¬
tune for me to cite a little personal experience that
will be at once laughable and possibly valuable. I
am presented to a company as a medium, and I am
kindly asked by the hostess how I should best like to
sit. Should there by chance be sceptics in the room,
it is at once assumed that the persons of my choice,
whom I select to sit next me, are my confederates;
therefore no other course is left me but to answer the
question by “ Wherever you will." Naturally the
person to whom I give a stance is pleased to put me
between the two greatest sceptics in the room. The
places are occupied, and then comes an injunction
from the host or hostess to the two sceptics to be
“ sure that you hold the medium’s hands tightly.”
After he has been made as uncomfortable as human
ingenuity can possibly devise, the seance begins.
The initiative proceedings are perhaps a few raps.
The hostess cries out, r Joey, are you here ?” Three
raps, signifying “yes.” “Are we going to have a
30
THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 16, 1880.
good stance T’ Two raps—the dubious “ Don’t know.”
“ Oh, dear ! there must be some bad spirit present—
that is never * Joey !’ ” Three raps follow this asser¬
tion, assuring the hostess and the company present
that it is really “ Joey,” and unassisted by any evil
spirits. The raps cease, and the deep, sonorous voice
of “Ernest” comes for a moment in the midst of
this, saying, “ Good evening, friends ; God bless you
all!” Of course it is not expected that strangers to
“ Ernest,” or even those knowing him but little, can
understand how much of peace and truth and hearty
good will is conveyed in his simple “God bless
you!” But I, who have so loug known his un¬
failing fidelity, am at once assured that whatever the
people may be at this side of the stance, the work¬
men in the spiritual seance are] well governed and
truly directed. The seance proceeds; the sceptics
clutch harder, probably unconscious that mediums
are made of ordinary flesh and blood, and one asks,
“ Is there any spirit here who can tell me how many
shillings I have in my pocket ?” “ Joey’s ” voice
instantly replies, “ No; we are not particularly inte-
reisted in your financial affairs.” “ Well, then,”
replies the sitter, “ perhaps you can tell me where I
bought my umbrella?” Alas for poor, ignorant
“Joey,” he does not even know that! To lengthen
these details would simply be to give a complete
history of the seance, lasting, perhaps, for two hours.
Part of the sitters at the close vote it a success, part
a failure, and the whole combined means, “ I wonder
why exalted spirits never manifest at dark seances ?”
Could their eyes have been spiritually opened, as
mine were during the whole of the seance, they would
have seen that high and exalted spirits felt that they
had better business to do than telling the number of
shillings in a man’s pocket, or finding out where he
bought his umbrella. Doubt and suspicion thrown upon
a medium are the surest means of prevention of power¬
ful spiritual manifestations. Every medium should
be surrounded by an influence of trust, respect, and
appreciation, not because he is a medium, but that
all the elements which attract undeveloped influences
may be entirely eliminated from the stance room,
and that in higher influences the medium may find
not only rest and support, but a proper understand¬
ing of his medial strength, and the desires of his
controls. Nothing is more important than that the
medium should be, for the time being, master of the
situation, for it is as impossible for the uninitiated
to impose secure conditions, by which the best mani¬
festations may be obtained, as for a street minstrel to
have instructed Mendelssohn in music. Under these
conditions, it is quite possible that fewer converts
will be made to Spiritualism; but it is equally true
that those so convinced will be more trustworthy,
more intelligent, and more beneficial to.the cause.
And here let me tell you of a stance held under
the above-mentioned higher conditions—one of the
most beautiful it has ever been my lot either to
induce or attend. It was on New Year’s Eve, 1878,
and the meeting took place at the house of Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory. There were eight or ten
persons present, some of whom I see here to-night.
After the usual dark stance manifestations, which
upon this occasion were more powerful and in¬
structive than usual, I entered the cabinet. I
|| wish to strongly impress upon your minds that
| the stance which I am now relating was a most
unusual one, due, I firmly believe, to the fact of my
j having given many stances at the same house, and
| to the friendship, trust, and appreciation with which
every sitter regarded me. Of course, what occurred
! during the materialisations was related to me after-
I wards by the sitters present, as, unfortunately, during
;J these manifestations I am kept in a deep trance,
j) The gas was turned on until the room was pervaded
Rj by a dim, religious light, when slowly the curtains
i)| opened, and from the cabinet came one dearly loved,
\j long known, and always treasured by the hostess,
|) | Lady G , widow of the late Field Marshal Sir .
j\j The form was no dummy dressed up to represent
j)| life, nor Mr. Eglinton transfigured, which will be
best evidenced by Mrs. Gregory’s own words :—
“ I have no hesitation in giving my testimony to
Kj the wonderful power and satisfactory nature of your
/ mediumship. Indeed, I, personally, have never seen
Kj it surpassed. I, with many others, have scrutinised
j)j it carefully when it occurred in my house, and we
(1 have all been satisfied with its truth. Seven different
>| times my friend Lady G appeared to me fully
yj materialised, when you were lying apparently in a
!>j trance on my sofa in the drawing-room, visible to five
j or six of my friends who were with me at the
time. Your sincere friend, LiSETTE Makeougall
j Gregory.”
What could be more beautifully impressive than
this midnight scene on New Year's night ? The
spirit, after requesting cake and wine to be brought,
Ij tasted the cake, touched the wine, and then handed
| it to each of the sitters, that they might partake of
j this holy communion with her. After this the
j persons present were requested to kneel, and, in their
j midst, the spirit knelt also, and pouring forth a
j solemn invocation, asked that Almighty God would
j bless each friend present, and make their New Year
! one long to be remembered, and then vanished,
j WThen the influence had left me, and I found myself
fully conscious, I was persuaded the stance had been
a failure, so rested and peaceful wras my condition;
j and not until I saw the tear-wet eyes of my friends,
| and received their grateful messages of thanks, did I
fully understand this memorable event. The majority
of Spiritualists of to-day are defending the world
j against mediums, rather than supporting mediums
j against the world. I would not have you for one
j moment suppose that I would advocate the conceal-
n I ment of dishonesty, or the protection of mediums
(I when they are really wrong ; but I would advocate
I that every Spiritualist should be perfectly certain
j that the medium is wrong before he is publicly
>j denounced and sent out into the world branded
(j and disgraced. The point I wish to impress
j)j upon your minds is that without mediums you
(I are without Spiritualism, and until the proper
j)j relationship is established between mediums and
(j Spiritualists, Spiritualism will make no progress,
j j and sink into a dark state from which nothing but
Rj the truest mediumship can rescue it. The suffering
j j of any particular medium is of very small import-
j ance. Every new truth has had its martyrs. Spirit-
|)j ualism must have its; but I would that some method
Rj could be devised whereby mediums would suffer as
31
Jan. 16, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
little as possible, and the world learn to the fullest
extent the depth and power of the truth and beauty
of our philosophy.
My experience has been varied and extensive. I
know something of the pain and persecution, and a
little of the joy, which good, true work always brings
to the labourer in an unpopular cause; and knowing
all this, the greatest pain I experience is in feeling
that through an improper or partial understand¬
ing, the true merits of mediumship, and the proper
relationship to be sustained between mediums and
Spiritualists, the best work of the century should be
dimmed and retarded. As the nineteenth century is
the century of inventions, so is the twentieth destined
to be a century of seers; and the destiny of those
seers is, to a large extent, in the keeping of modem
Spiritualists and Spiritualism.
“ God sends His teachers into every clime,
To every race and every class of men.”
The mediums of the nineteenth century are essen¬
tially its teachers ; and if I have succeeded in showing
as plainly as possible that the present relations
between mediums and Spiritualists are to a large
extent wrong, I feel that you will all take to heart
the injunction of Plutarch that “the moment you
have discovered a wrong, it is the time to mend it.”
After the reading of this paper several speakers addressed the
meeting. The chairman, the Rev. W. Miall, said that Mr.
Eglinton had asserted the great superiority of mediums to
parsons ; as he (Mr. Miall) was a kind of parson he felt sensitive
on the point, and thought that Mr. Eglinton might have quoted
the text, “ I magnify mine office.” Such were the words of St.
Paul. Mr. Eglinton would have done quite right to quote them.
—Mr. Emms thought that more seances in the light would be of
great advantage to the movement; and Mr. C. E. Williams that
new mediums should be developed for light seances.
VISIONS IN CRYSTALS.
To the Editor ofti The Spiritualist.”
Thinking this would be of some interest to your
readers I enclose it to you. Mary J. Billing.
An adept of Cagliostro consulted by Madame
Josephine de Beauharnois, in the prison of Des
Carmes, as to the fate of her husband.
Terror and tyranny usurping more and more the
place of liberty, the Viscount de Beauharnois was
exiled to a distance of some twenty leagues beyond
the frontier, and retired to Ferte Imbault of the
Beauharnois estate.
Assailed in his retreat by the calumnious denun¬
ciations of his enemies, he was arrested and trans¬
ferred to Paris, where he was confined in the prison
of Des Carmes.
Arrested at the same time as her husband, sepa¬
rated from her two children, Madame de Beauhar¬
nois awaited death in tearful anxiety.
Having no news of the unfortunate general,
Josephine agreed to the proposition of a gaoler that
she should consult an adept of Cagliostro, the most
celebrated representative of la secte Balsamite.
Misfortune had rendered her superstitious, and
she would have given all in the world to know the
fate reserved for her husband.
Cagliostro’s adept was Mons. Duvivier, detained in
the prison of Des Carmes. The process pursued by
the secte Balsamite consisted in placing a pupil or
Ij girl, that is to say, a young girl at the age of inno-
| cence, before a crystal vase filled with pure water.
| By the imposition of the hands of the operator, or
! Grand Cophtd, she acquired the faculty of entering
| into communication with the genii of the middle
I region (in other words, spirits), and saw in the water
all which could interest the person in the name of
| whom the divinatory operation was performed.
Mons. Duvivier was very willing to operate in the
)j name of Madame de Beauharnois, whose husband
u had appeared the previous evening before the revo-
;j lutionary tribunal. It was in the middle of the
(j night. A little girl in the gaol was awakened, and
)j for some small payment the father of the child made
(j all the necessary preparations. A table was laid out
)j wdth a decanter of water, and three lighted candles
(I disposed in the form of a triangle.
The Grand Cophtd held his hands on the head of
the pupil, who had her eyes fixed upon the decanter.
)j After remaining for some few minutes in profound
(j meditation, during which he concentrated his
)j thoughts upon the Viscount de Beauharnois, Mons.
\ | Duvivier said to the young girl: “ See ! ”
There was profound silence. The Grand Cophte
yj asked of the girl: “ What do you see ? ” The young
girl replied, with a sorrowful expression: “I see in
j a little room a young man who sleeps alongside of a
man who writes upon a paper.” “Can you read?”
Vi “ Oh, no, citizen.” “And what next?” “Ah! ah!
|]i there he is cutting off his hair, and he puts it in
|| a paper.” “ The one who sleeps ? ” “Certainly not;
/| he who wrote just now. Now he writes on the paper
\i where he has placed the hair. He opens a little red
/| portfolio; he counts the bills therein; he rises; he
| goes very softly.” “How, very softly? Until this
moment you have not been able to hear any noise ? ”
\| “Very softly, because he has the art of walking on
)j the tips of his toes.” “But what did he do with the
)j portfolio?” “He placed it in the pocket of a coat
(j belonging to the man who sleeps.” “ Of what colour
)j is the coat?” “I do not know the name of that
( colour, but it is lined with blue silk, with bright
)j buttons.” “ That is enough.”
The Grande Cophtd here breathed upon the fore-
} head of the girl, and dismissed her. Then turning
)| to his assistants, “General de Beauharnois still
V! exists,” said he ; “but all these dispositions presage
(| an approaching execution. It is of no use announc-
) | ing this to his poor wife; she will learn it all too
<| speedily. I will tell her simply that her husband
)| still lived two hours after midnight.”
Monsieur de Beauharnois was guillotined on the
)j 20th of July, 1794, and several days later Josephine
(j showed her companions in captivity a letter which her
|| husband had written on the night preceding his death.
She was at first inconsolable ; but after a time,'
| thanks to the friendship of two women imprisoned
I with her, she began to be reconciled to life again.
One of these ladies was Madame Aiguillon, of
(j illustrious name; the other was the beautiful Thdrbsa
)j Cabarrus (Madame Tallien).
After her confinement for eighteen months in the
)l prison of Des Carmes, Madame de Beauharnois fell
(j seriously ill when her sentence of death was notified
)| to her; but the 9th of August (Thermidor) saw her
Si happily released from her sufferings.
32 THE SPIRITUALIST.: Jan. 10, 1880.
AN ANTIQUABY’S GHOST STOBY.*
BY AUaiJSTUS JESSOP, D.D.
Little more than two months have passed since j |
my own personal experience of mental phenomena |\|
was strikingly enlarged by the occurrence with which [) j
the following narrative deals. Yet already I find ill
that round the original story there has gathered a [
surprising accumulation of the mythical element, and | (j
that I myself am in danger of becoming a hero of jjj
romance in more senses than one. As I object to be j]
looked upon as a kind of medium to whom super- |)|
natural visitations are vouchsafed, and, on the other | (j
hand, do not wish to be set down as a crazy dreamer ! j j
whose disorganised nervous system renders him Kj
abnormally liable to fantastic delusions, I have j(j
yielded to the earnest request of some ■who have nj
begged me to make public the following paper. I |)|
am told that there are those who busy themselves in m
Collecting similar stories, and if it be so, it is better j) j
they should hear the facts from me than after they m
have passed through other channels. The narrative |)|
was written, at the request of a friend, not many days | J j
after the event, when all the circumstances were |)|
fresh in my recollection.
On the 10th of October, 1879,1 drove over from J
Norwich to Mannington Hall to spend the night at nj
Lord Orford’s. Though I was in perfect health and (I
high spirits, it is fair to state that, for some weeks I > j
previously, I had had a great deal to think about, j < j
some little anxiety, and some considerable mental j
strain of one kind or another. I was not, however, j (j
conscious of anything approaching weariness, irri- jjj
tability, or “ fag.” I arrived at 4 p.m., and was j (I
engaged in’pleasant and animated conversation till it j
was time to dress for dinner. We dined at seven ; j(j
our party numbered six persons. Of these, four, at j j
least, had been great travellers. I myself was rather ! j j
a listener; the talk was general and discursive, and j
amused and interested me greatly. Not for a single j(!
moment did it turn upon the supernatural; it was jjj
chiefly concerned with questions of art and the ex- j \ j
periences of men who had seen a great deal of the j j j
world, and could describe intelligently what they had jjj
seen, and comment upon it suggestively. I have jjj
very rarely been at a more pleasant party. After jjl
dinner we played a rubber. We “left off as we jjj
began,” and as two of the guests had some distance to jjj
drive we broke up at half-past ten. jjj
The main object of my going over to Mannington jj
was to examine and take notes upon some very rare jj!
books in Lord Orford’s library, which I had been jji
anxiously wishing to get a sight of for some years, j j!
but had never been fortunate enough to meet with jjj
up to this time. I asked leave to sifc up for some hours I j j
and make transcripts. His lordship at first wished me jjj
to let his valet remain in attendance to see all lights jj!
put out, but as this would have embarrassed me jjj
and compelled me to go to bed earlier than I wished, j j
and as it seemed likely that I should be occupied till j j i
two of three in the morning, it was agreed that I j j j
should be'left to my own devices and the servants ij
should be allowed to retire. By eleven o’clock I was ijj
the only person downstairs, and I was very soon j
busily at work and absorbed in my occupation.
* We quote this narrative from last week’s Ed. of & t)i
The room in which I was writing is a large one,
with a huge fireplace and a grand old chimney; and
it is needless to say that it is furnished with every
comfort and. luxury. The library opens into this
room, and I had to pass out from where I was sitting
into this library and get upon a chair to reach the
volumes I wanted to examine. There were six small
volumes in all. I took them down and placed them
at my right hand in a little pile, and set to work—
sometimes reading, sometimes writing. As I finished
with a book I placed it in front of me. There were
four silver candlesticks upon the table, the candles all
burning, and, as I am a chilly person, I sat
myself at one corner of the table with the fire
at my left, and at intervals, as I had finished
with a book, I rose, knocked the fire together,
and stood up to warm my feet. I continued in
this way at my task till nearly one o’clock. I had
got on better than I expected, and I had only one
more book to occupy me. I rose, wound up my
watch, and opened a bottle of seltzer water, and I
remember thinking to myself that I should get to
bed by two after all. I set to work at the last little
book. I had been engaged upon it about half an
hour, and was just beginning to think that my work
was drawing to a close, when, as I was actually
writing, I saw a large white hand within a foot of
my elbow. Turning my head, there sat a figure of a
somewhat large man, with his back to the fire,
bending slightly over the table, and apparently
examining the pile of books that I had been at work
upon. The man’s face was turned away from me,
but I saw his closely-cut reddish-brown hair, his ear
and shaved cheek, the eyebrow, the corner of the
right eye, the side of the forehead, and the large high
cheek-bone. He was dressed in what I can only
describe as a kind of ecclesiastical habit of thick
corded silk, or some such material, close up to
the throat, and a narrow rim or edging, of about
an inch broad, of satin or velvet serving as a
stand-up collar, and fitting close to the chin.
The right hand; which had first attracted my
attention, was clasping, without any great pressure,
the left hand ; both hands were in perfect repose, and
the large blue veins of the right hand were con¬
spicuous. I remember thinking that the hand was
like the hand of Velasquez’s magnificent “ Dead
Night” in the National Gallery. I looked at my
visitor for some seconds, and was perfectly sure that
he was not a reality. A thousand thoughts came
crowding upon me, but not the least feeling of alarm,
or even uneasiness; curiosity and a strong interest
were uppermost. For an instant I felt eager to make
a sketch of my friend, and I looked at a tray on my
right for a pencil; then I thought, “ Upstairs I have
a sketch-book—-shall I fetch it ? ” There he sat, and
I was fascinated ; afraid, not of his staying, but lest
he should go. Stopping in my writing, I lifted my
left hand from the paper, stretched it out to the pile
of books, and moved the top one. I cannot explain
why I did this—my arm passed in front of the figure,
and it vanished. I was simply disappointed, and
nothing more. I went on with my writing as if
nothing had happened, perhaps for another five
minutes, and I had actually got to the last few words
of what I had determined to extract, when the figure
33
Jan. 16, 1880. THE SPIUI
appeared again, exactly in the same place and atti¬
tude as before. I saw the hands close to my own: I
turned my head again, to examine him more closely,
and I was framing a sentence to address to him,
when I discovered that I did not dare to speak. I
was afraid of the sound of my own voice. There
he sat, and there sat I. I turned my head again to j
my work, and finished writing the two or three words !
I still had to write. The paper and my notes are at
this moment before me, and exhibit not the slightest j
tremor or nervousness. I could point out the words |
I was writing when the phantom came and when he
disappeared. Having finished my task, I shut the
book and threw it on the table; it made a slight
noise as it fell—the figure vanished.
Throwing myself back in my chair, I sat for some
seconds looking at the fire with a curious mixture of
feeling, and I remember wondering whether my
friend would come again, and if he did whether he
would hide the fire from me. Then first there stole
upon me a dread and a suspicion that I was begin¬
ning to lose my nerve. I remember yawning ; then j
I rose, lit my bedroom candle, took my books into
the inner library, mounted the chair as before, and
replaced five of the volumes; the sixth I brought
back and laid upon the table where I had been
writing when the phantom did me the honour to
appear to me. By this time I had lost all sense of
uneasiness. I blew out the four candles and marched
off to bed, where I slept the sleep of the -just or the
guilty ; I know not which, but I slept very soundly.
This is a simple and unvarnished narrative of
facts. Explanation, theory, or inference I leave to
others.
HOW BEST TO BECOME A THEOSOPHIST.*
BY GEORGE WYLD, M.D.
Brothers and Sisters Theosophists,—In ad¬
dressing you I feel deeply impressed with the
importance of the question I now put to you—How
best to become a theosophist ?
As a preliminary observation, I need scarcely
remind you that all who. aspire to become theo¬
sophists pledge themselves to live a pure, simple,
temperate, and self-denying life, and with brotherly
and sisterly love.
Theosophy means the science of the wisdom of
God. But who is there among us who shall presume
to dogmatise on a science beyond the comprehension
of the human mind ? for “ who can by searching find
out God ? or who can find out the Almighty unto
perfection ?”
All we can do is to conceive in'bur minds an idea
in harmony with our highest inspirations, and in
doing so we shall accept of the axiom of the initiated
King of Israel, when he said, “ The awe of God is
the beginning of wisdom.”
Let us here recall the definition of our position as
laid down in the rules of our society, which read
thus :—
“The British Theosophical Society is Founded
for the purpose of discovering the nature and powers
of the human soul and spirit by investigation and
experiment.
* Presidential address delivered before the British Theosophioal Society,
January 6th, 1880.
U A L I S T.
“ Our object is to increase the amount of human
health, happiness, knowledge, wisdom, and goodness;
and we pledge ourselves, to the best of our powers, to
live a life of truth, temperance, purity, and brotherly
love.
“We believe in a great first intelligent Cause,
and in the Divine sonship of the spirit of man, and
hence in the immortality of that spirit, and in the
universal brotherhood of the human race.”
This is truly a holy and sublime programme, and
the question which should present itself for our con¬
tinual consideration is, “ How best shall we carry out
these rules, and thus become theosophists ? ”
In endeavouring to arrive at the best method, I
shall do my best to present all sides of the question
with fairness and submission ; and if I fail to point
out the truest method, or, in your opinion, under-
estirnate any method, or over-estimate any other
method, it will be for you to exercise your reason,
and in a brotherly and sisterly way point out the
defects. This, I beg to say once for all, that you
cannot confer a greater favour than by, now and at
all times, pointing out any defect in manner, matter,
or thought, which you may discover in your presi¬
dent ; and if you promise to show me this kindness,
I will now frankly promise in return to render you
a like service, for thus we shall “ bear each other’s
infirmities,” and thus fulfil one of the highest laws.
I feel how unworthy I am to occupy the position
you have placed me in, but in all I say I shall
endeavour to speak in the spirit so sublimely
expressed by one of the most intensely true and
loving of men, himself apparently an initiate, and
at least illuminated with that knowledge without'
which there can be no comprehension of theosophy—
(j the triune nature of man as body, soul, and spirit.
)j This Paul of Tarsus says, when writing to those of
\ j his society then residing in the city of Corinth :—
“ Though I speak with the tongues of men and
j | angels and have not charity, I am become as sounding
/ j brass and a tinkling cymbal; and although I have the
(j gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and
) j all knowledge, and although I have all faith, so that
(I I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I
am nothing; and although I give all my goods to
(| feed the poor, and although I give my body to be
11 burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing.”
This magnificent picture of charity or love cannot
j i be surpassed in nobleness of expression, and I submit
i! that our society could not do better than write it up
' as our initiatory rule of life.
We all, I understand, fully realise the trinity in man
[ of body, soul, and spirit; and thus it is that our rules
'I indicate that we shall do our best to increase our
J | bodily health, our souls’ strength and purity, and the
11 exaltation of the spirit; and we all, I think, thus
11 understand that the central essence of all true religion
J is one and identical, namely, £0 evoke the hidden
\ spiritual centre of the soul, and unite that with God.
We see this, and thus also we are able to see, that
i just in proportion as we descend from this sublime
standpoint, and attempt to formulate our belief by
j symbols, or by a ritual, we encounter the danger of
1 more or less worshipping the creature in the place of
| the Creator; and of descending into idolatry, dogma-
i tism, sectarianism, and intolerance.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
34
Jan. 16, L880.
This, I think, all theosophists will admit; and yet u
the human mind, so long at least as it is united to \\
the body, demands something more tangible, and ||
more lovable, and more capable of application to I)
daily life than is found in the sublime but abstract | \
and incomprehensible idea of a central spiritual j/
essence. n
Hence religion, although its essential meaning is |)
religio, to rebind, that is, to rebind the spirit of man \\
with the Spirit of God, has, in harmony with human 1/
nature, been formulated as the Spirit of the Son j \
seeking the Spirit of the Father. And thus in all ||
nations, and in all ages of the world, religion has j\
attempted to concrete itself, and in doing so, and in |>
attempting to realise the Divine Mind, has worshipped j \
that idea as exhibited in or by the advent from time !)
to time of Avatars, or manifestations of the Logos
or Wisdom, or Spirit of God, in Divine and miraculous j)
men. j)
Hence we have Gautama Buddha in the East and ft
Jesus Christ in the West, who, esoterically considered, j)
may be said to teach the one great law of religion, j<
namely, that man can only know the Divine by j>
evoking the gift of God, the Divine light which lies k
latent within him, and by which light only he can n
know his Father, and thus return to the bosom of l(
his God.
But although it may in a sense be said that these \l
two esoterically considered are one, yet each would i>
seem to have been moulded in body, soul, and spirit, K
in harmony with the physical aspects of Nature, as j)
existing on that part of our planet on which he K
appeared. j/
In the East we find a hot atmosphere, a luxurious If
vegetation, and stupendous mountains ; and the form j /
the religion takes is that of power, subtlety, con- |v
templation, stillness, repose, rest, sleep, and entrance- j/
ment; and the ascetic life, with its diet of fruits, l (
vegetables, and cereals, and its soul-power, entrance- !/
ment, and magic. K
In the,West, on the other hand, we find a more
temperate dim ate and a more active life—a bigger \(
brain and a manifestation of a wider range of the j?
intellectual and practical life ; and while we find the
same prayer and contemplation and sacrifice of the j|
bodily desires as in the East, we find at the same | >
time less subtlety and idealism—less repose, but more
energy—a severer standard of truth and a more prac- j)
tical benevolence.
In the East we find abstraction, subtlety, secrecy, j)
and the magical power of the individual; in the West j (
we find prayer, a fervid and open boldness with n
truth, and a spiritual love content with nothing less | <
than the salvation of the whole world.
Moreover, I believe this, that there is in the moral I (
and spiritual progress of the world an evolution, as in I)
the vegetable and animal creation; and with Tenny- j (
son I can say that |)
** I doubt not through the ages an increasing purpose runs, . 1)
And the thoughts of men are widened by the process of j)
the suns.” ' . j(
We find that all esoteric and ascetic forms of re- j)
ligion take the same ground regarding the body, K
namely, that it must be brought under subjection to i)
the soul, and thereby rendered a fitter temple for the j)
rule of the spirit. U
In this respect the East seems to me to have a
more complete and scientific method than the West,
for in the East the method has been systematised
after a manner almost unknown in the West, and
regarding which no systematic rules are laid down,
either by Jesus of Nazareth, or by any of His
disciples; although this may perhaps be explained
by the fact that no universal and minute rules can
be laid down with regard to physical details, for
that which might be best in Central India could nob
be best in London or in Greenland.
When I attempt to describe the Eastern method,
I do not pretend to speak with authority as to details,
because, as we all know, the innermost details are
hidden from all but the initiated, and we, as a
society, after one year’s connection with the East,
have not yet received more than a few fragments of
knowledge to be picked up at the threshold.
Broadly stated, however, the occult and ascetic
method of the East consists in a life separated from
the family ties, and all the anxieties and discords of
the world, and in which continual contemplation of
God is required.
The devotee must live a life of absolute chastity;
he must abstain from the flesh of animals and from
all alcohols, and he must practise frequent ablutions.
Having freed his soul from bodily desires and his
body from superfluous flesh, he must still further
totally abstract himself from the world, and fix his
thoughts on the supreme centre ; after which, by the
practice of retaining the breath, the attainment of
which power is progressive, he ultimately obtains the
“ Internal respiration,” and by the final assistance of
those who know, he projects his soul into the astral,
and thus becoming the one internal sense, is as a
unity at one with God—^knowing good and evil, and
working as a divine and magical man.
How the adept lives after this stupendous victory,
or how he occupies his life, or what his desires and
works are, we in the West know very little, except
generally.
It is seen, however, that he becomes a magician in
the best sense; and so long as he fixes his thoughts
on God as the supreme power, and truth, and love, he
must live a life of abstract if not active goodness.
Having these magical powers, however, he must,
unless simple and wise and true and loving, be ex¬
posed to terrible temptations; and if “the angels
kept not their first estate,” but by “ ambition, that
last infirmity of noble minds, ” fell, “ how can man,
then, the (frail) image of his Maker, hope to win by
it ? ” Or how shall he escape the fate of that
“ Lucifer son of the morning ” who, aspiring to be as
God, was cast out of heaven and fell headlong into
the abyss ?
But the idea of the adept is most fascinating to
the human mind, and to attain to the dignity and
power of the magical man is an ambition far tran¬
scending all earthly ambition.
The idea of the true adept is one whose powers and
knowledge far transcend all merely human power and
knowledge, and with him riches and worldly honours,
and rank and distinction, are as nothing. But for
this very reason the adept, I conceive, must be for
ever in a critical position.
To subdue our base and worldly and animal
35
Jan. 16, 188(K THE SPIRITUALIST.
desires is comparatively an easy triumph over matter.
Will force is sufficient for that. But this very will
force must for ever present the temptation of that
self-will, which becomes spiritual tyranny; and if it |
be true that the adept controls and uses for his j
purposes the souls of weaker spirits, how can he
escape that penalty which follows all slaveholding ? |
Must he not sooner or later be compelled to pay the j
price for work done ? Or “ can any man touch pitch j
and not be defiled W j
Secrecy as an essential in Eastern adeptship is so |
far a good, as it is of the nature of that reticence |
which is so far strength; but can secrecy be main- I:
tained for a lifetime, and be the essence of one’s I
life, and not engender selfishness ? j(
In certain conditions of society, and for certain f
ends, secrecy may be essential to safety; but perhaps j'
the day is beginning to arrive when even with adept- 1
ship the rule of absolute secrecy may be relaxed, and
it almost seems as if Madame Blavatsky, as editor of j
the Theosophist, were really preparing the way to j<
give us a second and true edition of “ Isis {fully) I \
Unveiled.” |
Another question suggests itself to us’as members j)
of the British Theosophical Society. If, as we are K
told, some of those who practise yogi perish from |)
over-strained bodies, while others, becoming entangled | \
in the middle passage, are torn to pieces by the 1
demons of infernal desire, how could we, the pale ij
faces of the West, endure the ordeal ? Unless, indeed, j/
the victory were gained after a long and systematic j \
training of soul and body. I)
Finally we may ask, granting that magical powers K
can be obtained by these spiritual athletes, should j)
we of the West, at least, not be in the position of j<
those physical athletes, of whom we know that they j)
ever stand on the verge of dangerous disease ?
But I have already confessed that we know almost I)
nothing of the powers or mode of life followed by K
the Eastern adept. j)
Perhaps one may some day appear in our midst H
and instruct us, although it may be a question
whether he could, with advantage to himself, forsake |>
his native soil and air, and, isolated from his brothers, j)
stand before us. K
But although we are ignorant, and therefore must |)
speak with discretion regarding the adeptship of the j \
East, we can with knowledge and confidence speak |)
regarding the Christian adeptship of the West, be- j s
cause in the life and teachinsrs of Jesus of Nazareth i)
we find the history of the greatest of all the magi- K
cians who ever stood on this planet, because He |J
sought not His own will, but the will of Him who n
sent Him. j)j
His rule of adeptship is distinctly laid down in K|
words, and was openly and continually manifested in m
His life and works; and all who choose may freely j>|
enrol themselves as brothers and sisters of His order, j(j
while those who begin to live the life will at once m
begin to know the doctrine; and those who truly |)|
live the life will know the doctrine in its fulness.
Now the rules for Christian adeptship we find l)j
fully laid down by the Founder Himself in His n|
Sermon from the Mount, ill
The historian, after a rapid sketch of the birth hi
and early life of Jesus of Nazareth, suddenly intro- jo
duces Him as entering on His public life as a teacher
of righteousness and a worker of miracles.
We find that, if I may use the term, He com¬
pleted His initiation by going into the wilderness
and fasting forty days and forty nights, after which
He was “ an hungered.”
Then, as in Eastern initiation, still following the
parallel, He became subject to the test temptations
of what is called the devil, but which Easterns and
modems call evil spirits, and thus the narrative
proceeds.
“ And the tempter came to Him and said : If Thou
be the Son of God, command that these stones be
made bread. But He answered and said : Man shall
not live by bread alone, but by every word proceeding
.out of the mouth of God. Then the devil taketh
Him up into the Holy City and setteth Him on a
pinnacle of the temple, and said unto Him : If Thou
be the Son of God, cast Thyself down, for it is written.
He shall give His angels charge concerning Thee, and
in their hands they shall bear Thee up, lest Thou dash
Thy foot against a stone. And Jesus answered and
said: It is written, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord
thy God. Again the devil taketh Him up into an
exceeding high mountain, and showeth Him all the
kingdoms of the world and the glory of them, and
said unto Him: All these things will I give Thee
if Thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then Jesus
answered and said : Get thee behind Me, Satan, for it
is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and
Him only shalt thou serve. Then the devil left Him,
and angels came and ministered unto Him.”
(To be continued.)
THE EXPERIMENTAL METHOD OF INVESTI- ‘
GATING SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Parkfield, Didsbury,
near Manchester, has sent us for publication the
following extracts from a letter arranging a meeting
between himself and the late Mr. Serjeant Cox. It
was written by the latter, under the date of Sept.
9th, 1879, and sets forth Mr. Serjeant Cox’s opinion
of the experimental method of investigating the
phenomena of Spiritualism. He wrote:—
“ It will give me very great pleasure to join your
seances for the purpose of purely scientific investiga¬
tion as you propose.
“ Of course it will be impossible to undertake
always to attend, for other business claims may occa¬
sionally interfere; but you may rely on my presence,
with very rare exceptions.
“ I shall be quite willing, with the rest, to attest
the results of our investigations.
“ Science will be very much indebted to you for
the course you are adopting. No real progress can
be made until it is taken out of the hands of mere
enthusiasts, and examined, as all other sciences are
pursued, by careful experiment.”
ANSWERS to correspondents.
S. D. F.—It is necessary that such certificates as to the genuineness and value of
mediumship should be publicly attested, not alone by the name, but by the full
address of the writer.
H.—We often refuse advertisements sent in good faith and by straightforward
people, because they recognise as genuine phenomena those which Spiritual¬
ists as a body regard as “ not proven,’’ and recognition of which would excite
unnecessary prejudice.
B.—It would be foreign to our purpose to start a controversy about the teachings
of the clergy to the Indians in your district.
36 THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 16, 1880.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late 'Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.E.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edixiburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 6s. 6cl. post free
CONTENTS I
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process |>
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon- j \
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness i (
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain. ! (
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in !\
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti- i (
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards i (
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions— i)
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage— ; \
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical i (
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of i (
a Peculiar Force or Influence. | f
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes— i >
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and !)
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre- j)
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents i)
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of i 1
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of i \
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and j)
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious i)
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method j\
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator— j (
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of i (
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro- j >
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not I \
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s j (
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World. i (
CHAPTER VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of j)
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions— ! \
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do j \
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism j (
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele- i (
graph Founded on It. j /
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame— j \
Researches of Reiohenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of | (
Mesmer, or With the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic j (
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water j (
• • Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. — j /
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained byMes- j)
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking |)
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds. i \
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested j)
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the j)
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the I >
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought- !)
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by j)
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c., I (
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the ! (
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits j)
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments— j)
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student— ;)
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State— j >
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi- I \
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments— j \
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen- i (
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking ; (
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian I /
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of J(
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep— j (
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep I /
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyanoe in the Sleep— J)
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley's Case of i)
Retrovision. I)
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance— j (
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases— j /
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Oases. i)
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis —Cases —Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe- \)
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions j (
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks )
and Summary. | \
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British Museum-street, London. : (
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena :—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Jan. 16, 1880.
THE SPIK1TUALIST.
in
Cloth, email 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
• Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is net any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
origipal position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; hut
if, asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers ,No, All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable,. the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In .short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Alien, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
TTiALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
JC in Spiritualism, by Christian Benners, One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-iane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexandbb, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
i! Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very cldver
writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
T3 ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
JLV OF SPiEITUALlSM, by William Crookes,
F.B S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of Self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VABIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd.; or six copies post free for Od.
•OAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN-
XV) GEB AND EPHEMEBIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Baphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War 1
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 18d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
TJRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIA,
X> TION OF SPIBITUALISTS, 38, Great Eussell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per Week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ 8. O.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Bue
do la Eepinidro, Paris.
rriHE BANNER OE LIGHT: the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Bich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Bich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, Ac., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free-
!?RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prise essays given
through mediumship, also of Articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of '• M.A. (Oxon),’’ and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“01 Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trafice-mediurnship of Cora L. Y. Tappan-
Bichmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.;
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediutnship of T. L. Harris.
IY.—Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V.—The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-medium ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Bichmond.
YI.—Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings wfiro produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Olbisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments,
VIII. The Spider of the Period, By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) apd Mrs, .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women, By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg,
XII. —Besurgam. By Caroline A- Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Bogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
' XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVJ.II.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Ka}hham By Lucia O.
Stone.
, XXI.—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—-A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace..” By the Bev.
O. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism; By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By 0. Carter Blake, Doe. Soi., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Sehiller.
XXVIII.—The Belation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“M.A,, Oxon.”
xxix;—A Sdanee in the Sunshine- By the Bev. C.
Maurice Davies; D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Bev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow's Position in Belatibn to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs, Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Belation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Bussel Wallace,
F.B.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street London, W.O
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics," awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O,
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SABGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. B. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N. Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza—Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
O. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Sensed
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr, 0. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr;
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Boss-Church, Miss Kisliugbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. 0. Bane, Mr. B. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby,
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Bev. S. Watson, and
Bev. B. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments,
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Eolations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune,
Chapter XVI.—Belations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism oil Morality-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Bevelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facta and
Inferences—Concluding Beflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIEE”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Beconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie’s Spirit Song ”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Besurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI, The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street London, W.O.
T3EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
XU psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardeo, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Bue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
iv
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFOKE AND AFTER THE
Christmas Pudding,
USE
END’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENG’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Bipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Bev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts. to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
QTIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
IO AMOUNT of EXEECISE frequently DE-
BANGE the LIVEB. ENO’S FEUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WOBLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FBUIT SALT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FBUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
1 he Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
EWS FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
XjL FBUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
Fagged, weary, and worn
OUT! !! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
END'S FEUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FBUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue de la
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FBUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to, my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Bobert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
« SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
IO vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked ,l ENO'S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
u Hatcham, London, S.E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
TESTIMONIAL for Dr. MONCK.
APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
Dear Friends,
Fully sensible that too many appeals have been
made on behalf of Mediums, we feel that Dr. Monck’s
case presents one for a special claim upon the gene¬
rosity of Spiritualists.
As one of the Pioneers of our belief, he has not only
spent his private means, but also his very life; for in
furthering research by means of the marvellous
materialisations in the light through his mediumship,
his health, already exhausted by bitter persecution,
has completely given way.
For nearly two years he has been cared for by kind
friends, but it is now his desire to return to the work
so dear to him as soon as his health permits, and
especially is it his wish to work as an UNPAID
medium, to do which some temporary help is now
needed.
The undersigned earnestly appeal to all Spiritualists
to assist Dr. Monck in his present necessity, and to
subscribe liberally to the Testimonial now under their
care.
One friend has offered to give £20 if £80 more is
subscribed in sums of £10 and £5 each. We think this
challenge should be accepted, but we hope small sums
will not be withheld.
W. P. Adshead, Belper.
Dr. Brown, Burnley.
James Burns, Southampton-row.
Alexander Oalder, l, Hereford-square, S.W.
Prof. B. Friese, Breslau.
A. J. Oranstoun, Meggen, Lucerne.
J. H. Gledstanes, Merignac.
Baron Dirckinck Holmfeld, Holstein.
Sir 0. ISHAM, Bart., Northampton.
Bev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Kilburn.
Wm. Oxley, Manchester.
E. Dawson Rogers, Finchley.
Morell Theobald, Hon. Sec.
J. Pemberton Turner, Leamington.
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P., Queen Anne-street.
Prof. F. Zollner, Leipzig.
All remittances should be sent to
Morell Theobald.
62, Granville-park, Blackheath.
Subscriptions already Bboeived.
£ s. d.
Mr. and Mrs. Oranstoun, Lucerne    10 0 0
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston   10 0 0
W. P. Adshead, Esq., Belper  5 5 0
William Tebb, Esq., Albert-road   5 5 0
H.B.H. Prince G     5 0 0
Alexander Oalder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square 5 0 0
Dr. J. Dixon, Great Ormond-street  5 0 0
F. G. S., per A. Oalder, Esq     2 2 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P  2 2 0
J. Pemberton Turner, Esq  2 2 0
Morell Theobald, Esq  2 2 0
F. Myers, Esq    2 0 0
Two Friends   2 0 0
Dr. Brown, Burnley  1 1 0
Wm. Oxley, Esq  110
Bev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A    110
Mrs. Stone, Shute Haye  1 1 0
J. B; Stones, Esq     110
Dr. Stowell, Brighton    1 1 0
James Bowman, Glasgow   1 0 0
Miss Douglas, South Audley-street  10 0
B. Gessler, Basle    10 0
A Friend, per B. Gessler  1 0 0
Joseph Swinburne, Esq    1 0 0
A. Tod, Peebles    10 0
Bev. W. Miall, Hackney     10 0
Miss Ottley, Belgravia  10 0
Dr. Wyld       10 0
John A. Hoover, Philadelphia    0 5 0
A. P., Edinburgh   0 10 0
W. B. Tomlinson   0 10 0
T. Farrell       0 10 0
J. Thompson         0 10 0
Small Sums     1 13 0
Second List,
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory ,    10 0
Prof. Cassal, Lon. University   110
A. J. Oranstoun, Esq., second donation ... 2 0 0
F. W. Percival, Esq., Savile Club    110
The Yen. Archdeacon T   10 0 0
Herr Oscar von Hoffman, Leipzig   8 0 0
J. Clark Ferguson       0 10 0
January, 1880.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.'
Spiritualism in some of its Religious Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Curious
Beasoning of a “Master in Israel A. M. H. W.—
Spiritualism and Positivism in Relation to Problems
of Government: G. F. Green—Spiritualism in China :
Dr. Nicholls—Spiritual Evolution: M.A. (Oxon)—
Popular Errors and Objections to Spiritualism Ex¬
plained and Answered: J. S. Farmer—William Lloyd
Garrison and the Bev. Odin Ballou: T. S.—Notes and
Gleanings: Examine Yourselves; California Changes;
Spiritualism Capturing the Church ; Opponents Over¬
come ;“ What is our Nature?” The Uses of Spirit¬
ualism.—A Christmas Carol: J. T. Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW; Hay Nisbet & Co. 52 Ropework-laue.
Jan. 16, 1880.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The 11 Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia ,7 6
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . .76
The Seer. ; ;, HI. ,,' ■ . ... 7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. „ V. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or, Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People   7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . .86
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health .76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . 2 6
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .26
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . 2 6
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . 3 0
Morning Lectures . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOB TW.O GUINEAS PEE MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Bent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOB FIVE SHILLINGS PEE MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIBKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCHOFT, Manager
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS EAVENSOBOF T, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 6s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
CONTENTS.
Cabinet StancesThe Capture of “ a Spirit ”  25
Correspondence:—Dr. Monck    27
Mediums and Mediumship  28
Visions of Crystals   31
An Antiquary’s Ghost Story. By Augustus
Jessop, D.D j  32
How Best to Become a Theosophist. By George
Wyld, M.D.          83
The Experimental Method of Investigating
Spiritual Phenomena   35
Answers to Correspondents   35
Paragraph:—“ Passed to the Higher Life ”  27
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridoe and Co.
at the Holborn Printing Works, Full wood's Bents
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub.
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London
E.0
