Registered as a Newspaper.
No. 4L2.—(Yol. XYIL—N0.5L) LONDON: FEIDAY, JULY 16, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom, references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOYER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN T H E LIG H T S,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
Demy 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges. Price 12s. 6d. Post Free. Will be ready in a few days.
ILLUSTRATED BY VARIOUS FULL PAGE AND DOUBLE PAGE ENGRAVINGS.
TRANSCENDENTAL PHYSICS.
AN ACCOUNT OF EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS FROM THE SCIENTIFIC TREATISES OF
JOHANN CARL FRIEDRICH ZOLLNER,
Professor of Physical Astronomy at the University of Leipsic ; Member of the Royal Saxon Society of Sciences ; Foreign Member of the
Royal Astronomical Society of London; of the Imperial Academy of Natural Philosophers at Moscow; and Honorary Member of the
Physical Association at Frankfort-on-the-Main.
TBANSLATED FKOM THE GERMAN, WITH A PREFACE AND APPENDICES, BY
CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY, (of Lincoln’s inn, Barrister-at-Law.)
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33. Museum Street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Contains striking selections from the writings of Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. C. I'. Varley, F.R.S., Mb. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S., The Committee of the Dialectical Society, Professor Hare, of Philadelphia, Professor Zollner, Mr. Serjeant Cox,
Captain R. F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism. The w*rk will also contain some useful
information for inquirers.
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
fi Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the berefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain Jamies fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with naving written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W,C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 16, 1880.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). Erom the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trtjbner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIKIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM ELETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stemway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing.
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
Very Stylish in
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS
DR. JAMES MACK,
37, UPPER BAKER STREET, REGENT’S
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W-
STEINWAY HALL,
Lower Seymour Street, Portman Square.
PARK. At Home from 10 till 6.
D. YOUNGER,
Mesmerist, Mesmeric Healer, Medical Rubber,
gives private instructions. Mesmeric Seances and
Electro-biological Entertainments at Home or by
appointment. Can also supply Mesmeric Sensitives
for Private Experiments, At Home daily from 2 till 10.
23, Ledbury-road, Bayswater, W.
A COMPLIMENTARY SOIREE
Will be held at the above Hall, on
TUESDAY EVENING, JULY TUh.
It is proposed that a Farewell Testimonial should be presented to Mr. and Mrs.
J. W. FLETCHER, expressing the appreciation of the great body of Spiritualists of the
noble work done by them during their stay in England, and warm wishes for their
speedy return.
Sofa Stalls, 5s, Stalls, 2s. 6d. Unreserved Seats, Is.
Tickets may be obtained of Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, 19, Cambridge Street, Hyde Park, W.;
of Mrs. Maltby, 27, Great Coram Street, Russell Square; and at the Hall.
SPIRITUALISM:—TRANCE DISCOURSE.
MRS. CORA L. V. RICHMOND
(Formerly Mrs. Tappan)
Will deliver a discourse under the control of her spirit guides in
ST. JAMES’S HALL
(Entrance in Regent Street)
FRIDAY EVENING, JULY 16th, AT 8 O’CLOCK.
Subject BODY AND SPIRIT.
Two Shillings and Sixpence, in Stamps, free by post.
PPHEOSOPHY, and the Higher Life:
-I- or Spiritual Dynamics and the Divine and
Miraculous Man. By George Wyld, M.D., President
British Theosophical Society. Contents: Man as a
Spirit—The Key to Theosophy—The Divine and Mira,
culous Man—How best to become a Theosophist—
Anaesthetics Demonstrate the existence of the Soul—
The British Theosophical Society.
Trubner, Ludgate Hill, or David Scott. 164, Oxford
Steeet.
A RLISS ANDREWS, Letterpress,
.AJL Copperplate, and Lithographic Printer, 31,
Museum-street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Three doors
from Great Russell-strcet.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
■jV/TRS. WOODFORDE Any form
-LiJL Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C.
To close with an improvised poem. Tickets 2s., Is., and 6d. may be obtained by letter of
Mrs. Strawbridge, 4<, Dorset Square, N.W., or at the Hall on the evening.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
‘‘M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYOHOGrRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
ibis book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by tbe spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly soientifie methods,
giving well-proved facts firsthand conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
V_^ DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone road, Earls-court, S.W.
Hell opened to Chris¬
tians.—This)is one of the most objectionable
orthodox books ever published, and contains pictures
of the infernal regions calculated to strike terror into
the hearts of children and people with weak nerves.
Cloth, eight illustrations. Post free sevenpence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch office, 33, Museum
Street, London, W.C.
A LLEGOR1CAL SKETCHES,
jLJl founded on spiritual truths.
L The Inward Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. 3. The
Two Yoices. 4. The Invisible Teacher. Price Is. 6d.
Yictokia Steam Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.
pHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\_y WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-sireet, Bryanston-square, London.
% 1^$ of % yitagr^a af % antt af ^{tiqttealtam.
No. 412.—VOLUME SEVENTEEN; NUMBEE THKEE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 1 6tli, 1880.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peioe Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum*street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist:—
His Impeeial Highness Ni¬
cholas op Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lobd Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baboness Yon Yay, Coun¬
tess Wiirmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robeet Dale Owen.
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandee Aksakop,
St. Petersburg
Sie Chart.es Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Bueton, F.R.G.S.
Alpeed Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Sebjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alekandeb Caldeb, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Maxdougall Gbegoby
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
F. Podmoee, Esq., B.A. (Oxon).
Mrs- S. 0. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speeb, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev, C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
0 Blackbuen, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Maekley, Esq.
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baeon Yon Dirckinck-Holm-
peld (Holstein)
J, W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M.Adelbebthde Bourbon,First
Lieut, of the Dutch Guard to
the King of the Netherlands
M. L. F. Clavaieoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq.,'F.R.S.
C. F. Vaeley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. Geoege W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Fbiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Saegent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richaedson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoobe, Esq., J.P.
0. Caetee Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
O.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Baekas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Maetheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Puedon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marbyat
Madame Isabel de Steigeb
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Yia Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 51 East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Religio-Thilosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
THE PHYSIOLOGY OP MEDIUMSHIP.
In another column will be found an article
| by Mr. Frank Podmore on the unusually
j valuable addition to the literature and science
j of Spiritualism, contributed to these pages by
I Dr. Purdon a few weeks ago. Mr. Podmore
I suggests that certain interesting results might
; be obtained, by determining the quantity of
| carbonic acid exhaled by a physical medium
during a seance, because the amount given off
of that gaseous product of combustion in the
human body, would to some extent furnish a
clue to the amount of work done. But the
temporarily materialised beads and arms
which are so busy at dark seances, look and
feel like those of flesh and blood, and the
beads breathe and speak. This tends to
indicate that the temporary organisms give
off carbonic acid, consequently that the deter¬
mination of the amount exhaled by an
entranced and quiescent medium, will be but
perhaps the smallest of two proportions given
off during the production of the manifesta¬
tions. What may be the nature of the
binding link between the temporary organs of
the spirit and the corresponding organs of the
medium, has yet to be discovered; it is no
mere ordinary physical connection, but some¬
thing deep down below the phenomena of
molecular energy. In the case of a genuine
materialisation there is no more reason for
supposing any chemical difference in the air
between the form of the spirit and the form
of the medium, than there is in the air
between a dying person and the place where
bis materialised spirit is simultaneously seen
by several witnesses hundreds of miles away.
There is nevertheless strong evidence of commu¬
nity of sensation between corresponding parts
of the two forms, and the same is the case with
spontaneous death-bed apparitions. Mrs.
Crowe narrates how a young man in Paris
was so frightened by the temporarily ma¬
terialised apparition of bis father, that be
struck at it with bis riding-whip; the dying
father, who was concious of having seen bis
far-distant son, saw and felt the blow of the
whip.
26
THE SPIEITUALIST.
July 16, 1880
A NAME AND WHAT IT SIGNIFIES.
BY LOUISA ANDBEWS.
The question as to the name Ci Spiritualism,”
although objections to it be not without foun¬
dation on the ground of verbal accuracy, seems
to me far less important than the frank and
simple acknowledgement and acceptance of its
generally received meaning, and the refraining
from all attempts to make it mean something
not, in fact, essential or peculiar to the thing
which by general Consent has been so christ¬
ened. It would, even if clearly desirable, be
difficult, if not impossible, to change, now,
what has become familiar as a household word
to thousands, and is endeared to many by
association; and I fail to see that any practical
good would result from the proposed substitu¬
tion.
If names were always, or generally, very
exact expressions of the things to which they
have been applied, then indeed the word
“ Spiritualism ” might possibly mystify or
mislead: but this is so far from being the case
that I think we need not be troubled because
of the somewhat vague and inaccurate appel¬
lation. Those who insist upon regarding
Spiritualism as a religion would probably
object to rebaptise it by a name which would
narrow the limits of its meaning. The more
vague, broad and indefinite the signification of
the name, the more varieties of opinion and
feeling can find room under it; and if ever any
il ism ” included the most widely divergent
and even antagonistic views upon almost all
subjects, this that people generally know as
Spiritualism does so.
Anything becomes religious to us which
tends, directly or indirectly, to lift the mind
above the lower and narrower spheres of
thought into a contemplation of realities that
are eternal, and by this uplifting to inspire in
the heart that “worship of something afar
from the sphere of our sorrow,” which is the
soul of all true religion, irrespective of creeds.
Spiritualism may do this or it may not. “ The
fool sees not the same tree that the wise man
sees ”—nor do all the wise necessarily see the
same. “We receive but what we give,” and
it seems to me we should be content to give
according to our capacities and to receive
correspondingly, not insisting that others who
give and receive something different must
necessarily be upon a lower plane and have
less right to the name of Spiritualist, which
certainly when first given never was meant to
be thus restricted and monopolised.
A belief in certain objective phenomena
and their spiritual origin is not a religion, and
only in so far as Spiritualism is this belief is
it anything distinctive and peculiar. All the
rational convictions held by Spiritualists in
regard to the human soul, and its relation to
the unseen Jand eternal, have been held by
others. Nothing new regarding the duty of
man to his Creator, his neighbour, or himself,
has been revealed to us, nor is any such direct
revelation possible. This knowledge, or in¬
sight, is the result of that moral elevation
which alone makes clear to the mind the old,
old truths, that until they become vitalised
through what is supplied by each individual
soul as their recipient, remain mere dead
statements—“a tale of little meaning, though
the words be strong.” Morality is a recog¬
nition of our true relation to persons, circum¬
stances and conditions, together with the ac¬
ceptance of this relation as a governing law of
life; and in proportion as we become, by
using such light as we have, freed from what
is low and narrow^ shall we take a more com¬
prehensive and therefore less selfish view of these
relations, finding in their divine harmony a
refuge from all the discords that
self-seeking
and the effort to put the lower in place of the
higher must necessarily produce. No man
and no spirit can give us any moral law higher
than that in the recognition of which humanity
has gradually grown. The Free Thinker, the
Christian, and the Buddhist may each and all
appreciate and seek to live in unison with
this divine harmony, and the exhaustless
sources of wisdom and light are as open to
the one as to the other. I see no reason whatever
for believing that Spiritualists have become
possessed of a clearer understanding of, or a
stronger desire to attain to, the position which
rightly belongs to them, as integral parts of
the infinite whole than others.
I see no reason why they should have been
led farther or higher than others, nor that
they have the monopoly of any truths essential
to human progress. And if morality, which
may, to a certain extent, be embodied in a
code of laws intelligible to the understanding,
is not in any degree dependent upon what we
have learned as Spiritualists, how can that
which belongs more exclusively to the emo¬
tional nature, and lives in the innermost depths
of the human soul, depend upon convictions
which, if worth anything, are rational deduc¬
tions from observed facts, and not, in any true
sense of the word, a “faith”—^though faith in
things undemonstrable may co-exist with, as
it may exist without, these convictions ?
27
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 16, 1880
In the meeting described by Mr. Massey |S
(in The Spiritualist of May 21st) the question K
■was mooted as to the influence of Spiritualism k
on morality. To expect such a result from k
such a cause is, I think, to ignore the fact that |>
Spiritualism, as generally understood, means R
only a belief in the actual occurrence of cer- |i
tain phenomena, and that these phenomena |!
are produced by beings not clothed in physical j j
bodies. [Those who attribute the phenomena j;
to a psychic force emanating from the medium
do not usually desire to be ranked among jj
Spiritualists, and it is most unjust and objec- ij
tionable to force that name upon anyone who h
refuses to claim it.] To expect from such a |(
belief direct and manifest influence as u a R
power over evil,” is to look for something |)
which it would be very astonishing to find; j j
and as to indirect effects, these must depend, |s
wholly and entirely, upon the individual to K
be affected. The answer to such questions |J
must, however, be looked for not in what we ji
might imagine to be possible or likely, but jj
rather in the actual living facts as we see k
them displayed before us. Now, nothing, so jj
far as I can see, distinguishes the Spiritualists R
of to-day, as a class, except a degree of K
license, in theory and practice, which is the |j
natural result of a sudden enfranchisement |j
from old restraints, acting upon people who jj
are not educated up, intellectually or morally, Is
to the requirements of a liberty so wide, and jj
which is, we may hope, only a transition state, j j
destined in due time to develop into something j j
wiser and better. Spiritualists differ one from |j
another in their views in regard to all that jj
appertains to rational thinking and right living j j
as widely as it is possible for men to do. Some | j
insist on a moral life according to the old jj
standards of morality accepted by civilised jj
communities generally. Others declare that jj
if a man follow the impulses implanted by jj
nature, it is mere narrow prejudice to object js
on moral grounds, or to require of him that he j j
should hold himself in subjection to any law Ij
of right except what, u fashioned and formed ]j
by no will of his own,” he feels impelled to jj
make for himself, or rather, as he thinks, finds |j
ready-made to suit his special requirements, jj
All existing ordinances, all recognised boun- jj
dary lines between right and wrong, would be |j
swept away to make things comfortably “free ” j j
for these believers in man’s divine right to jj
please himself, if such “advanced Spiritual- ij
ists ” could have their way.
The speeches delivered in New York at that jj
shameful reception meeting tendered to a justly jj
condemned criminal, welcoming him back from
jail into the ranks he had so foully disgraced,
prove these statements to be by no means ex¬
aggerated. What does morality mean to men
and women who worship their own impulses
as divine, acknowledging no higher law and
reverencing no other God ? Sometimes people
holding such opinions claim to be Spiritualists
—the world recognizes them as such; and who
is to say that they have not as much right to
that title as we who believe differently and
whose views of life and its duties are the
reverse of theirs ? Where are we to draw the
line of exclusion ? They believe in those
things recognised as appertaining exclusively
to the faith called Spiritualism; and that is
what they get out of it. Because this is so,
because men are what they are, and because
the same thing influences different people in
different, even opposite, ways, (let us name that
thing what we may) I hold it to be a mistake to
make the claim, which cannot be substantiated,
that Spiritualism really means, or ought to
mean to everybody who uses the word and
claims the appellation, just what it means to
us, or that it is, necessarily, in any manner or
degree, a religion. The truth is that as soon
as we have the phenomena, physical and
psychical, behind us, and begin to theorise,
ceasing to make what we have learned from
indubitable facts the basis of our convictions
in regard to spiritual things, we leave the
ground that belongs peculiarly and exclusively
to us as Spiritualists. The verbal teaching of
spirits, direct or through the lips of a medium,
is too vague and too contradictory to build upon
as the basis of a religious faith; and as to
mere noble, inspiring words in relation to
things unseen, we shall find these in the utter¬
ances of embodied spirits. I, at least, have
never heard nor read anything purporting to
emanate from the disembodied, so satisfactory
at once to the intellect and the heart as I have
found in the sermons, for instance, of James
Martineau. I have seen it stated by many
that the utterances of inspired mediums are
occasionally elevated far above their normal
capacity. This may be so; but I have not
myself witnessed such a case. I have heard
and read many pure, true, and altogether unob¬
jectionable things from the lips of a medium,
but never anything unquestionably above his
or her reach in the normal condition, never
anything uncolored by the mental characteristics
of the speaker or uninfluenced by his ignorance
of the subjects treated. Of course I know that
this may be more or less satisfactorily explained,
28
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 16, 1880
but the fact femains that we have neyer yet Kl
had any higher teaching in morality or re- k|
ligion than that which others have received j?j
through good and wise men in the flesh. |>|
Where then is our especial and peculiar |s|
Spiritualistic religion to come from? How K
have we become possessed of a religion in any \n
way different from, or superior to, that of all j;
other men ? The high moral and religious Kj
views so admirably set forth in the “ Higher k|
Aspects of Spiritualism ” are, in their essen- j/j
tials, entertained by many who never heard a Kj
rap or listened to the words of an entranced j<|
medium. I hold that all the influences exerted j?|
by Spiritualism are necessarily indirect ones m
(except in the case of those who are themselves Kj
mediums) having their one and only source in j<j
the phenomena: and this is why I have always m
insisted upon these as being the nucleus from j)j
which all that, as Spiritualists, we hold most jSj
precious, has been evolved. To understand j(l
these revelations, to appreciate the importance j?j
and bearing of these most marvellous evidences Kj
of spirit existence and power, humbly to study js!
the meaning of these mysteriously significant k!
facts, and to utilise the results of such study in j)j
a way worthy of us as rational and spiritual Kj
beings, whose lives are full of problems de- jsj
manding solution—this is what it seems to me jcj
we are called, as Spiritualists, to do: not to Kj
fall back upon certain rational views shared |>j
by others, or certain exalted states of feeling, jsj
claiming these to be Spiritualism, while all ja
that really distinguishes us in our opportuni- j)j
ties for enlightenment, is looked down upon jsj
(though its symbols remain as yet but half Kj
deciphered and their meaning most imperfectly !<j
comprehended) as something unworthy the j>j
patient and continued attention of the truly Kj
spiritual minded.
By this course we leave to the ignorant !<!
and idly curious, things worthy the most j>j
intelligent and reverent study. We turn jsj
away from our reliable and heaven sent j(j
teachers, viz. facts—and listen enthusiastically ?
to words that may be wise and good, but |sj
Which we cannot accept as unquestionably jsj
true because their origin is doubtful, and Kj
because, except in very rare cases, they afford m
no intrinsic evidence of being the utterances jsj
of exalted and wholly reliable guides. Those jsj
who are themselves mediums, sometimes forget, j s j
I think, how dependent other Spiritualists are, j?|
and must be, on their senses for all that they jsj
learn on the subjects which especially interest js|
thoughtful and enquiring minds in relation to Kj
spirit life and communion. That which we k
get otherwise must be accepted on authority,
or through a faith that is blind. It is not the
phenomena, (not even those that are simplest
and least impressive as being familiar) that
are unworthy ; but men and women, through
ignorance, vulgar curiosity and miserable
frivolity have been degraded in misusing them.
To rescue these Grod-sent messengers from
such hands, and to strive reverently to in¬
terpret teachings, the importance of which we
cannot fully estimate, is surely a noble work,
one eminently worthy the true Spiritualist,
and the wise truth-seeking man, let him call
himself what he may. That the influences of
a belief in the facts and the truths of Spirit¬
ualism may be and often are great and most
beneficent, I know well, both from obser¬
vation and experience; but not in ignoring
the phenomena, or in leaving them behind as
things outgrown, useful only to neophytes,
(exactly those least fitted to deal with them)
shall we ever make true progress. These
manifestations of spirit existence and energy,
with all the mysteries involved in the exercise
of unknown forms as they act upon the things
we call material, must, rightly used, be of
incalculable value ; and upon these facts alone
must we gradually, Stone by stone, upbuild
our church, if we desire to have one. On the
breadth and strength of these foundations,
and upon our rightly interpreting the symbols
thereon inscribed, must depend the beauty
and the enduring strength of the superstructure.
Built upon this rock, and reared by help of
knowledge acquired through the comprehension
of the unseen, by means of forms that are
visible and tangible, we may hope, at length,
to lift strong, beautiful, and imperishable
towers high above the mists of fancy and the
clouds of superstition. Thus, and not other¬
wise, must our church of the future be built.
Of a religion not so founded, and not grate¬
fully acknowledging these facts as its basis,
I know nothing, except as all know it who
worship God, whose hearts are tender and
loving, whoso thoughts are lifted by holy as¬
piration above the pettiness of earthly life,
who strive from pure and high motives, to see
what is true and to do what is right, or who
falling short in attainment, still recognise in
these things the highest good; and this,
happily, is a religion peculiar to no class, sect,
or people.
Bonn, Germany, July 6th.
  —
To-night (Friday), Mrs. Tappan-Richmond will give
a trance address at St. James’s Hall, Piccadilly, at
eight o’clock.
29
July 16, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
LIRE LESSONS.
A correspondent writes to us from, the South
of France:—
<c I am still only a searcher, and though my
searchings seem to bring me but little certi¬
tude they give me hope, bringing with it the
strength to live. I do not attempt to force the
light I would have, having long ago realised,
as Mr. Atkinson remarks in last week’s Spirit¬
ualist, i that in efforts of will we risk wasting
the power in a wrong direction.’ The deeper
lessons of life come to us slowly, and I suppose
we only really begin to live when these lessons
have taken deep hold of our hearts.
il Since a sad event, I have ceased to live
hurriedly or anxiously. I am seeking—wait¬
ing—watching the straws-, also growing out of
life, as it were, and although becoming less
dependent on the old needs, I do not forget
that life brings us a threefold labour. We
must labour in the present, doing that we find
to do in our daily lives, yet not calculating
even this present as a certainty. We must
labour in this same present, calculating the
temporal future, that our labour may not be
as is the fool’s. And in these two labours of
present and temporal future, we must labour
continually for a probable future, which, if
such exists, must be above and beyond our
power of comparison with this temporal life,
even for death; for death with all its sur¬
roundings of uncertainty of time and con¬
ditions, is the only one sure event each life can
calculate on as a certainty.
“ Have the straws brought me any light, when
they have only guided me this far on life’s
pilgrimage ?
“ There is a question I should much like to
see taken up by some of the able correspon¬
dents of The Spiritualist. It is one no person
seems to lose sight of, or put aside, yet none
can explain it satisfactorily, and as it bears
strongly on our spiritual nature, or soul,
touches deeply the fact of this same soul, or
spirit, being immortal, or not subject to decay.
“What becomes of the spirit or old self of a
person in their second childhood ? I know one
who is in good health, yet she seems for the
past two years to have quite lost sight of her
own identity, has to be dressed and fed, plays
like a very child with her own grandchildren,
while not seeming conscious of any relation¬
ship whatever, not even knowing her own
children as such.”
May it not be that in old age the spirit may
sometimes be unable to express itself through
the defective physical brain, and perhaps be
passing a portion of its time in scenes far
removed from earth? Sometimes the in¬
tellectual faculties of such persons become
clear and bright, shortly before the death of
the body.
CaMspttkm
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]   
ALLAN KARDEC.
Sir,—I am compelled to remove Miss Blackwell’s
unwillingness, by saying that the printers were per¬
fectly correct in their punctuation; though the severity
of her consequent sentence may be modified, when she
learns that mine, had a double reference —firstly to the
many semi-rappist, semi-orthodox persons whom I have
met in France—secondly to the account given of the
self-styled Allan Kardec in the October number of the
Magnetiseur Universel for 1876, where the assertion
respecting blest medals is to be found. Somewhere
among my newspaper cuttings I have this one ; if I can
find it, I will copy the portion in question and send it to
Miss Blackwell, thereby proving to her that “the guilt
of preposterous misrepresentation ” lies at the door of
the fiery little editor in the Rue J. J. Rousseau, not at
mine. Meanwhile I venture still to hold other “ move¬
ments” to be of greater importance than those of
tables. J. A. Campbell.
THE DEATH-WATCH.
Sir,—Allow me to thank you for having inserted in
your journal the verses I sent last week, and at the
same time to say, that an incident connected with that
publication reminds me that I was indebted to you for
a similar favour a few months later than this last year,
when you printed a letter of mine, relative to a peculiar
sound I had heard on two occasions, and about which
I was anxious to obtain what information I could
through your columns.
I wished to believe that what I thad heard was not
what some believe it to be, an omen of death, or as
it is called, “the death-watch,” and your remarks at
the end of my letter assisted me to put away the
painful thought, especially, as weeks, and even months
passed, and no new misfortune appeared.
But in about four months after, when all idea of a
“ warning,” had gone from mind, the cold hand of
death was laid on one whose loss to mo can never be
repaired—laid upon him in much suffering and long
continued, both of body and mind, (foreshadowed by
the sound I had heard at night, the end of the day, so
loud, and lasting so long). Two months later, the
same decree went out against the only son of my sister,
a child of eight years, (answering to the warning
heard at midday, faint, and continuing but a short
time).
Was it an “omen,” or an insect, or is the insect
always an omen ?
I do not ask you to publish this, but leave it to your
own discretion. Any experience calculated to strengthen
belief in forewarnings, is a doubtful benefit, for it
often makes one wretched without doing good. A
warning of coming evil to those whose lives are linked
with ours, might be a great blessing; would be one
if.it restrained the hasty word, the ill-judged letter,
the thoughtless or heartless act; but we are so prone
to believe only what we wish, that we look away when
the hand of a hard destiny seems to point to what we
30
THE SPIEITU ALIST.
July 16, 1880
most prize, and persuade ourselves that is not the b
doomed one, and so the warning is lost.
L. F. S. . K
[After anybody hears the noise made by the death-watch i;
beetle—a common and harmless insect—some relative or friend is i)
sure to die if the hearer only wait long enough, but there seems i)
to be no reason for crediting the beetle with having anything to K
do with the matter. A little hot water poured into the crack i \
between the boards in which the death-watch usually works, j\
will stop the “ omens.” Em] \\
A TRANCE ADDRESS. !/
Sir,—Will you kindly inform your readers that on K
Tuesday, July 20th, a meeting will be held at these i)
rooms, at 8 p.m. precisely, when Mrs. Cora S. Y. ])
Richmond will give an inspirational address and also K
answers to questions. Open free, members and friends, i)
C. A. Burke, Sec. i?
British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell St, Bloomsbury, W.C., July 14th, 1880. K
Death :—To die, therefore, is to come to life amid j (
scenes, strangely like, yet indescribably superior to the |)
things with which we are familiar here. They are a !<
thousand-fold more real, and living, and efficient. They
are not near, or far in space; for they are within this i)
world as we are within our bodies. The only condition j?
of our entrance into this world is the opening of our Is
spiritual senses ; and this takes place fully and forever j)
at death. Our departed have not gone away from us ; Ic
they have gone only where our flesh-conditioned eyes is
do not see them. We are already in their world as to |>
our spirits, although we do not see it. When death j<
uncovers us of this body, which hides our outlook to j)
this world, we shall realise a spiritual body whose j?
senses tell us of a real spiritual world, without any js
journey or any dark river to cross.—J^en Church Inde- |>
pendent.
Spiritualism :—Notes and Queries of last Saturday I;
contains the following paragraph:—“ To the sources of
evidence already adduced allow me to add an article in K
the April number of the Quarterly Journal of Science of I)
1878, entitled ‘Space of Four Dimensions,’ by Prof, k
Zbllner, the eminent astronomer, of Leipzig. It is an K
account of an experiment carried on by the writer, i>
together with two others of the most distinguished men I?
of science in Germany, Profs. W. Weber and Fechner, s
with the medium Slade, and recorded in the first volume /
of Zbllner’s scientific treatises. Prof. Zollner knotted K
together and sealed the two ends of a new string, pur- j)
chased by himself, and never allowed out of his own j?
custody. In company with his friends and Slade, he js
sat in a brightly lighted room in his own house, the j>
string slung round his own neck, the knotted and sealed it
ends placed on the table under his own hands, the loops | s
hanging down below the edge of the table on his lap, j)
Slade’s hands on the table throughout, and never i(
touching the string. Under these conditions four knots i>
were produced in the string, such that they could not i)
be untied without free ends, a phenomenon which Prof, js
Zollner believes to be explained by the hypothesis of a >
fourth 4imension> and the new set of movements it \(
would admit of. Prof. Zollner had many sittings with Is
Slade, always in full light, at which many phenomena P
of the most marvellous description occurred, and they js
are recorded by him in later volumes of his Wissen- j)
schaftliche Alhandlungen. I am now engaged on the P
translation of these portions for the English public, j)
They are among the most perfect of the evidences of I)
spiritualistic facts, and, indeed, leave no possible jc
loophole to the sceptic who is not sufficiently hardy to K
impugn the veracity of the eminent witnesses. 0.0. M. \)
Temple.”
PRIVATE SEANCES.
On Wednesday, last week, at a private
seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 21,
Green Street, Grosvenor Square, London, Mr.
Rita was the medium. Mr. F. W. Percival,
M. A., brought with him to the stance a rect¬
angular cardboard box, six or eight inches
long. Before leaving home he had carefully
tied the lid on with string, which was sealed
to the cardboard in four different places, and
the wax stamped with a signet ring. A
piece of paper and a piece of red pencil were
placed inside, for the purpose of obtaining
spirit writing in a securely enclosed space.
Mr, Rita never saw this box until just at the
beginning of the dark seance. At its close the
seals and strings were found to be intact, but
instead of any writing in red, a great deal of
scribbling in black was found upon the card¬
board of the bottom of the inside of the box,
showing that, as in some of Professor Zollner’s
experiments, the spirits had been able to in¬
troduce and remove lead-pencil from the in¬
terior of a securely fastened box. In the
course of the same stance feebly illuminated
spirit forms were several times seen floating in
the room by all present, while Mr. Rita was
held hand and foot.
At a stance at Mrs. Gregory’s, last Satur¬
day, Mr. F. O. Matthews, of Keighley cele¬
brity, was the medium. Among the guests
present were Mr. and Mrs. William Crookes.
Last Saturday night also, a stance was held
at Captain James’s, 129, Gower Street, Lon¬
don, with Mr. Rita as medium. The material¬
isations were unusually strong, probably in
consequence of additional power given by the
presence of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Fletcher.
The forms appeared, well-lighted, behind
the sitters, as well as over the table, and in
one instance two of them were seen at once.
Spirit writing was obtained on both sides of a
book slate, which had been carefully tied,
gummed up, and sealed by Miss Robinson.
Major General Maclean was among the guests
present at this stance.
Last Wednesday night, at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s stance) Sir William Dunbar, Bart.,
was among the guests. A book slate was
brought, untied, by Mr. Peroival, and held in
the hands of a visitor throughout the stance^
yet the word (< Good ” with part of the word
“Night,” was written on it by the spirits
through Mr. Rita’s mediumship.
Copies of the translation of the experiments in Professor Zollner’s great
Work will be out about the end of next week. A prospectus of the contents
of this unique book will be found on page 36. The Spiritualist public are
indebted for this English translation, to the generosity in time, work and
ability of Mr, 0. C< Massey.
July 16, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
31
THE PHYSICAL THEORY OP MEDIUMSHIP.
BY BBANK PODMORE, B.A. (OXON.), P.C.S.
It is not, I trust, too late to refer to Mr.
Purdon’s article in The Spiritualist of May
14th, which I read for the first time last
night. I much regret that so able a paper,
containing as it does, the only fully developed
scientific theory of mediumship which has yet
appeared, should not have met with more
notice than it has done, and that those who
have noticed at it all, should have passed over
the main point, to comment on details more
or less irrelevant, or, at least, inessential.
For myself, I very much doubt whether
mediumship be not something more than the
outcome of a hystero-gouty diathesis in the
medium; and I am not inclined to attribute
much weight to the corroborative evidence
for his theory, which Mr. Purdon finds in
the urine analyses.!
Mr. Purdon advances the theory, that the
phenomena of what is known as mediumship
may be accounted for by the abnormal physio¬
logical condition of the medium ; a condition
in which the voluntary muscular system is dis¬
sociated from the control of the central ganglia,
and 11 thrown out of gear.” The effect of this
dissociation, as he points out, may be assumed
to be twofold. In the first place, the normal
consciousness being composed of two sets of
elements, those derived from incoming
passive sensation, and those derived from out¬
going active motion, the effect of the partial
withdrawal of one of these components must
be to leave the other unballasted, and, in the
event of its total withdrawal, we should be
ready to admit almost any abnormal mani¬
festations of consciousness to be within the
limits of possibility. We are already familiar
with some of these abnormal powers of con-,
sciousness in dreams; and we see, it is
assumed, its unrestrained sensory activity in
the phenomena of clairvoyance and clair-
audience, and, as regards what Mr. Purdon
happily calls “ woven feeling,” in the strange
exaltation of the imaginative and reasoning
faculties that are sometimes exhibited in
trance.
But whilst in dreams the power of volition,
as well as its external manifestation, is en¬
feebled or altogether wanting, in the exercise
of mediumship volition may be as active as
in the normal state, but, being debarred by
the theory from externalising itself in the
ordinary manner, through the muscles, it has
recourse to other, and, except through these
phenomena, unknown agencies, which for
convenience sake have been classed together,
and are named Psychic force.
So far, Mr. Purdon’s hypothesis supplies an
adequate explanation of at least the greater
part of the known phenomena of mediumship,
and is not discordant with orthodox con¬
clusions, founded on the latest researches in
physiology. I cannot sufficiently admire the
thoroughness and consistency with which he
has elaborated his views, nor the ingenuity
and conciseness of his statement of them.
But it appears to me that in his anxiety to
derive some confirmatory evidence for a theory
which is sufficiently strong, clear, and consis¬
tent, to stand for the present by itself, without
any such bolstering, he has made a slight
mistake, if he will not think me too pre¬
sumptuous in saying so. In the first place,
when the causes affecting nitrogenous
elimination are so obscure, it is not desirable
to base any conclusions at all on a single ex¬
periment. But were these experiments mul¬
tiplied indefinitely, and the results found all
equally consistent with his theory, it does
not appear to me that Mr. Purdon would have
made his position appreciably stronger.
Granting that this assumed decrease in the
elimination of urea during a seance is to be
attributed to the same cause, to which the
similar decrease during sleep is ascribed—the
inactivity of the voluntary muscles—it does
not require the aid of quantitative analysis to
show us that the muscles are inactive. We
did not wait for the chemist to tell us that the
body is at rest during sleep. Why should
we require such aid to tell us that the body
is at rest during trance ? We can find out
much better by other means whether that is
the case or not, with regard both to the
voluntary and the involuntary muscular
systems. The cardioscope and the stethoscope
will tell us whether the rhythm of the heart is
slower, and the respiration more languid, and
our own eyes will afford us surer indications
than can be derived from any estimations of
urea, of the passivity of the limbs and
trunk.
But Mr. Purdon’s theory requires that not
only the actual motions, but the volitional
nerve-currents in the central ganglia, of which
these motions are the general, but by no means
the invariable, consequents, should also be
wanting. To render this clearer. Normally in
a state of rest, when external movement is
almost absent, the volition of such movement is
frequently present, but is suppressed by an
after volition before it can be realised. It is
32
THE SPIRITUALIST.
believed, for instance, that the act of thinking
is, ultimately, a suppressed articulation, the
formation of the words by the lips being
willed, but the transmission of the nerve-cur¬
rent being stayed before it leaves the cortical
centres. Now these inhibited volitions, pro¬
bably, have somewhat of the same weight in
consciousness as if they had been actually
realised. And it is these which are assumed
by the theory to be wanting both in sleep and
in mediumship. What we really want, then,
is not evidence of the diminution of muscular
action—that we can supply for ourselves—but
of diminished cerebral action in the direction
of muscular action. And it is very doubtful,
how far the elimination of nitrogen is affected
by this. Mons. Byasson, for instance, in an
experiment of nine days duration, found that
while the effect of cerebral activity on the
eliminated nitrogen was obscure, that activity
caused a very marked increase in the amount
of sulphates, and, to a less degree, of phosphates
and water, in the urine ; doubtless, all derived
from the disintegration of brain tissue. If
then it is possible, and I apprehend that it is
possible, to obtain any direct evidence forMr.
Purdon’s theory from urinary analysis, it is
eminently desirable that the latter constituents,
also, should be taken into consideration as
affording much surer indications of what it is
desired to prove, and of what appears to
be susceptible of direct proof by no other
method.
But whilst it is probable that any indications
derived from this source, until our physiological
knowledge is much more advanced, must
remain of doubtful value, there is an analo¬
gous method by which the problem may be
attacked on its purely physical side, which
seems to hold out some promise of substantial
and trustworthy results. Mr. Purdon supposes
that the chair, which is moved from its place
at a physical seance, is moved by the volition
of the medium, and by means of force evolved
from the body of the medium (possibly, con¬
jointly with those of the sitters). Now all the
force in the body is derived from the oxidation
of the carbon and hydrogen of the food. And
it is found that the evolution of carbonic acid
in the breath bears a direct and readily esti¬
mated proportion to the nature and amount of
the work being done by the body, so that,
given the amount of carbonic acid produced by
a man of known bulk in a definite period, it
would be possible to guess pretty accurately
the nature of the work on which he was
engaged. Now if we can estimate the amount
July 16, 1880
of carbonic acid evolved by a medium during
the progress of powerful physical manifestations,
whilst his body was quiescent, we should be
enabled to calculate, in terms of foot-pounds,
the amount of energy required to lift a table
of known weight, to a certain height, at a
given distance from the body of the medium.
And we could in this way arrive at some esti¬
mate of the comparative economy of the two
known modes of externalised volition—the
muscular and the psychic—and should have
advanced very near towards demonstrating the
relations of this mysterious force with the
known forces of nature.
Of course there are considerable practical
difficulties in the way of such a proposal. It
is probable that, at first, much difficulty would
be experienced by the medium in passing into
the trance state at all, whilst his head and face
were encumbered with the apparatus necessary
for the purpose of the experiment. And in
order to obtain any accurate measure of the
force employed, we should have to estimate the
carbonic acid evolved not only by the medium
but by all the sitters. But these preliminary
obstacles once overcome, it is hardly possible
to overrate the important nature of the results
that might be arrived at by such a method of
research. At any rate, the suggestion is here
thrown out, in the hope that some may be able
to avail themselves of it.
London July 10th, 1880.
SPIRIT PAINTINGS.
In the very interesting details given from
Le Mans, in France, and taken from the Revue
Beige, of April, as translated in your journal of
May 28th, there were omissions which I am
glad to say were filled up in the Revue Spirite of
last month, June, 1880, which gives an account
of a further stance at the same place. For ex¬
ample, we were not told who the medium was,
nor where he sat during the time that drawings
were being made like those produced by M.
Duguid, of Glasgow, but in a manner unlike
that accomplished by M. Duguid, inasmuch as
in this case, the drawings were ostensibly
manipulated by a spirit. By the present
account we are told that the medium is M.
Lebreton himself, the gentleman who gave
the trance to this circle ; and the place where
he sat was at a table, between two ladies, who
did not, however, hold his hands. I here
translate the last details from the Revue
Spirits:—
“the spirit artist.”
“ Spiritual group, Henri Lebreton, at Mans,
33
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 16, 1880
stance of March 4th, 1880. Those present who
signed their names: MM. Cornillean, Contreau,
Ldon Denis, ISTiepceron, Bontelonp, Lehreton.
Mesdames Frager, Malherbe, Niepceron,
Goutard, Guy on, Bouteloup, Blayette, Le-
breton.
u Our guide, the spirit artist, presented him¬
self and begged us to make haste ; he wished,
he told us, to attempt a work such as we had
not before seen him execute. He asked for a
tumscrew, and when we asked him what he
wanted it for, he answered by the table, u That
is my business and not yours, you make haste.’’
All his usual implements: pencils, crayons,
penknife, crumbs of bread, as well as the turn-
screw were placed, some on the table which
stands in the middle of the room, some on the
table used by the secretary. He ordered us to
sit at the places pointed out to us, and commanded
complete silence and an uninterrupted chain,
all which was rendered. The medium, H. Lebre-
ton, places his hands on the table; Mesdames
Niepceron and Blayette are at his right, the
others at his left, hold in one of their hands
those of Madame Lebreton, placed in the
middle, whilst their other hand ought to be
united {doit s'unit) to that of the person who
commences a second chain. M. Contreau places
himself as intermediary, the spirit joins M.
Denis to him, and finding us well placed,
ordered the candies to be put out.
u After a prayer, uttered by the medium, the
manifestations commenced; flashes of light
passed about the room in every direction, the
bell was rung, the partition boards were strongly
shaken, we heard that noise which imitates the
Chinese drum. On our asking for the instrument
which caused the noises it was given ; it is a
little tray of sheet iron, and was brought by the
spirit Blanche; where she got it no one knows.
During this time the artist was very active,
we saw him turn and move, we heard him
screwing and unscrewing, and he did it all
with great briskness ; we could make out per¬
fectly well what he was doing; with his turn-
screw he took to pieces a little port¬
able easel which he . had never before
made use of; this easel can, at the will
of the user, be placed, when complete, upon
the ground, or can, when dismounted, be
placed on the table. It was in this last way
that the spirit made use of it, for he took off
the screws very handily which fastened the
three lower branches, put his easel on the
table, and placing on it a great piece of card¬
board, took a whole sheet of drawing paper
and, as he wished to fix it to the cardboard,
set to work looking for points or nails by
which he could carry out his intention. He
unhooked a picture that was hanging over the
chimney-piece, made us touch it, placed it on
the ground and, by the aid of his tumscrew,
took out some nails that were at the back, put
the nails in my hand, and in high good
humour, told us, by raps, that he had got all
he wanted. He took his sheet of paper, made
it undergo a full fluidic preparation, turning it
over and over again in his hands; then, he
made it into a roll into which he passed his
hands. He lit-up the interior of this roll of
paper very powerfully, and he made use of it
for throwing a brilliant light on our faces and
in every direction. He then fixed his paper
on to the cardboard, by means of the nails
which he came to take again out of my hand,
and began his work, stopping from time to
time to shake us by the hand all round and to
go to get the things he wanted from the second
table. This movement was effected very
quietly; we saw a luminous hand go and
come, continuing this even when the spirit
was at work, leaving us thus to guess that he
had one or more friends who aided him in his
work. The artist several times turned round
his easel, thus showing his drawing to us all.
After about twenty-five minutes, a strong rap
struck with the pencil case announced to us
that the drawing was finished. The spirit
wished us good night, rapping always in the
same way, a rap for each of us, and ordered a
light to be struck. Upon the paper was a
head of the natural size, this head, drawn from
the top of the shoulders, is surrounded by a
line forming an oval medallion; the features
are strongly marked and very expressive; the
beard, fully drawn is very thick; the hair is
turned back; on the left under the line formed
by the medallion, are found the initials of the
spirit, (A.C.); and below, in the middle,
(F.V.R., at thirty years of age.) "We were
full of wonder and enthusiasm, and heartily
did we thank God in that He had permitted
us to behold such great things. After this
act of grace each of us retired filled with
astonishment and admiration.
Ernestine, Madame Lebreton.”
April 2nd, 1880.
We should have been glad if the ladies who
sat on either side of the medium had given es¬
pecial testimony as regards the medium having
remained on his chair during the whole stance,
although, we fully believe that this is implied
by their appending their names to the docu¬
ment. And even had he been moved away
34
in a trance by the spirits to help in the work,
there would still have been wonders enough
in the seance^ less principle, to satisfy the
cravings of the most greedy for physical
phenomena.
The case which, according to my knowledge,
comes nearest to that which has been above
detailed, is that of the mediumship of Mr.
Charles Swan, of Aylesbury, (of whom I have
not heard for some years, but who, I sincerely
trust is now well and flourishing) who, as a
lad, when shut up in a room by himself, ad¬
mirable paintings were produced through him
without copies, while other physical mani¬
festations occurred, which could not have
been effected by the lad himself unassisted,
such as hanging heavy pictures, &c.; and,
indeed, his uncle, Mr. Wilson, also of
Aylesbury, expressly asserted m Human Nature,
for March, 1872, that the framing and the
hanging of the pictures were done by the
spirit of his deceased brother, John.
Sckutatoe.
MES. WELDON’S SPIEITUAL EXPEEIENOES
IN NEWGATE.
Last Tuesday night, Mrs. Weldon lectured
at the Central Hall, Bishopsgate Street, Lon¬
don, on her Prison Experiences. The hall
was filled in every part; in fact, during the
first hour of the lecture, the crowd trying to
gain admittance blocked the pavement and
part of the road outside the building. Captain
Morrison presided. Mrs. Weldon gave her
statement as to the merits of certain points con¬
nected with the late trial, which had resulted
in her being convicted of libel, and imprisoned
in Newgate (not as a first-class misdemeanant)
for a few weeks. She then retired from the
platform for several minutes, returned in an
imitation of her prison garb, and proceeded to
narrate her experiences in prison, amid occa¬
sional bursts of applause from the listeners.
In the course of her remarks she exhibited a
small glass frame, beneath which were various
specimens of husks and hairs which she had
picked out of her mouth and teeth while im¬
bibing a single basin of the daily gruel of
Newgate. Her remarks upon the potatoes and
lady prisoners of the establishment were severe.
Portions of her address could not be heard,
because of the noise made by people entering
and leaving the hall, but much of it was con¬
tained in a periodical called The Prisoner's
Cross, on sale in the building, and from which
we make the following extracts:—
I had my dreams in prison. The atmos¬
phere of Newgate seems conducive to dreams.
July 16, 1880
II I had two of them. Of the first I will say
! nothing. I have often dreamt it; it is a ter-
1 rible dream, and a sure precursor of disaster. It
I was so in this case. The second came as the
| interpreter of the first. The second dream was
| in fact the little bird of the air that brought
| me the intelligence of the descent on Tavistock
| House while I was safely out of the way, and
| beyond the possibility of defence. Mankind
| is uncommonly cowardly at times. In my lone
cell I saw the rude men ransacking my apart¬
ments, and shrieked with terror lest they
should get hold of my papers, and construe
some of them into evidence of madness . .
“ The imprisonment never broke down my
courage or my spirits, but the revelation of
that vision did. I knew it was true to the
letter, and I literally cried for two or three
I days aftewards, and could neither eat nor
m drink. Still, it was a merciful dispensation
|>] that the voice whispered the whole sad truth
Kl into ‘ my dreaming ear., It is, indeed, of no
j j avail to deny information to those whom the
j>| gods determine to inform. They will find a
n method, natural or supernatural to admonish
I their favourites. For those favourites indeed
Stone walls do not a prison make,
INor iron bars a cage.
# # # *
u The chaplain read me awful homilies on
j the sinfulness of sin, and, notwithstanding my
| frivolity, laboured to impress on my mind that
I had brought a fearful disgrace on myself and
ISj on my friends by getting into prison. Douce
j<| man ! To be found out seemed to him to be the
Kj crime, and one of the greatest moral turpitude.
!>| Sin is nothing till it is found out. That is
l)| soimd theology, you may depend upon it, in
j<| the region of the Old Dailey. The ‘ convic-
m tion’ is the essence of the crime. There is no
|>| mistake about it. I told him I could not see
> the sinfulness on which he dwelt with so much
<i unction. I had had no hand in making the
jV| laws, and I was in prison because of bad laws;
i | therefore the disgrace was in the laws and not
Kj in me. He never tamed my proud spirit,
K though we had many a tough controversy, and
!j I really believe I know more about the spirit
I and essence of religion than he does. Oh,
I how he turned on the Gospel taps—the 1 Will
| of God , one morning, and the next morning
I the Eternal Life,’ and on other mornings all
j the well-known orthodox taps—good old-
| fashioned threadbare doctrines—musty theo-
I logy, but no life and soul in them. But I
I survived the infliction of all the taps. He did
I not drown me. I gave him word for word, and
THE SPIEITUALIST,
35
July 16, 1880 THE SPIRITUALIST.
answered his letter with the spirit I assure
you there is little of the spirit of religion in
Newgate. It is a sort of geographical par¬
enthesis where God is not. As for the Chap¬
lain himself—well, he is a polished and a
perfect gentleman in his personal character,
but in his official character he is the perfection
of stereotyped official religion, and official
religion is a very milk-and-water affair.
# # # #
“ I sang for them in the chapel on Sundays.
Wherever I may be I must sing, while
Heaven lends me breath. I sang to the poor
people in prison. I sang loud, and sang my
best. Music is to me a sacred exercise, and
least of all can I sing hymns of praise or of
devotion with half-heartedness and cold for¬
mality. The prisoners heard me and were
delighted. My singing touched and softened
their hearts, and soothed the rebellious and
wayward passions in many a breast.
“ I did not like the Chaplain’s sermons;
they did me no good, and I dare say the ex¬
perience of everyone else was the same. They
struck no chord within my soul; they
prompted me to no good thoughts or deeds:
they fortified my spirit with no Christian and
heroic courage. I took with me into the prison
all the vivacity and moral character that sus¬
tained me, and I am proud to say that I came
out of prison with an unbroken spirit and a
character undemoralised. That is a grand
distinction for me, for such experience is
almost unique. They burnt out of me none of
the qualities they found in my soul. They
cannot tame or degrade a free and indepen¬
dent spirit.
* * * *
“My punishment did not formally include
hard labour, but I think I had it. First they
said they would send me to the wash-tub.
“ ‘ Oh ! very well,’ I replied; 4 the wash-
tub be it.’
“Butthey relented. Even governors, and
inspectors, and warders sometimes relent. So
I did not go to the wash-tub. Imagine them
finding such an occupation for a lady delicately
brought up!
“ But I did not rebel. I am proud and
outspoken, but I am meek, and even submis¬
sive, to an authority I respect. They thought
they had got a lawless spirit in me, but they
were mistaken. I let them know when I
thought they were imposing on me unwar¬
rantable indignities and cruelties, but I was at
heart loyal to their discipline. So I never
refused to wash,
“ But they found an employment more
)j suitable for me—-an employment that was
< more profitable to them. I knit them nine
cj pairs of worsted socks, and, that they might
;| not get intermixed, I marked them in pairs,
si No. 1, No. 2, No. 3, &c. Besides, I did all
a the fancy needlework they required of me. I
?! was often up at half-past four in the morning
yj at my task. Is not that ‘ hard labour ’ in
sj prison parlance ? Didn’t I take pains with the
< Chaplain’s robes ? Poor man, he was wearing
?j a surplice which was so ‘ tattered and torn’
;j that it might not have been repaired for a
sj hundred years. Indeed, it looked as though
<1 it had descended from one Chaplain to another
?! through a long line of reverend officials. I
)| would advise the ladies, wherever there be a
s! prison, to look after the Chaplain’s robes. Do
?! as I did; mend them carefully and neatly.
?| For, if Newgate be a fair example, all the
S| Chaplain’s surplices, hoods, &c., require the
G delicate attention of nimble fingers. Such
a attentions to the staid and worthy gentlemen
?| who minister in holy things to prisoners and
captives would be much more pious than the
working of curates’ slippers, how exquisite
soever the workmanship bestowed on those
; slippers. I also repaired the stole. Oh, that
S| stole! What irreligious neglect had left it in
G the dilapidated and discreditable condition in
?| which I found it ? I made it a labour of love,
! and left the evidence of my visit, and the
S traces of my pious diligence in that stole.
“ But the trouble to get a needle and a
?j piece of fine thread! I thought we should
> never be able to begin for lack of those
S necessary implements of housewifery. I am
h not sure that the Home Secretary was not
?| consulted in this matter also. There is no
)| precedent for fine needles and fine thread; no
sj precedent for repairing the Chaplain’s robes
?! and making them decent.
“ At last the needles and thread came, but
! whether by the solemn intervention of one of
< her Majesty’s principal Secretaries of State I
?! know not. But they came, the work was
?! done, and I will venture to say the Chaplain
>1 wears his robes to-day with a proud satis-
)j faction which is shared by no other prison
I! chaplain in the kingdom.
 «  
Me. W. J. Colville, the trance medium, has post-
i poned for a time his return to England.
Considebable additions will shortly be made to The
Spiritualist Lending Library, as we have taken in hand
j a public duty omitted for a long time past by others :
j that of buying up for public use rare works of past
i times relating to apparitions, spiritual phenomena,
j and mesmerism.
36
THE SPIRITUALIST. July 16, 1880
THE ENGLISH TRANSLATI0N~0F PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S EXPERIMENTS.
LIST OF ENGRAVINGS.
FRONTISPIECE :—The room at Leipsio in whioh most of the
Experiments were conducted.
PLATE I:—^Experiments with an Endless String1.
PLATE II:—Leather Bands Interlinked and Knotted under
Professor Zollner’s Hands.
PLATE III :—Experiments with an Endless Bladder-band
and Wooden Rings.
PLATE IY:—Result of the Experiment.
PLATE V :—Result of the Experiment on an Enlarged Scale.
PLATE VI:—Experiments with Coins in a Secured Box.
PLATE VII:—The Representation of Test Circumstances,
under which Slate-writing was obtained.
PLATE VIII:—Slate-writing Extraordinary.
PLATE IX :—Slate-writing in Five Different Languages.
PLATE X : —Details of the Experiment with an Endless band
and Wooden Rings.
PREFACES.
TRANSLATOR’S PREFACE Professor Zbllner and his
Works—The Value of Testimony considered—Sources of Fallacy
—How can Medial Phenomena be Explained ?—The Value of
Scientific Authority—Mr. A. R. Wallace’s answer to Hume’s
Essay on Miracles—Spiritualism an Aggregation of Proven Facts
—-The Attack upon Henry Slade—Spirit Messages—Slade’s
Career after leaving England—Professor Zollner’s Polemic—
Items relating to the English Translation.
PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S PREFACE (Dedication of the
Work to Mr. William Crookes) :—Workers in a New Field of
Research—Thoroughness of the Labours of Mr. Crookes—The
Moral Necessity of the Strife about Spiritualism—The Immor¬
tality of the Best Works of Human Genius.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—Gauss’s and Kant’s Theory of Space—The
practical application of the Theory in Experiments with Henry
Slade-—True Knots produced upon a Cord while its ends were in
view and sealed together—The principles involved in the tying
of knots in Space of One, Two, Three and Four Dimensions—
Berkeley’s Theory of Vision—The Conception of Space derived
from Experience—Kant on Spiritual Existence.
CHAPTER II:—Henry Slade’s first visit to Leipsic—Professor
Fechner’s observations of the movements of a Magnetic Needle
in proximity to Madame Ruf, a Mesmeric Sensitive—Professor
Erdmann’s observations of the Phenomenon—The Experiment
repeated with Henry Slade—The Observations of Professors
Braune, Fechner, Weber and Scheibner—A Spirit Apology—
Destruction of a large Screen by Spirits—Experiments with a
Compass—Apparition of a Living Hand—Experiments with a
Bell and lighted Candles—Slade and the Grand Duke Constantine
—Testimony of the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof—A Test Experi¬
ment in Slate-writing—Impartation of Permanent Magnetism to
an Iron Needle by Medial Power.
CHAPTER III:—Permanent Impressions obtained of Tem¬
porarily Materialised Hands and Feet—A proposed Chemical
Experiment—Slade’s Abnormal Vision—Physical Impressions in
a Closed Space—Enclosed Space of Three Dimensions, open to
Four-dimensional Beings—The Muscular Power of a Spirit Hand
-—A Test with. Flour—Experiments with a Polariscope—Flight
of Objects through the Air—A Clue to Research.
CHAPTER IV:—Conditions of Investigation—The Know¬
ledge of our Ignorance—Unscientific Men of Science—Herr
Virchow’s Precept and Practice—“ TheMartyrology of Mediums,”
a book of the Future—Slade’s reply to Professor Barrett—A
Medium’s enunciation of the First Rules of Experimentation in
Natural Science.
CHAPTER V:—Production of Knots in an Endless String—
Further Experiments—Experiments of the same Nature in Lon¬
don—A Dining Table Floating in the Air in Daylight—Manifes¬
tations in the House of a Physician—A Medium in Seclusion—
The Imposition of A priori Conditions—The Apparition of a Pale
Hand for Three Minutes—The Knotting together of Leather
Bands beneath the Hands of the Author—Professor Weber’s
Experiences with a Spirit Hand—Disappearance and Reappear¬
ance of Ponderable Objects—A Book Vanishes and Reappears—
A Table Vanishes ; it Reappears in Mid-air.
CHAPTER VI:—Theoretical Considerations—The Axiom of
“The Conservation of Energy” valid in Four-dimensional Space
—Projected Experiments to prove the Fourth Dimension—The
Unexpected in Nature and Life—Scientific Passivity—Schopen¬
hauer’s “ Transcendent Fate ”—Goethe on the Veil of Nature.
CHAPTER VII:—Various Instances of the so-called Passage
of Matter through Matter—An Unexpected Phenomenon—The
Heat sometimes produced by the Operation—The Burning
Power of Psychic Force—That Evidence the best which can be
appreciated without the Testimony of Experts—Failures at seances
an Argument against Trickery—A naive Misconception—The
Moral Responsibility of Mediums—The nature of £he Phenomena
inconsistent with Trickery—The Limits of Physical Human
Strength—A Force of Tension of 198 cwts. exercised by Psychic
Power—A Force equal to that of two Horses exercised in Slade’s
presence—Catalytic Forces—Galileo on the Perverseness of the
Philosophers at Padua.
CHAPTER VIII :—The Phenomena suitable for Scientific
Research—Their Reproduction at different Times and Places—
Dr. Friese’s and Professor Wagner’s Experiments in Confir¬
mation of the Author’s—Experiments with Private Mediums—
Manifestations observed by Professor Nicolaus Wagner at St.
Petersburg—Blind Faith and Blind Scepticism—Professor Wagner
on the Fanaticism of Blind Sceptics—Investigation of Spiritual
Manifestations in a Private Family—Spiritualism a Foe to
Atheism—Form Materialisations through a Private Medium—
Appearance of the Spirit of Olga—Effect of strong Manifestations
upon a Medium—Repetition of one of Professor ZSlIner’s Experi¬
ments by Professor Wagner—Psychography—Spirit Identity—
Impression made by the Materialised Hand of a Deceased
Person—The Value of the Facts.
CHAPTER IX:—Theoretical—The Fourth Dimension of
Space—A Miracle to Two-Dimensional Beings—The Experiments
of Professor Hare—A Ball of Platinum introduced into a Her¬
metically Sealed Glass Tube by Spirits—An Experiment with
Coins—Several Examples of the Passage of Solid Matter through
Solid Matter—Clairvoyance—The Fourth Dimensional Theory
explains Clairvoyance—The part taken by Slade’s Soul in a
Manifestation—The Spatial Widening of the Three Dimensional
Circle of Sight to Clairvoyants—Why Bodies gradually become
Transparent to Clairvoyants—Illustration in the case of Andrew
Jackson Davis—The Criterion of Objectivity—The Influence of
one Will upon another—Hansen’s Experiments—The Philosophy
of Berkeley applied to Spiritual Phenomena.
CHAPTER X:—An Experiment for Sceptics—A Wager—
Slade’s Scruples—A Rebuke by the Spirits—An Unexpected
Result—Captious Objections—The Experiment of Professor
Wach—Example of the Apparent Penetrability of Matter.
CHAPTER XI:—The Facility with which Material Bodies
apparently pass through each other in Slade’s presence—Writing
through a Table—A Test in Slate-writing conclusively disprov¬
ing Slade’s agency—A Description of the Trance State.
CHAPTER XII:—A “ Fault” in the Cable—Jets of Water-
Remarkable Heating Effects through Slade’s Mediumship—
Smoke—Sulphurous Vapours—“Fire Everywhere”—A Bluish-
white Light—Abnormal Shadows—A Philosophical Explanation
—A Materialised Spirit Hand—A Luminous Form.
CHAPTER XIII:—Phenomena Witnessed by other Observers
than the Author—Manifestations in Bohemia—The Narrative of
Herr Heinrich Gossmann—Spirit Identity— Heavy Stones brought
into the Stance Room—Extraordinary Manifestations—Spirit
Writing in Five Languages.
APPENDICES.
APPENDIX A:—The Value of Testimony in Matters Extra¬
ordinary—The Proportional Strength of Evidence—The Con¬
tradiction of Experience by Alleged Facts—Mr. Starkie’s Treatise
on the LojW of Evidence—Hume’s Essay on Miracles—The In¬
fluence of Preconception—Hume’s Principle Mathematically
Refuted by Mr. Babbage—The “Uniformity” of Nature—The
Lord Lindsay’s Experiences—Dr. Lockhart Robertson’s Experi¬
ments—The Cumulative Force of Testimony—The Universal
Belief of Mankind—Obstruction of Truth by Scientific Men—
The Testing of Evidence. .
APPENDIX B:—Evidence of Samuel Bellachini, Court Con¬
juror at Berlin.
-APPENDIX C:—Admissions by John Nevil Maskelyne and
other Professional Conjurors—Houdin—Jacobs.
APPENDIX D:—Plate X--Experiment with Sealed Cords
and Endless Bands.
Price 12s. 6d. : Post Pree. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London.
July 16, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
Cloth., small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Postfree,
“RIFTS IN THE YEIL.,\
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. "White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created 'for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pnqisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
pALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
S_ in Spiritualism, by Christian Beimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexandeb, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.,
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENO-
JLL MENA OF SPIBITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.K.S. The best work ever published, to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-si, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VABIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for l^d; or six copies post free for 6d.     
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENOEB AND EPHE MEBIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Baphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d. s with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: 8. E. Catty, 12. Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion of spibitualists, 38, Great Bussell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. O.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Bue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
oldest j ournal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Bich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Bich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &o., &o. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A Useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or" send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Bichmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
1Y.—Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
Y.—-The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. Y. Tappan •Bichmond.
YI.—Angel-Guarded.
YII.—An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg,
XII. —Besurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XY.—Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Bainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By theEev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Belation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Bev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Belation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Coe science. By
Alex. Calder.
XXI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Belation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Bussel Wallace,
F.B.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, S3,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Leb, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society foi
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“.POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XX Beconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live”—XX
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Besurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journald’etudes
J-V) psychologiques, fonde par Allen Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every Month. Price 1 franc.
Published by the Soeiete Anonyme, 5, Bue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post Office orders payable at
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modern Thought verses Modern Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Beligious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Benewal of Eevelation.
Chapter V:—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Bevelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Boad, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PBINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action, sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true, If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to “ drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con*
sequently irreligious age. ,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 16, 1880,
E]
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
USE
END'S FRUITSALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S ERUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Bipod,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,'Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
'NO’S FRUIT SALT.—From fche
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world,”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers, j
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good, Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities $ thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
TD^AQ-GKED, WEARY AND WORN
A OUT I! 1 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from Aisease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de l"> ifaix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. Ke is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humfhrets, Post OfiB.ce, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and He the capsule is
marked "UNO'S FRUIT SALT." Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and is. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical anc
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The'. Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirt\
other standard journals,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florencf
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song o
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustaph;
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Der
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay o;
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.’-
12. Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion,—14. Th<
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double th<
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bevoegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
B
IRKBECK BANK.—
Southampton Buildings, Chancery Lane.
Current Accounts opened according to the usual
practice of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the
minimum monthly balances when not drawn below
£25. No Commission charged for keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
per cent. Interest, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertalkes for its Customers, free of
charge,_ the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Seeurities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
31st March, 1880.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
OW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
OW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
H(
H(
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says;—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who oan appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
T UNACY LAW REFORM
U ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 p.m. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe and P. T. Blackwell, Esq,, Barrister.at-
Law, Hon. Secs.
The Spiritualist Newspaper
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Branch Office, 33,
T]
Price 6d.; post tree 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
HE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association op
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
rTHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
JL OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. : A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.AVS.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-Street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
BostoNj U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
1MTND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
■J-tJL Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S. A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillipgs. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
The Physiology of Mediumship    25
A Name and what it Signifies. By Louisa Andrews 26
Life Lessons   29
Correspondence:—Allan Kardee it    29
The Death-Watch    29
A Trance Address  30
ParagraphsSpiritualism     30
Death   .....;     30
Private Seances    30
The Physical Theory of Mediumship. By Frank
Podmore,B.A. (Oxon) F.C.S  31
Spirit Paintings    32
The Spirit Artist        32
Mrs. Weldon’s Spiritual Experiences in Newgate ... 34
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.O,
