Ekgisterud as a Nbwspapbb.
f>^YCSoi<o(^idSi< ^CiXX^'X-
#Ib,esi ^tosp^Epr x'xrimK^b ioxi^ m ^Inat §rifaiitt
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xx, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: *25, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 10x0, Seventh-street.
No. 283. (VOL. XII.—No. 4.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
GTowtents.
Speculative Spiritualism  ... ... ...    ... 37
What is Reality? By St. George W. Stock, M.A   ... 37
Spiritualism and Theosophy. By “M.A., Oxon.” 38
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—
Seances for Investigators  ... 40
Man as a Spirit. By George Wyld, M.D., Edin 41
A Remarkable Materialisation Seance. By A. J. Oranstoun 42
A Test Seance with Mr. Williams  43
A Substitute for the Reincamarion Theory. By Alfred
Russel Wallace     ...   43
Correspondence:—The Efficacy of Cursing—The Sandown
Murderer—More Spirit Photography in the Dark—What
is the Intelligence ?—Spiritual Meetings in East London
—What Truth is there in Astrology ?—A Question for
Horary Astrologists—“ M. Gustave de Veh’s Report of a
Seance ”—Spiritualism and the Spiritual 44
Spiritualism in the Fourteenth Century. By F. J. Theobald 47
The Lateral Extension of Spiritualism. By Desmond G.
Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.:—The Spiritualist—The Sceptic
—The Spirit       48
Answers to Correspondents 48
Paragraphs:—Suffering for Conscience’ Sake, 43 ; Anti-
Vivisection, 43 ; Materialisation Phenomena, 43 ; Spiri¬
tualism in Dalston, 47; Rifts in the Veil, 47; The
Royal Institution : ■■..  48
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communicar
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa-
ion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;vHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson., F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “ Life of Swedenborg gf; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
f ubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each ; postage Sd. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as|other high-class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
With cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION.
On Monday, January 28tb, Mr. C. C. Massey will read a
paper on “ Ideas of Time, Space, and Substance.’ To com¬
mence at 7.45.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
Dalston association of inquirers
INTO SPIRITUALISM. — NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that the SEVENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEET¬
ING will be holden at the Association’s Rooms, 53, Sigdon-road,
Dais ton-lane, Hackney-downs, London, E., on Thursday
Next, the 31st day of January, 1878, at 8 o’clock in the even¬
ing precisely, when the Report of Council and Statement of
Accounts for the year ended the 31st December, 1877, will be
submitted for approval and adoption. Officers for the current
year will be elected, and other business transacted.
Members intending to bring forward any motions at the
above Annual General Meeting, are respectfully requested
to notify the same in writing to the undersigned, on or before
date of such meeting.
THOMAS BLYTON, Honorary Secretary.
Rooms: 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, Hackney-downs,
London, E., 24th January, 1878.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT,
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
PEAR8, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Oox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858), From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand,
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand,
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Just published, price 5s., richly gilt,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place In public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
CONTENTS.
I ^Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—” 0 ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—‘‘Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Alms and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna ’Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies. D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
F akirs In India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Vole# of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Erie Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F R.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
0, G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, <kc., <fcc.;
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.OJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, mav be had on application.
FRANCIS I^AVEfJSCROFT, Manager,
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 25, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, I, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-streOt, Hyde-park, W.
Htz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, ^.C.
Sogers, E. Dawson, Kose-villa, Church-end, Flnchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
, road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Arm field, W. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd.. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, P. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Pabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Pitton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
I,amont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
S'cr'awhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawhridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vY.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square,'West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, SW.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj6 Capoussou,
Constantinople.
fhe Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonohitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sehastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sfreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes:Esq.,33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M..de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt.Pierre,Etterbe.ck,Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Uhion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgouiery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-fbad, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chlaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, .Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W. •
The Spirlter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senbr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s, cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
A STROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
-LjL Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. PEARCE, author
of the Weather Guide - Book, <fcc. Price Is. London;
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is ; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—ZAdkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
'O EIOHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
JL\j late William Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E. 465 pp.,
demy 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. W.O.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
4"c., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes SARGENT. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
KAPHAEL’S prophetic messenger,
. ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &c., &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London : J. E.' Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, YERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, YERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint-
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty. : 
SPIRITUAL HEALING OF DISEASE,
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, W.O.,
AND
141, CAMBRIDGE STREET, PIMLICO, S.W.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment by letter, which will receive prompt
attention. Curative appliances sent to those residing at a
distance on application.  
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
 S.W.  
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.   
MADAME LLANCORlS,
At home from 11 till 4, for Music, Trance, Clairvoyance, and
Automatic Writing,
25, GUILFORD STREET, RUSSELL SQUARE.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
w
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row.
London, W.O.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
IS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 121, Marylebone-road, London, N.W.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S ; COLBY AND RICH, London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
tl ||| J)jjugq$$ uf nnb tal jjjtttptadfottt*
VotiUjviE Twelve. Kumbeh Four.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 28th, 1878.
SPECULATIVE SPIRITUALISM.
At the present time several prominent Spiritualists are
ablaze with speculation as to the principles at the root of the
facts under their observation, and as for a considerable time
past everybody has been tied down to the close studying of
the actual phenomena, a little relaxation in the way of in¬
tellectual kite-flying may not be injurious. Moreover, the
recent free talk has had the one practical result of bringing
about a general agreement that ordinary u form-manifesta¬
tions” do not give such clear evidence of the presence of the
spirits of the departed, as inexperienced or enthusiastic
Spiritualists supposed them to furnish.
The inductive method is so sound and safe in its results, that
by it all the appliances of civilised society have been improved
and revolutionised. By that method, when a new and doubtful
problem presents itself, an appeal is made to fact and to ex¬
periment, and those who take part in contention on the
various aspects of the problem, are content to be bound by
the results of the experiments planned to solve the moot
points. For instance, Sir Isaac Newton’s hypothesis that
light consisted of minute particles ejected with infinite
velocity from the luminous body, once had the supremacy
in the scientific mind, over Young’s hypothesis that light
consisted of the wave motion of the interstellar ether. Ex¬
periment proved Young to be right, so his opponents gave
in; the great authority of Newton was also, in this instance,
overthrown.
The difference between day-dreaming speculators and
scientific men is this—that the former, having conceived a
speculation, do not concentrate all their powers upon ex¬
periment and observation of new facts to solve their new
problem, but they go about preaching it, build it up into a
dogma, pin their faith to it, and become angry when their
dictum is questioned. In short, they launch a new dogma
upon society, and fight for it with all the intolerance of true
theologians.
Nevertheless, no new discovery is ever made without the
experimentalist working in harmony with some speculation
in his head, which speculation he wishes to verify, and he com¬
monly has to reluctantly throw aside several hypotheses before
discovering the right one. The unscientific mind, not trained
in this hard school of experience, clings to its first—there¬
fore, probably, erroneous—hypothesis, builds it up into an
an article of religion, and frequently induces the blind mul¬
titude to fall down and worship. Hence, although it is well
to take a little relaxation just now in Spiritualism, and to
fly a number of intellectual balloons, after a time everybody
will be glad to return to the study of sober facts, and to
settle new problems by the results of observation and ex¬
periment.
WHAT IS REALITY?
BY ST. GEORGE W. STOCK, M.A.
What constitutes reality is a question very difficult of
answer, as most questions are which lie at the threshold of
knowledge. Let us begin by saying what does not ? The
evidence of the senses, even when each corroborates the other,
does not constitute reality. But here we must at the outset
distinguish. In one sense of the term every sense-impres¬
sion is an unquestionable reality. Of what am I certain if
not of the impressions that break in upon me through the
senses, of the sights and sounds that affect my eye and ear, ,
of the savours and odour that delight or disgust me ? These |
are primary facts. They may often be what we call haliuci- !
nations, but that does not affect the certainty of my know- j
ledge of them, nor, consequently, in one sense, their reality. I
To say that a certain impression on the senses is an halluci- j
nation, is to say that it occurs without those marks of ex- i
II ternal reality which it is the object of the present article to
| investigate. There are other things of which I am as certain
| as of my sensations, namely, the thoughts which pass through
| my mind, the passions which agitate my soul, the determi-
| nations of my will—and these, unlike sensations, are never
I declared to be hallucinations, because there is no external
i reality of which they are the recognised indications. In one
sense of the word then, all states of mind, all that may be
| summed up under the head of consciousness is real, but
mere consciousness gives us only subjective and not objective
reality; and it is the latter kind of which we are in search;
the former is mentioned in order to be excluded.
The philosophy of hallucination offers a vast field of in-
| quiry which has yet to be patiently cultivated. To say that
| a thing is a delusion is a very easy way of shelving psycho¬
logical anomalies. But delusion must have its laws no
less stringent than those of real perception. Sometimes, no
doubt, the cause of what we call a delusion lies in a diseased
state of the organs of the percipient. But it would be rash
to lay down that this is always the case. Some delusions
have an external cause though not the same kind of cause
that operates when we are cognisant of a reality. Delusions
differ in degree in many ways, more particularly in the
number of senses that combine to impose upon us. There
are hallucinations of one, two, or three dimensions, according
j as one sense only, or two, or even all three are called into
i operation. I say (( all three ” for taste and smell, as modi-
| fications of touch, may be roughly classed under the same
! head with. it. You may hear a voice address you in the day-
| time, and though you were certain that the sound was real,
| you may still consent to call the experience an hallu-
| cination, if the testimony of sight fails to corroborate that
j of hearing. Or you may at the same time see a figure from
which the voice issues lifelike, mobile, distinct in the light
of day; but if your hand passes through this figure when
you thrust it out, you will not resent the dictum of the
doctor who pronounces you the victim of hallucination ; and
this, notwithstanding that each sensation was in itself per¬
fectly real. But if the figure resists the touch then we seem
to have all the certainty of external reality that it is possible
for the isolated judgment of the individual to obtain. Under
such circumstances a man would practically believe in the
reality of his experience, and by most people it would be
theoretically admitted that he is right. It is true he may
be the victim of an hallucination of three dimensions, but
he must run the chance of that. I am speaking of course
of a case in which verification by means of the senses of
other witnesses is impracticable. If we will not believe
“ that which we have heard, which we have seen with our
eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have
handled,” then is our scepticism incurable, and we are shut
out for ever from all hope of knowledge. But then, where
! possible, it must in a strict sense be “ our eyes” which see,
j and u our hands” which handle. For the possibility of an
| hallucination of three dimensions is proved, if it need the
I proof, from mesmerism. A “ subject” under the control of
| the operator will not only see and hear, but feel to order,
| and will deride the idea of his being under a delusion. The
j subjective reality is complete, though we know that he is
| deluded. It is plain, therefore, that the sense-impressions
| of the individual are not in all cases a safe criterion of
| reality. If Swedenborg walk arm in arm with St. Paul
I through the streets of London it may be a full reality to
| him, but we must pronounce his state a delusion so long as
| the passers-by see only Swedenborg.
But what if, under certain unascertained conditions of
I ' brain or nerve, hallucination be contagious ? I have had
I personally a slight experience pointing in this direction,
l which I trust I may be pardoned for relating. Once when
38
an undergraduate at college, I was walking, towards dark,
with a friend in the quadrangle. A passing impression
occurred to me that I saw a man named H. leaning with his
back against the common-room window. The impression
was a momentary and very slight one, and I would never
have thought twice of it only for what followed. My friend
gave a start, and made an exclamation, and when I asked
what was the matter, was silent. My curiosity being roused,
I pressed him to tell me the reason of his exclamation, and
he then said, “ Oh, I thought I saw H. standing with his
back against the common-room window.” Now, this cer¬
tainly took place, and to ascribe it to mere coincidence would,
I think, be meaningless. Either the impression passed from
one mind into another, probably from mine to his, as it
seems to have occurred to me first, or else the same cause
produced both impressions. Shall we then say, with the
believers in a “ double,” that the psychical, astral, or
fluidic body of H. was at that moment “ on the loose,” and
veritably presented itself to the minds of both of us ? Or
shall we adopt a less ponderous hypothesis, and say that
some temporary effect of light or shadow being sufficient to
raise the idea of H. in one mind might without great wonder
be sufficient also to raise it in the other ? This is perhaps
the common-sense view of the case. But, however that may
be, the following story, if true—and I had it on good
authority—would establish the possibility of simultaneous
hallucination. I may not perhaps give the details of the story
with perfect accuracy, but the following was the substance
of it. An Indian juggler was exhibiting his powers under
the shade of a tall palm-tree, amid whose leaves an English
officer had previously ensconced himself. The juggler took
a baby, hacked it to pieces with a sword, and handed the
portions round to the company. He then collected them, and
restored the baby whole as before. The company had the
corroborated testimony of their several senses to the facts
of the existence, dismemberment, and reconstitution of the
baby; but the officer up in the tree, unaffected, we may
presume, by the psychological influence of the juggler (not
on account of distance, but because unperceived) saw that
the fancied baby was only a pumpkin! Now, if this story
be true, everyone will allow that was the reality which was
seen by the one and that the hallucination which was seen
by the many. How is this ? Why should we prefer one
witness to a multitude? Because a vast amount of ex¬
perience, which is prior sense-testimony, is in favour of the
one and against the many.
We have left out of count one element in St. John’s
criterion of certainty. “ That which was from the beginning.”
(This is my own meaning of the words, I daresay, but in
preferring my own meaning to the author’s, I am only
following the example of respectable commentators.) But
it is necessary to distinguish carefully between the reality of
a thing and our belief in its reality. A thing is either real
or it is not. No amount of analogies can make the real
more real, or add being to that which is; as no amount of
counter evidence can make the real less real, or take its
being from that which is. The degree of belief we entertain
of the reality of a thing is what constitutes its “ probability.”
We are obliged to judge by means of probability; it is the
II guide of life” and a safe guide in the main, though neces¬
sarily misleading in particular cases from being calculated
only for averages. In the above story we unhesitatingly
pronounce that the reality lay with the perception of the
one, because the probability is all on his side. We have
seen that that is not necessarily real which is vouched for by
the united testimony of the several senses of an individual;
nor even that which has in its favour the united sense-
testimony of a number of witnesses. Neither will it do to
say that those impressions are real which have a cause ex¬
ternal to ourselves; and those hallucinations whose cause is
internal. For the will of the mesmerist is a cause external,
in a certain sense, to the patient; and for aught we know
the reality of the world around us may lie in the powerful
will of some superior being. We may all be subjects of the
Divine Mesmerist, as Berkeley declares we are. In order
then to be safe from objections we must say that a reality,
be it object or event, is what would affect with like impres¬
sions all witnesses who have the ordinary complement of
senses in good working order. This may perhaps be let pass
Jan. 25,. 1878.
II as a definition of mundane reality. We have unfolded (to
| use logical phraseology) the intention of the term. As to
I its extension, namely, what objects and events are to be
I considered real, that is quite a different question which re-
I volves itself into an estimate of the value of evidence. It
| has formed no part of the scope of this paper to discuss the
| canons of credibility.
SPIRITUALISM AND THEOSOPHY.
BY “ M.A., OXON.”
It was inevitable that papers which cover a wide area,
| and which deal with several moot questions, should omit to
state some points in the argument, and so should seem to
I give undue prominance to those dwelt upon. Both for what
j I said and for what I did not say, I expected to be taken to
! task. It was inevitable that I should be in antagonism to
I some whose good opinion I highly value, just as it was
| certain that whoever stood forward to defend, however
| feebly, a cherished belief of a large number of persons
| would find unexpected sympathy and agreement in his views.
| That there is very wide-spread interest in the questions at
! issue the state of my correspondence testifies; as it does,
further, that my position has not been so clearly defined in
| my previous papers as to guard against misconception.
I Doubtless the fault is mine, and it is my duty, frankly
| admitting so much, to do my best to state with more pre¬
cision what I mean. I cannot reply to my correspondents
personally. I hope they will pardon me if I embody what
I have to say in this general form.
This is abundantly proved to be necessary from the
criticisms and comments made upon me in The Spiritualist
of January 18th. My friend, Mr. Massey, Spiritualist and
Theosophist, metaphysician and lawyer, but, above all,
courteous gentleman and kindly critic, deals with my state¬
ments in a manner of which I have nothing to complain,
save in respect of the terms in which it pleases him to speak
of myself. I must disclaim altogether, with some feeling
of alarm, any right to speak in the representative character
assigned me, any power of influence such as he gives me,
and any intention of assaulting his belief or of defining my
own in such sort as he seems to imagine. In an argument
full of subtlety he selects such portions of my papers as are,
in his judgment, most amenable to attack, and deals with
me as the advocate of an u egotism of the affections,” and
a foe to Spiritualism in any scientific aspect, and especially
to Theosophy.
Miss Kislingbury, no less flattering in her criticism, and
no less in error as regards my position and intent, chides
me for lack of a patience and care ” in dealing with the
views of the Theosophists, and would fain see me u standing
as interpreter and reconciler between the Theosophists and
Spiritualists.” Thank you for nothing, my good friend.
Such a position, however honourable, is hardly to my taste.
I can fancy the shots that would whistle around my
astonished ears, as my feeble efforts at mediation failed to
please either party ; and I seem to hear afar off, even now,
the din of strife that would infallibly close upon me and
stifle me with its angry clamour. The tones used by my critics
are sweet, and the criticism is tempered as the wind to the
shorn lamb, but (if I am not much mistaken), even those
who now chide so sweetly could, and they would, assume a
sterner tone, and use their weapons more severely. At any
rate, they have at their command a veritable mitrailleuse in
Dr. Carter Blake, whose polysyllabic designation of my
paper, as ua multiform presentation of a poly-analystic
simulacrum of truth ” among other alternatives, has opened
out to my mind unimagined possibilities of invective,
equalled only by O’Connell’s overwhelming description of
the fish-fag as an isosceles triangle that kept a paral¬
lelepiped concealed in the back garret.
It is quite enough that I endeavour to interpret what I
know, without assuming a position, compared with which
the meddler with a conjugal quarrel would be pleasantly
placed.
In the effort to make clear what I have to say, I must
elect between answering my friends’ arguments seriatim
and stating on broad lines what my position is. It would
not be difficult to take Mr. Massey and Miss Kislingbury
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 25, 187S.
39
THE SPIRITUALIST.
line by line, and ground an effective answer, from my own j I
point of view, on what they have said respecting my views |j|
and opinions as they have understood them. But this would | j
inevitably lead to the emphasizing of minute points of dif- | |
ference, to literary criticism, to verbal analysis, and to the j j
consequent development of amwm, and to the obscuration ! j
of those broad points of agreement that exist between us. | i
lam strongly impressed with the feeling that he who stirs j j
up unnecessary strife accepts a position of grave responsibility j j
at any time ; and I believe, too, that the present is just one ! j
of those crises when it is desirable to minimize points of j j
divergence, and to throw one’s whole energy into emphasizing j I
the many and far more serious points of agreement which j |
exist among us,' and especially between my present critics j j
and myself. j j
I shall have private opportunity of answering any argu- j j
ments that, in their opinion, demand reply; and I hope, j |
therefore, they will not consider me lacking in courtesy, or !
inattentive to their instructive comments, if I do not reply ] |
to them now, except in as far as they are concerned with my (j
argument. Nor must it be assumed that arguments which j j
I do not answer I therefore deem unanswerable. I shall be jj |
quite ready to meet them at another time, when I have j i |
cleared away misconceptions. j j
It is desirable to go back, for a moment, to the manifesto | j
of the Theosophists in The Spiritualist of Dec. 9th. That j
utterance seems to me to mark a crisis to which events had
long been tending. Thoughtful minds had come, from
various causes, to question the received belief of the Spirit¬
ualists. Those who were most concerned with investigation
saw around them- much that filled them with perplexity.
Most of them had no personal evidence to rely on, and were
compelled to accept such as they could get at second hand, j
either from records or from observation in promiscuous j
circles where none expects that the special points on which |
I insist would be proved, or even illustrated. The tests of |
identity, of the return of the departed spirits of earth, of j
intercourse with personal friends, are not so obtained, save j
in rare cases. I
It came to pass, therefore, that the keenest minds found j
themselves without evidence of the return of departed spirits, |
and each evolved for itself a theory more or less sufficient to I
cover the facts within the observers’ personal knowledge, i
The negative evidence was strong against the hypothesis of j
the Spiritualist; the positive evidence pointed to acts and |
words which were strongly antagonistic to any such belief, j
Moreover, men’s prepossessions were ranged against the |
notion of human spirits so acting. They said indignantly j
that the acts were silly and the words frivolous, more cha- j
racteristic of the antics of a Pack, or sometimes of the gambols | j
of an animal, and even of the malignant mischief of anintelli- | j
gence destitute of moral consciousness, than of the manifes- j )
tation of the human mind of a responsible agent. By | |
degrees there grew in the minds of some of us a strong j |
conviction that these are not the people they pretend to be. j
Their highly-sounding names, their goody-goody talk, their j
evasion of anything like test and proof identity strengthened |
the conviction gathered from their acts. We have all of us, j
I suppose, felt the force of these conclusions. j
Others again had studied the phenomena of mesmerism, j j
and had arrived at strong opinions as to the power of the em- j j
bodied human spirit. There were some public manifestations j j
connected with Spiritualism that could not be explained on j !
the previous hypothesis, and some accounted for them by the j j
theory that the spirit of the medium was the operating j j
agency. These views have been so clearly stated by Dr. j j
Wyld in his late paper that I need not further allude to them, j |
Then we had to contend with the theories of men who, ! j
knowing nothing of the facts, found no difficulty in evolving j j
from their inner consciousness the camel that they needed in j
the shape of an all round theory. They scornfully told us j |
that we knew nothing about subjects which had engaged our | I
patient attention for years during which they were occupied i |
in asserting that no such phenomena existed. Spirits ! j |
Pooh! Look after your liver. Private circles! Pooh! !
Private lunatic asylums. You are besotted, mad, deluded, j
defrauded, victims of prepossession. Do you not know I
that the savage explains everything by means of spirits ? You !
are a mere savage, superstitious as a Red Indian, and not 1
quite as sensible. Revise 4 the simplicity of your early con •
elusions,’ and send the ghosts packing.”
So it came to pass that circumstances within the move¬
ment combined with materialistic criticism from without to
crush out the spirit theory, save in so far as we might keep
a few spooks to do the dirty work of circle-manifestation.
For the rest, spirits there were none that we ought to care to
associate with.
Those of us who had assured themselves beyond a perhaps
of the return of their own friends from beyond the grave, or
who had received from progressed intelligences words of in¬
struction and comfort in seasons of darkness and spiritual
desolation, were not sorry that the wholesale claims of
exoteric Spiritualism that none but the departed spirits of
humanity were at work should receive a check. They said
that it was not so; and they saw moreover, that their own
faith was largely imperilled by such credulity.
Tua res agitur quum proximus ardet Ucalegon.
The next row of houses was on fire, and they found it time
to look after themselves. Their belief therefore—their con¬
viction, their great and ucentral fact” as I called it—was
in abeyance so far as it was not insisted on in public, and
so far as it was overshadowed by a pushing cloud of other
theories. They had never wavered from it, never lost hold
on its consolations, but it had dropped into the background.
It was at this crisis that Colonel Olcott came forward with
the manifesto of Theosophy, and opened out a new depar¬
ture.” Familiar as I had been with the speculations of that
branch of Theosophical Science which is expounded by
Colonel Olcott—for it must not be forgotten that there is
another Theosophy of which Boehmen and Saint Martin are
the exponents, and which New York Theosophy ignores
altogether—I was startled at some of the statements made,
and sorry that they should have been put forward at such a
time. For that, of course, Colonel Olcott is not responsible.
He could not be supposed to be familiar with the progress
of the movement in England, except very superficially; and
even if he were he would have the same right to propound
his panacea, as I have to question its efficacy.
But, as a matter of fact, into the slightly troubled pool-
troubled, I should say, by a descending angel for the healing
of the waters—came a Theosophical rock hurled by the
vigorous arm of the President of the Theosophical Society,
and creating a huge splash.
It was then that as one who has satisfied himself of the
facts and who can give a reason for the faith that is in him, I
venture to defend my belief in intercourse with the ascended
spirits of humanity, and to claim for Spiritualism a field and
a mission wider than that conceded by its critics. In so
doing I did express my essential belief, but I also expressed,
in a passage quoted by Mr. Massey, my accord with much of
the incidental teaching of Theosophy. I did not think it
necessary, I do not now think it necessary, to proclaim the
exact lines of my assent. That concerns myself. I only
thought it well, in the interests of truth, to ask for some
evidence and even for proof of certain allegations. They
were to me mere word-balloons. I, or any one else, with a
speculative tendency could spin theories by the hour. What
is important in dealing with psychological questions, as it
seems to me, is to distinguish between a mere hypothesis,
and a warrantable deduction from observed fact, or an
accepted theory which has stood the test of time and is
unshaken.
It was, and is, on this ground alone that I propounded
my queries. Trained in the theology of the West, I have re¬
ceived from it such knowledge of the subject as concerns my
soul and its progress. That knowledge has been increased
and carried forward many degrees by the experiences of the
last eight years. I have learned to put aside somewhat of
the latter and to substitute for it the spirit of Christian
teaching. I have a coherent and reasonable scheme of
religious belief which centres round what to me is the purest
and holiest system of teaching that I know of—the teaching
of the Christ. I seek no better, for it tells me all that in
my present stage of progress I can grasp. I will not abandon
it, for it serves my needs, and before I cut myself loose from
it to swim across an angry sea to something that I can only
dimly discern in the distance, I must be quite sure that that
something is a haven of surer rest than that which I abandon.
40
fSE SPiniTtJALIST.
Jan. 25, 1878.
I see no such evidence, and can entertain no such faith. It
may be that a fuller acquaintance with what I only know very
imperfectly might alter my opinions. It may be that
Buddhism is the nobler faith—that it is a noble one, I know
—it may be that it suits others better than the faiths of the
West. But it must be recommended on some more solid
basis, and the philosophy that accompanies it must depend
on some stronger arguments than any I have yet seen before
I can accept it. Mr. Massey tells us that a authority is
abhorrent to the Western mind.”
It depends very much on the hind of authority. I must
assure my friends on both sides of me that they have mis¬
understood my position. I am not attacking anybody; I
am not separating myself from any with whom it has been
my privilege to act. I am not standing out on the side of
any set of men against any other set of men. I am in a
position of interrogation. I put my questions and pause for
my reply. I assert my belief in much that Colonel Olcott
propounds, and I am profoundly conscious of having derived
from him, and especially from the honoured teacher whose
views he expounds, much valuable light. But I am as far
as I ever was from abandoning the banner which my hand
has held for these seven years. I am occupied in holding it
up now, and my eye can detect no rent in it from the attacks
which it has sustained.
That some, that very many have no personal evidence of
the return of the departed is unfortunately true. I am so
far from denying that the evidence is not common that I lay
stress upon the fact. If it were, I should not be writing
this paper; for those who have achieved that platform of
faith would not need any arguments of mine to defend it.
That immortality is conditional is, or may be, a mislead¬
ing statement. What is meant by immortality ? Miss
.Kislingbury’s thoughtful and able letter is pervaded by a
fallacy. St. Paul and other writers, she tells me, propound
the theory of conditional immortality. The Church re¬
cognises it, and obviates the prospective annihilation by
baptism. The theory permeates the language of piety, and
is found in the parable of the sheep and the goats. I rubbed
my eyes when I read this, and looked up my references.
“ These shall go away into everlasting punishment; but the
righteous into life eternal.” Where is the conditional im¬
mortality there ? Both sheep and goats are immortal; one
in bliss, and the other in woe. The Bible gives no sanction
whatever to the notion of potential immortality. It roundly
asserts the indestructibility of the soul of man, and its end¬
less life in heaven or hell. What Miss K. means is not
immortality, but endless happiness; life eternal in opposi¬
tion to eternal torment. No conditional immortality, as
such, is predicated in the Christian system of any soul.
Mr. Massey makes much of my saying that some souls, by
deliberate and conscious choice, sink into annihilation, and
says that I am only separated by a thin division from the
theory I reject. I fail to see the cogency of his argument.
I do not know that any soul is ever annihilated. It may, as
I hold, sink into depths of woe, be deprived of light, and
live wholly in the filthy grovellings of a base material
existence. In such cases the spirit is starved, and it sinks
lower and lower until beyond spiritual ken. It then be
ruined, lost; as I also believe it may be saved. At any rate
the cases, if there be such, are the exceptions which, by their
rarity, only prove the rule.
This is a very different thing, surely, from that potential
winning of something not inherently ours, that survival of
the fittest, which Col. Olcott promulgates as a natural
appendage to the Darwinian system— a rule, not an exception.
It is another thing too from that notion of a separate over¬
shadowing soul, which may be withdrawn from me even
here. I believe that I Yi&vq within me that.which I cannot
lose, save by a course of wilful sin deliberately persisted in
to the bitter end, that which is mine to develops, cherish, to
preserve ; and this I value far more than that notion of a
far off gloomy, brooding Presence, which is no part of me,
though I may, perhaps, reach up to it; and which is so far
from being the heritage immortal in each, that it is only
gained by few.
This I hear of (as I should have said) for the first time
as a part of the Theosophist platform, which is propounded
to us by those of the inner ring” as a better guide to
happiness than Christian Theology,” as a part, in fact, of
u the Oriental religious philosophies.” I have read both
Mr. Maitland and Mr. Massey’s review of him; and when I
did so the idea jarred on me as strongly as it does now. I
find no room for it in my system of religion, no counten¬
ance for it on the Western theology which I know, and no
beauty that I should accept it in preference to what I hold
as a “ more excellent way” of belief.
This, be it observed, is the attitude of inquiry. If there
are reasons why we Westerns should accept an Eastern
philosophy or religion, why we Spiritualists should abandon
one faith in favour of a new belief, let those reasons be set
forth with exactitude.
* It remains for me, leaving out much that I should like to
say, to correct a misapprehension caused by my own words.
I said that the return to us of the departed spirits of
humanity was the centralfact in Spiritualism. I do not, on
reflection, maintain that position. I have already pointed
out how the truth slipped into the background, and while,
to me, from my own experience, it is a great truth, an
assured fact, I quite see and understand that many share
Mr. Massey’s position, and have no personal evidence of the
fact. I can readily see what a difference that would make
in my mind.
Two lines will be sufficient for me to supply any omission
which might be deemed uncourteous to my friends. If
my words seem to be those of an antagonist, I beg them to
believe that I write nothing in opposition; nothing in any
interest save that of truth; and, I maintain, a mind free,
not only from prejudice, but, I hope, from any feeling that
could hinder me from receiving new truth. My position
as yet is one that has undergone no change. A Spiritualist
convinced of the truth of spiritual communion, I plead
guilty to no if egotism of the emotions,” any more than I
should to any such charge levelled against any display of my
affections. I have affections, and I have emotions; and I
am not ashamed of their legitimate exercise. I have known
the impulses of affection to be true when the logic of the
brain is at fault. I know the use, and I know the misuse
of the emotional side of nature, and I am hardly likely to
be accused of giving too loose a rein to enthusiasm.
Convinced, moreover, of the necessity of rigid investiga¬
tion and careful scrutiny of all alleged facts, I am anxious
to reduce to lines of scientific observation all that can be so
treated. I earnestly desire to look into every phase of truth
and to listen with attention to all who can teach me any¬
thing. I must be allowed to say that I do or do not agree
with my teachers, and in so far I have a Western abhorrence
of Authority, and no further. I have my own experience
which I cannot give to others, my own faith which I will
not yield, though I would gladly share it with my friends.
I know what I believe, and why, and am prepared to defend
myself. But of late I have felt as one might feel who saw a
living and breathing body strapped to the operating table
whilst various Theorists, each with the scalpel that he has
made, is hacking and hewing its limbs and familiar linea¬
ments in pieces, in the hope of finding evidence of his idea
And meantime the spirit has well-nigh fled, and the
surgeons stand in grievous risk of assisting at the autopsy
of a corpse.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES If OR INVESTIGATORS.
A seance for inquirers was held at 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, on Wednesday, the 16th January, Mr.
William Eglinton being the medium.
Mr. Eglinton sat as usual with his legs and feet exposed
to the light, his coat being sewn at the elbows, cuffs, and
breast, besides being bound to his chair with tape tied in
a very artistic manner by, I believe, a sceptical investi¬
gator.
The voice known as “Joey’s” was soon heard, and he
at once pronounced the circle to be a very harmonious one.
After a few friendly greetings to some old friends, he gave
several manifestations of his power, by ringing the bell,
playing on the Oxford chimes, shaking hands with two
ladies, and raising the cover of a book when placed on the
medium’s knees. He also desired that a piece of paper and
Jan. 25, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
41
a pencil should be placed on the medium’s lap, when he
wrote short messages to two of those present. He also, at
request, wrote some words in the pocket book of one of the
inquirers.
He finished the seance by desiring that some one should
enter the cabinet immediately after a hand had appeared;
this was done, and the inquirer found the medium’s hands
securely fastened.
These seances are doubtless very valuable, inasmuch as
new investigators really begin at the beginning and in the
light. As “ Joey ” says, they learn their ABC before
being puzzled and astonished by the higher phenomena.
John Jambs,
For the Seance Committee, in Charge.
MAN AS A SPIRIT.
BY GEORGE \VTLD, M.D., EDIN.
The paper by Colonel Olcott on The Views of the Theo-
sophists, and my paper on Man as a Spirit have had this
good effect—they have evoked a bolder, stronger, and more
profound expression of opinion on these occult subjects than
might otherwise have occupied the pages of The Spiritualist.
In the place of a continual reiteration of phenomenal papers,
there have been initiated a series of papers by men and ||
women profoundly in earnest, and the result must be for !{
good. i
It is possible that this discussion may divide the Spiritual \\
Church into two schools, the high and the low, the esoteric 1
and the exoteric ; but let us rather believe that the end may !
be the establishment of a broad church of spiritual truth and j
love.
With reference to the criticisms on my paper, I would,
with Mr. Massey, most strongly dissent from the statement [;
of u M.A., Oxon.,” that a belief in our intercourse with the t
spirits of the departed is the cardinal doctrine of our faith, I
the heart and corner-stone of Spiritualism.” I trust sin- j|
cerely it is not so, for if it were, our faith would appear to !'
me to rest on a most dangerous and untrustworthy founda- !
tion. The essence of true Spiritualism is to me the convic- |
tion that I am a spirit, a part of the great Central • Spirit,
and, as such, possess the capabilities of spiritual powers here,
and the inheritance of a spiritual life hereafter. That the j
spirits of the departed do from time to time reappear in our j
midst we all admit, and that spirits of a low order may from j
time to time produce physical phenomena I also admit; but i
I maintain that the spirits of the living also appear and dis- j
appear as doubles, and that other spiritual phenomena can
also be produced by these spirits. ;
“ M.A., Oxon.,” characterises my theory as “ a scientific -
something which may amuse the savanF If this is all the
effect which my paper has produced on his mind, then I
feel that he has not comprehended its essence, for in my
paper I attempt to express views which have more or less
occupied my mind for thirty-nine years, and the writing of j
which was produced under strong emotion of the mind.
I repeat—Man is a Spirit, and as such possesses the same j
powers as the spirits of the departed. Further, I maintain j
that when he is entranced he is in proportion to the depth j
of his entrancement more or less a departed spirit.
When a clairvoyant travels, say five thousand miles in a j
few minutes, and reveals to us the secrets of those at that j
distance, that clairvoyant is a departed spirit.
Again, if chairs and tables are moved by departed spirits,
so also can chairs and tables be moved by the spirit-force of
the adept. If a foreign spirit can materialise itself, so also
can the adept bring before us animal and human forms; and
if the ghost of the departed now and again reappear, so also
does the double of the living.
If so, then it must become a difficult problem to deter¬
mine what proportion of physical phenomena are produced
by the spirits of the departed, and what proportion by the
spirits of the living.
It has been objected that the phenomena produced by
adepts are the result of intense will power; but on the other
hand the double is generally projected not only without an
effect, but without even the knowledge of the living man,
and if so, why should other physical phenomena not also be
produced, without our consciousness. The clairvoyante is in
her normal condition unconscious of her clairvoyance, why
should she not be equally unconscious of the physical opera¬
tions of her unknown spirit ?
If it is again asked how can the spirits of the living pro¬
duce the phenomena without our consciousness? I reply
the soul or earthly man does not know the spirit man, for
the spirit is hidden within him. This has always been the
view I have held, and I therefore feel much indebted to Mr.
Fawcett, who, in The Spiritualist of the 11th January, quotes
Swedenborg thus: “Every man has an inferior or exterior
mind, and a mind interior or superior. These two minds
are altogether distinct, by the inferior mind man is in the
natural world together with men there; but by the superior
j mind he is in the spiritual world with angels there. These
j two minds are so distinct that man, so long as he lives m
| the world, does not know what is performing within him-
1 self in his superior mind, and when he becomes a spirit
| which is immediately after death [or entrancement] he does
I not know what is performing in his inferior mind.”—A.C.,
527.
I arrived at my view from my study of entrancement, and
Swedenborg did so, I presume, in his own entranced con¬
dition.
I must again refer my readers to my diagram.
*
F
' E
D
x—   0 X
a
B
A
A B represents the soul or earth man. G the balance
point between the soul and spirit, and D E F the spirit man.
x x represents the wall of partition or river of oblivion
separating the two worlds.
By this diagram it can be seen how the soul does not
know the spirit, or the spirit know the soul, although it is
said of A. J. Davis that from frequent entrancement his
soul and spirit are more or less conscious of each other, and
in our perfect condition “ the spirit will bring all things to
our remembrance,” and thus complete the two in one
identity. In our present imperfect condition the two are in
a state of confusion or antagonism. “ The flesh [or soul]
lusteth against the spirit and the spirit lusteth against the
flesh [or soul].”
When the soul returns to its normal condition from en¬
trancement it passes through the point of oblivion, C, in
total ignorance of the wisdom of its entranced condition.
The second grand objection to my theory is that it is
monstrous to say that our controls are our own spirits, for
we ourselves are simple, honest men; but if my control calls
itself Dictator or Excelsior, it must be a liar.if it is my own
spirit.
This objection is at first sight a difficulty, but my dia¬
gram may enable us to see how it may be solved.
But, in the first place, the term liar is, I think, too
strong; and if I were disposed to accept of it, might I not
reply : Dictator, Excelsior (or any other title, not being the
names of any human beiugs) are in giving these signatures
not altogether truthful; and if it is said these are the mere
signs of departed spirits who give privately their true
names, it might be asked why withhold the true name ? If
the revelations are true and the individuals objective realities,
why not declare themselves and permit us to judge of their
identity by internal evidence ?
However, to return, I would remark that entrancement is
of every gradation from mere spirit reverie at D, in my
diagram, to philosophic entrancement at E, and ecstatic
entrancement in God at F.
If so, then the entranced soul, passing into spirit life as
far as D, only reaches the place of spirit reverie, or dream¬
ing, and is in a condition to receive any impression presented
to it or dictated to it,
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 25, 1878.
Let- us for a moment illustrate this theory by the facts of
what is called electro-biology.
Take, say, John Young, and partly mesmerise him into
the state of reverie, and then ask him his name. He at once
replies, u John Young.” The operator replies, (f No ; you
are Thomas Knox.” The youth replies, r No ; I am John
Young.” The operator imperiously asserts, “I tell you, sir,
your name is Thomas Knox.” The patient replies, “Well,
that is queer; but I now know I am Thomas Knox.”
The operator proceeds further, and says, “You are quite
mistaken; you are not Thomas Knox; you are only a chair.”
Thomas Knox finds this rather .too much, and resents the
insult; but the operator again imperiously insists on it that
he is a chair. Thomas Knox now gives in, and says, “ Well,
that is queer; but I now see and feel that I am a chair.”
Apply these facts to the spirit man at D. He occupies in
the spirit life the corresponding position to the earth man
at B. He is in the position of spirit reverie, and can be, by
his own soul, or by dreamy spirits surrounding him, biolo-
gised into the belief of anything, and in such instances
may declare himself to be Dictator, Excelsior, Plato, or
Benjamin Franklin.
This is the explanation I would give of many of our com¬
munications from the supposed spirits of the departed. It
is the view I have always held, and, much to my satisfaction,
I met with a corroboration of this view on reading, for the
first time, the Seeress of Prevorst last week. The Seeress
says, in effect, “ The spirit should be true and dominate
over the soul; but if pressed by the soul with questioning,
the spirit may consent to lie.”
The soul of any man possessing a dominant idea will
dominate over his own spirit until that spirit has risen so
high into the heavens as to assume the master and dominion
over the soul for its salvation.
But it may be replied we have high inspirational speakers
and writers whose assertion is that they are controlled by
foreign spirits possessing definite names. To this objection
I would still reply that the souls of these writers and speakers
may still dominate their spirits.
The view I take is, that when our spirits are highly
entranced they are not controlled by departed human spirits,
but are bathed, as it were, in the light, and wisdom, and
knowledge of “ the spirits of the just made perfect,” and
dwelling with the angels and with the spirit of God—utter
the oracle “ Thus saith the Lord.” They never address us
in the third person, they are not controlled, they do not sur¬
render their own individuality, but as spirit born men and
women speak the words of wisdom, truth, and holiness.
No Hebrew prophet was ever controlled by any departed
spirit, and no evangelist ever spoke but as from his own
God enlightened spirit, and Christ spoke from himself as the
divine messenger. It is true as Scrutator suggests that
Moses and Elias and angels came to Christ, but they came
to comfort and(’ minister to Him, but never to control
Him.
I do not deny that earth-bound spirits or “ elementaries ”
may control our mediums, but I would urge that it is safer,
wiser, and holier by a perfect life to develop the angel which
is within us, and to establish him as our own familiar spirit,
our daily guide and friend, and “ Comforter, who will guide
us into all truth.”
The early mesmerisers, knowing nothing of foreign spirit
controls, produced clairvoyants who reasoned and spoke in
their own spirit personality, and it is only since the subject of
Spiritualism has become popularised that the idea of spirit
control has become so prevalent.
For some time past I have had the assistance of Bella
Tilley in cases of difficult diagnoses. So far as I can j udge
her medical opinion and advice when entranced have always
been correct. While she herself in her normal condition is a
most simple and truthful young woman. When she first
came to me, she said an Indian spirit, a boy with a cloth only
round his middle always came to her, and gave her medical-
insight and knowledge, and that his name was Wise-Acre.
One day I said to her I think it is not Wise-Acre, but your
own spirit which sees the cases. She replied, “ I always see
Wise-Acre.” Months passed without further remarks on the
subject, but only the other day she said to me, il I never see
Wise-Acre now, I can’t think what has become of him.” I
{} replied, ft But you see cases as well as ever, how is that?”
m “ Well, I don’t know I just see the cases myself.”
m The bearing of this confession on the question before us,
j(j seems tome most important. It is true Bella Tilley is a
|| simple young woman without any knowledge of theories or
| I philosophies, but her evidence may be all the more valuable
| I on that account, for deep things are sometimes “ hidden from
| | the wise and prudent, and revealed unto babes.”
| With these views I must emphatically deny that Scrutator
I has any ground for saying “ our own spirits are, according
| to Dr. Wyld, all liars on principle.”
| I never denied that Home could see spirits; I only
| expressed the belief that when he saw and described
my deceased cousin, he saw her in my mind. Scrutator
| | also thinks that the hidden angel and the kingdom of
| I heaven within us, of which I speak, must be falsities if they
| | so mislead us ; but I have explained that the spirit in the
| | state of reverie is not an angel of light, and that the spirit
,l | on its journey to heaven, if it pass through the region of
( spirit reverie is, for the time, in a purgatorial rather than in
i I a heavenly condition.
Scrutator also fears that “modern Spiritualism may dribble
| | away into mere psychology.” But I reply that true psycho-
| logy, or the wisdom of the soul, is destined to rescue modern
I I Spiritualism from the dangers of a superstitious idolatry.
! i “Regard not them who have familiar spirits : neither seek
|f unto wizards, to be defiled by them. I am the Lord thy
| God. (Lev. xix. 31.)
I For scientific purposes the physical phenomena, whether
j produced by the spirits of the dead or of the living are pro-
I foundly important, for it is thus, possibly, that the mystery
| j of matter may be revealed to us.
1 • But physical mediums are subject to great trials and
j temptations, and often are injured in body and mind just
j in proportion to their mediumistic powers. This fact alone
I ! would indicate that the highest Spiritualism is not thus to
j be evolved. Spirits would appear to feed on mediums as
j( vampires. Such spirits cannot be holy.
|| Swedenborg tells us that in spirit life “ we surround our-
| selves with the forms of our affections.” How profoundly
j important, then, must it be that we “set our affections on
i i things above,” and how imminent must be the danger of
| | that man who trusts more to the control of a foreign departed
| | human spirit than to “ the still small voice” speaking in his
| ! soul—the Holy Spirit of the living God.
i) j 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
A REMARKABLE MATERIALISATION SEANCE.
I BY A. J. CHANS TOUN.
Mr. Colley informs me that he has written to you
| relative to Mr. de Yeh’s letter; now, in response to what
| you required from me in a late Spiritualist, with reference
I to that same letter, I hasten to inform you that this even-
| ing our circle held a seance at my house, with Dr. Mo nek,
| during which, first, a female form (Alice) materialised and
| remained with us for a short time. Afterwards a male
I materialised form appeared, which from its voice I believe
| to be Samuel Wheeler; this form walked about the room
and spoke to me a few words. Afterwards the Mahadi
! was materialised just as fully and as perfectly as I ever
I saw him at Dr. Monck’s rooms. He walked about the
| room with all the apparent volition and power of any living
| man, and remained with us for at least half an hour.
I shall send you fuller details of. this seance, but I think
| it better to give you this short note, hastily written, so
I that it may be in time for you to add to Mr. Colley’s
| letter.
I may add that Dr. Monck was never out of our sight,
I and remained in the same room with us during these
| three manifestations. The light was very good (once or
| twice turned up to the full), and enabled us to see the
I manifestations with the greatest accuracy.
} 23, Gathcart-road, S.W., Tuesday eYening, January 22nd, 1878.
At the fortnightly meeting of the National Association of Spirit-
| ualists, on Monday evening next, to be held at 38, Great Russell-street,
i Mr. C. C. Massey will read a paper on “Ideas of Time, Space, and
< Substance,”
43
Jan. 25, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST.
A TEST SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS. I |
Last Wednesday night Mr. C. E. Williams, professional | j
medium, gave a seance in the dark at the residence of Miss j j
Ottley, 41, Denbigh-street, Pimlico, London, whose house m
he had never entered in his life before. m
During the whole of the manifestations one of his hands (I
was held by Miss Ottley, and the other by her friend, Mr. m
Inglefield. jjl
Under these conditions, playing musical instruments |
belonging to the residents in the house, flew about over j j
the heads of the sitters, touching the heads gently in their j |
flight; a hand-bell was several times knocked against the j j
high ceiling by request, and the same was done by a banjo; j j
also, the materialised spirit “John King” appeared four j j
times robed in white, floating over the centre of the table, j |
his head, eyes, nose, beard, and drapery being seen by all j j
present, by means of a phosphorescent-looking light in his ! j
hands, which flashed up momentarily. All this time the j j
medium’s hands were held as stated, so his whereabouts was ! j
satisfactorily accounted for. I
When at the close of the seance a light was struck, a I
music stool was found on the top of the table; it had been !
lifted over the heads of the sitters and placed there so gently, j
that nobody knew till they saw it, that it had been moved j j
from its usual position. j |
The witnesses- to these phenomena were Miss Ottley, Miss j j
Emmet, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, the Chevalier Habicht, j j
Mr. Inglefield, Miss Laura Emmet, and Mr. W. H. Harrison, j j
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan is about to leave Paris for San Francisco. | |
The publication of reports of recent meetings of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, and of the Psychological Society, is unavoidably
postponed till next week. <
Mr. Quarmby, of Oldham, wishes to return his best thanks to all the !)
Spiritualist friends who have shown him civilities, and have given him j
facilities for attending their meetings and witnessing manifestations | |
during his recent stay in London. | j
After Dr. Slade’s return to Berlin from Vienna, the chief of the j j
criminal department of police at the former place proceeded to worry i) j
him for having no recognised means of subsistence, and told him that j j j
he must leave the country. He and his party have accordingly left for j j j
St. Petersburg, where his powers will be tested by a scientific com- | |
mittee. What are the American ambassadors at foreign courts doing j j
about this intolerant treatment of an American subject, who has won H
the good-will at home and abroad of all who have had the honour of I
knowing him ? U
Suffering for Conscience’ Sake.—We mentioned last week that Mr. j) |
Henry Pride, a well-known Liverpool Spiritualist, had been fined the j j
full penalty and costs for refusing to have his children vaccinated. Mr. jj j
Pride has thus met his sixth summons for preferring private judgment )
to public opinion. The St. Pancras Gazette, of the 19th inst., reports j j
the decision of the St. Pancras Guardians to prosecute afresh Mr. [j
William Tebb, of Regent’s-park, for a like offence. Mr. Tebb has Ic
already been convicted five times. In view of these continuous prose- |y;
cutions, we should like to ask an energetic vaccinator on what ground !) |
he would condemn Smithfield fires, or the Spanish inquisition, or witch- j j j
burning, if public opinion were in favour of the same ? No doubt I j
Parliament does not wish to punish people for their convictions, so could I) I
not some middle course be adopted ? Could not some system of regis- i (
tration of unvaccinated individuals be established, and their subsequent i
liability to small-pox watched? Could not non-vaccination, under jj
certain restrictions be recognised by the law ? What medical men say j
about vaccination is of little value, for we all know that they and their j (
journals often state what is not true about psychological phenomena.
Anti-Vivisection. — Last Tuesday morning a number of friends j \
assembled at the invitation of Mrs. Gordon, at 11, Leinster-gardens, j
London, to receive information respecting the objects and work of the It
London Anti-Vivisection Society. Lord William Lennox presided, and |
among the speakers were the Rev. Mr. Strickland, the Rev. Sinclair I j
Pattison, M.D., Mr. Francis, Dr. Ward, Dr. De Noe Walker, and Mr. j
R. Cooke. The various speakers advocated the abolition of vivisection j
on moral, scriptural, and other grounds. It was broadly laid down that j /
it was wrong to do evil that good might come; that there was no j(
evidence that good had been done to any great extent by vivisection ; i j
that the onus of proof of any good having been done rested with vivi- jj
sectionists; that supposing any good had been done, it would be better j j
to suffer pain personally than to subject to torture helpless animals who jj
had no remedy at law or otherwise. The last sentiment was loudly j
applauded. It was stated that further information as to the objects and jj
aims of the society might be obtained of the secretary, 180, Brompton- jj
road, S.W. Several votes of thanks were given at the close, including jj
one to Mrs. Gordon for having brought the subject under the considera- jj
tion of those present, and which was responded to by Mr, Gordon, M.P. j j
A SUBSTITUTE FOR THE REINCARNATION THEORY.
BY ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE.
While having a sitting a few days since with that excel¬
lent trance medium, Mr. Fletcher, I was informed that in
most cases the connection between a person and his
guardian spirit is one of mutual advantage. With very few
exceptions those who quit this world have not obtained
from it all that it is intended to supply of intellectual and
moral training, and until they have done this they are un¬
able to quit the earth and set out on the path of purely
spiritual advancement. In order to obtain such training
it is necessary that they should attach themselves to some
person with whom they are both physically and mentally
in harmony, and through him obtain the new ideas and
ever growing knowledge of the earth-life. To this person
they impart, by mental impression, ideas and impulses
connected with matters of which they may have a more
extended knowledge. These impressions can be best com¬
municated while the recipients are in a somewhat passive
mental state, and I was much struck by the remark that
while our first ideas and impulses are usually our own (as
no impression can be given while our minds are actively
engaged), our second thoughts on the matter are often those
of our spirit guides, such thoughts appearing to come to
us, we know not how, at a time when we had ceased to
think actively on the subject. The well-known saying,
“ Second thoughts are best,” may thus have a deep spiritual
meaning. Of course, it is not to be supposed that all second
thoughts have this origin. The more thought we give to
a subject the more likely we are to arrive at correct conclu¬
sions ; but how often, after having as we think settled a
question satisfactorily, an idea occurs which we describe by
saying, “It has just struck me that I had better do so-and-
so,” and we do it and find it for the best; though while
ourselves earnestly thinking of the matter this particular
course of action had quite escaped us.
Now, if this intimate communion between a spirit and a
man is as necessary to the former as it is beneficial to the
latter, it may be described as a spiritual reincarnation by
which the spirit is enabled to complete that preparation
for a higher life which is, on the spiritual hypothesis, the
sole explanation and justification of the existence of a
material universe. And, further, if this spiritual reincar¬
nation, the reality of which such ample proofs are given in
the writings of every class of Spiritualists, does really serve
the purpose of carrying on the earthly education of spirits,
there can be no need for that actual material reincarnation
of which fully one half the spirits who communicate with
us profess their entire ignorance.
I have little doubt that these ideas have been already
better expressed by others, but they certainly struck me as
being both suggestive and novel, and coming as they pro¬
fessed to do directly from a spirit-guide, they were very
impressive.
I may here add that my first sitting with Mr. Fletcher
a few weeks ago carried to my mind a fuller conviction of
the reality of spirit life than all the physical phenomena
I have ever witnessed. There was no absolute test, but I
obtained information and advice which I value greatly, and
the whole of the communications were given in a form which
could not have been obtained from my own mind, even
though most of the actual facts were within my knowledge.
The reading of a paper by Miss Kislingbury, at a meeting of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, has been postponed
until Feb. 4th, at her request.
Materialisation Phenomena.—The Rev. Thomas Colley, late curate
of Portsmouth, writes:—I have this evening, Jan. 22nd, 1878, at Mr.
Cranstoun’s residence, 23, Cathcart-road, South Kensington, seen three
forms successively grow from Dr. Monck, and walk about the drawing¬
room easily and naturally in a good light, sometimes turned up to the
full; first, a female form named “ Alice; ” next, “Samuel Wheeler,”
speaking with voice as when entrancing his medium ; and last “ The
Mahedi,” who stayed with us about half an hour in all courteous
familiarity, and then, as with the others, was reabsorbed into the body of
Dr. Monck, he never out of our sight for one moment.
44
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Jan. 25, 1878,
arflOTaponxience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the ivriters.]
THE EFFICACY OF CURSING.
Sir,—Knowing your interest in all tested and proved spiritual experi¬
ences, possibly you may find a corner in your valuable paper for the
following.
Some months since I had to give up my bed to my daughter Lady
L and her infant. To improvise a bed on a lounge in my room was
the work of a few moments, and night after night I lay awake thinking
seriously about various troubles. One night a spirit spoke, whose voice
I did not recognise, though I felt that it was a kind friend who was
speaking. After bidding me “ Grood evening,” he asked how it was I
had exercised so little judgment when God had given me reason to
guide me ? This puzzled me, for I could form no idea of what was
meant, when he said, “ Do you mean to tell me you are not aware of
the dire influence of the lounge you are lying on? ’’ I answered that 1
knew nothing about it. He then said, “ It was the favourite seat and
lounge of a drunkard, who, not content with the poison he put into it
by his diseased mesmeric influence, also put a curse on it, as to no rest
to any one who should even sit or lie on it, and you are being thoroughly
poisoned by it, so be advised by me, and send it out of the room.’’
Early the next morning I sent a message to the landlady, asking her
if any such person had ever used this lounge, when she told me that an
invalid (who had died from drunkenness) never would sit or lie on any
other seat, and, when dying, “ he put a curse on it, that no one should
ever rest on it.1' On having this “cursed” lounge removed, I was
puzzled to know where to find another bed, and was in the act of asking
the servant to give me the sofa from the drawing-room, when again this
spirit spoke, and said, “ No! Take the small bed from your maid and
use it, as it is freer from this dire influence.” I did so, but kept the
same bed and bed-clothes, when again the spirit came, and said,
“ Where is your reason ? What is the use of removing the poisonous
lounge when you keep the bed that has lain on it, and the bed-clothes
tucked about it ? ” I then remonstrated, saying that the sheets had only
been put on the night before, when this quaint answer was given,
“Every physician is entitled to his fee, so I will accept the laundress’s
price as my fee; put your own bed on it, and never tamper with your¬
self by changing again, as you are too sensitive for such experiments.”
I then said rather irritably, “ If you saw this months since, why have
you not told me before?” The answer was, “Asa rule, we are not
allowed to interfere with your reason and intelligence, suffering being
the developing of such; but I could not bear to see you suffer so fear¬
fully, hence my outspoken warning.”
To-day, while reading of the death of a dear old friend, a celebrated
homoeopathic physician, of New York (Dr. Carroll Dunham), the spirit
said,“ Now, do you know who it was who warned you as to that lounge ?”
On my asking him how he had traced me, as years had passed since I
last wrote him, he said that he had unexpectedly met my brother (who
had also been a physician at New York), and, on inquiring after me,
had been told I had long been a great sufferer; he then volunteered to
visit me, and immediately saw my ignorance of these common laws of
mesmerism, and with his old skill gave me relief. There is one thing
I would observe here, my brother being an allopath, never relieved me
of any pain, while among the numbers of other physicians I had tried,
I never met with one so successful as the dear, good Dr. Carroll
Dunham, who for twenty-six years was a true friend as well as skilful
physician, and in all the cavilling as to Christianity (?), my whole soul
goes out in thankfulness to God for the knowledge of our beautiful
Spiritualism, showing that death does not stultify the heart nor intelli¬
gence. The individuality of this spirit was indicated by his usual
prompt diagnosing the cause of the suffering, and his usual prompt
relief, setting at defiance all old stereotyped rules. X.
THE SANDOWN MURDERER.
Sir,—Seeing in The Spiritualist paper of the 11th Jan. a statement
made at a seance regarding a murder committed in Sandown in 1860,1
have made some inquiry as to whether the circumstance was true. It
appears quite true, and the man was a sergeant, or what some say a
gunner. His name was Whitworth (not Walworth). He killed his wife
and six children in the Fort, and afterwards cut his throat, falling down
in the room, where he remained till about twelve o’clock the next day,
when he left the Fort, and met a man of the name of Robert Hoar, to
whom he stated that some one had killed his wife and children. He was
bleeding, but Hoar thought he had been fighting. Whitworth then
went to the Barracks at the upper end of the town, where he reported
himself, and stated he had committed the deed. He was afterwards sent
to Winchester for trial, but being in an unsound state of mind was sent
to a lunatic asylum.
Robert Hoar, who has given the above statement, thinks he died about
six months afterwards. Other parties think he was living till very
recently.
He was considered a sober man. Should you wish further inquiries
made, shall be happy to do it. Robert Nunn.
Elibank, Sandown, Isle of "Wight, Jan. 17th.
MORE SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE DARK.
Sir,—It is a long time since I have written to you, and for the old
simple reason that—“ Story, God bless you! I had none to tell, sir.” In
my last I mentioned how Firman had been summoned over to England
on account of the alarming condition of his mother. He remained
absent five weeks. After his return it was about five weeks more
before any manifestations came through him. It took all of the Count
II j de Bullet’s wonderful patience and perseverance to persist under such
j 11 discouragement. But we had several times before experienced the fact
|) I that, after a “great upset,” the revival of Firman’s singular medium-
j j! ship is a slow and difficult process. So we persevered, even after hope
i) | had sank very low with us, though John King would still strive to keep
i) | its flickering flame alive by his words, spoken and written, which were
| s I pretty much all we could get. At last incipient and partial success in
|) i photography in the dark began, together with an occasional sSance of the
i (| old sort, in which certain materialised faces and forms would show
| j | more or less well. The photographs at first would come very im-
|)! perfectly. Still they were positive facts of spirit-photography in the
i I i dark, and as such were, each and all, important facts—important as
III facts and as encouragement to perseverance. In these matters failures
! j j are often not less instructive and convincing than successes. At last
i 11 within the past fortnight we have had a number of good and satisfactory
| {| photographs. They have been entirely of the two beautiful young girl
I j spirits, “Angela” and “Alexandrine.” There have been efforts to
! | photograph my mother, but thus far unsuccessful, she having less
i “fluidic” strength to hold together well and long enough before the
! ) uncapped camera. They are all now draped. You know that in several
! | instances before such was not the case.
| j I may mention another point. At the outset of this spirit-photography
! I in the dark. I was not actually in the seance room during the opera-
! j | tion. My business was to be in the adjacent room, separated only by a
i i | door, with a view to my counting on my watch, in the light, the allotted
| ) i number of minutes for the poses. When all would be ready to begin,
i j! in the seance room, where I knew that there existed no possible earthly
| j [ means of creating artificial light available for photography, I would
111 pass out, the Count alone remaining inside to uncap and recap the
| (I camera, and then to replace a new glass for another attempt. I thus
i | ] could not then declare myself to have been an actual eye-witness of the
! | j black dark in which the pictures were impressed on the sensitised
11; collodion, but his testimony was quite equivalent to that of my own
|) j presence. (I repeat that the Count always brought each day new and
I) | fresh plates.) But through all this subsequent period of over a fort-
| j | night, I have been inside the seance room of the dark photography. I
j) j can, therefore, add my own personal ocular testimony (superfluous as it
] | ] may be) to that which before I had derived from the Count de Bullet—
| (| to the effect that here was this marvellous fact of, first, a black dark
| j | seance room or cabinet, in which was put up a camera, containing a
| ] i fresh new collodionised and sensitised plate just brought by the Count
I (i (sometimes two or three of them); second, of the whole photographic
!) i operation being done without the presence, in that black dark room, of
i j j a ray of what we know as “ lightthird, of the directing spirit, called
Mi “ John King,” having given his directions when to uncap the camera,
! 11 and afterwards when to recap it, the pose of the spirit from before it
I j j being said to be finished; fourth, then the plate (supposed or hoped to
j | i have been impressed), being taken out by the Count, and by him put
; 11 through the ordinary process of the development, as any photographer
j 11 would conduct it; and then, fifth, sometimes nothing appearing on the
| i plate (failure), or else at other times faces or figures, more or less per-
|) I feet, appearing there—and no mistake; with what the French call “ the
| j | brutal factthat is to say the simple downright fact, as testified after-
| ! wards by the printing of them by the photographer, Fontaine, Boulevard
!) | des Capucines.
11! The latter, by the way, knows nothing of Spiritualism, nor of the
j \ i origin of the plates thus brought to him. All that we have told him is
| I j that they were taken in the dark. “ Then it is not photographyhe
| (j said, “ but some other chemical action.” But it is photography, and
111 at the same time a chemical action; for John King’s exposition of
| M it is that he collects the elements of those portions of light,” the actinic
m or chemical rays, which alone act chemically on the sensitized collo-
i | j dion, though invisible to our eyes. These pictures are therefore produced
5) j by precisely the same chemical light which acts in ordinary photography.
| j | Once only it was [made visible to the Count, in a great, irregularly
111 round mass of brilliancy, about a couple of feet in diameter, with a con-
i j siderable number of outlying bits of flight, from the size of an orange to
■( | a small point. Mrs. Firman, who is clairvoyant, has spoken of seeing
| | what she called a “ sort of gangway of light,” from the spirit posing to
II i the circular opening of the camera.
i | j The plates never show the slightest trace of background, though the
I) i figures pose close in front of a curtain, which hangs in vertical folds.
|) | In ordinary light these folds of the curtain would certainly show on the
i j i photograph. I have asked John King whether any of the light which
j j j he collected and cast on the spirit forms, to be thence reflected to the
II i camera, was also cast on the background, or whether it was confined to
! j i the figures. “ Very little,” he replied; “ we can’t afford to waste it on
j j | background.”
i | He has told us more than once that it is hard work for him, because he
i ] has to do two distinct operations. “ I have first to materialise the forms,
| | and then to make the light. Sometimes, before I can get up the light,
III the form has melted away, and by the time I get it together again, the
111 light has faded. That is why we have so many failures. The atmo-
| i Spheric conditions must be good, and the power must be strong.” He has
| | told us that with time and perseverance we shall get photographs as
i (I perfect as any taken in the sunlight.
| j We have tried the experiment of blending natural material objects
ij | with the materialised spirit forms, by bringing artificial flowers (a
| j i full-blown tea rose, and two bunches of violets, the one dark, the other
j) | light), and requesting that they should put them in their hair or in
ij j their hands. And it was done with perfect success. The rose came
jj | finely in the hair of “Angela,” and, on the same day, when
I the Count brought the two bunches of violets, they appeared in
the hair of “Angela” and “Alexandrine,” standing side by
side. Also to-day the Count brought a long piece (six metres) of violet-
coloured gauze stuff, with a view to its being employed in the drapery of
! the forms, as they might please, The result has been a very fine picture
Jan. 25, 1878. THE SPIEITUALIST. 45
of “Angela” with this gauze veil thrown over her head, framing her |(
beautiful face, and then wrapped over her figure over other drapery j j
visible under it. In regard to these flowers and stuff John King has ;/
required them to be put inside the cabinet just before beginning, so as to 11
be “ mesmerised.” I once asked if that was necessary, for them to be j
acted on by his light. “ Certainly,” he at once replied, “how could ||
they otherwise appear in the picture ? ” |(
For several days (in view of my near departure for California) he has |!
been trying to “bring forward” my mother, but thus far without j/
success. He promises that if he does not succeed before I leave, it ! j
will be done afterwards, and the picture sent to me. It was a long time j j
before Angela and Alexandrine succeeded. “Angela” wrote to-day ij
(through Mrs. Firman’s hand) that she was so glad her picture had come j
out so well (it seems on the glass to be the best yet obtained), but was j
very sorry that $ good Mrs. O’Sullivan ” had not yet succeeded, though |
she had tried very hard. John King told me yesterday, in reference to
that of my mother, that I was too anxious for it—that that condition of
my mind was a hindrance, and that I should try to keep in a perfectly
passive condition.
We are promised that of“Grlaucus” next. I asked if it would be
like his bust. “ Of course,” was the reply, “ as there are the same i
features it must be like.” |
And now, one last word, specially addressed to the small number of j J
persons whom I have heard of as connected with No. 38 (once rather 11
irreverently spoken of by John King as “the Russell-street lot”), who, h
in view of the photographs of the busts, took up the notion that we over i1
here were deceived by tricksy spirits, who brought in (apported) plaster 11
casts, or statue heads, which they dipped into the hot paraffin. [They
did not explain how those supposed marble or plaster heads got out of
the moulds afterwards.] We have now several photographs of
“ Angela ” and of “ Alexandrine,” sometimes singly, sometimes side
by side. And they are the same faces which show in their busts, and
which we had often before seen. And yet no two of them are exactly
the same. The form of face and features are substantially the same,
yet the hair and other details are always different. I conclude with
leaving to my friends, the authors of that marble-cast theory, this little
nut to crack, and hope it will not break their wisdom-teeth. All my
efforts have failed to elicit from “the Research Committee” the cross-
examining interrogations which were foreshadowed to me, but I shall be
happy in a few days to discuss it with them viva voce.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, Jan. 21st, 1878. - —
WHAT IS THE INTELLIGENCE ?
Sib,—It was with some surprise that I saw so much of my corre-'
spondence addressed to my esteemed friend, Mr. Massey, quoted by him
in your paper of December 28th, and also to see the allusions to my
suggestions in the following number, by two such able minds as Miss
Kislingbury and Dr. Carter Blake.
Toward the close of his remarks, Dr. Carter Blake asks for the
reasons which led me to assume the existence of a spirit indepen¬
dently of the minds of Miss Kislingbury or of Mr. Watkins.
Recognising that it is easier to ask a question than it may be to
answer it, and also that in answering one question we only open the
door to another lying just at the back of it, and so on without end,
my task seems rather difficult.
The question may not strike your readers as it did me when I first
saw it. I could only think of Dr. Carter Blake as having climbed to
the top of the ladder, where, being comfortably seated, he deliberately
pulled it up after him, before inviting me to join his company; and as
nothing would afford me greater pleasure, I accept the invitation, but
am compelled to erect the fabrics on which I make the attempt,
leaving it to your readers to judge how far I may be successful.
Presuming that Dr. Blake will not affirm that either the mind of Miss
Kislingbury or of Mr. Watkins did move the pencil, we come directly
to the question—What did ?
Miss Kislingbury tells us that a name was written under circumstances
which preclude the possibility of its having been accomplished by either j
herself or Mr. Watkins. Now, I claim that, in the writing thus obtained,
we have the strongest evidence that it was produced by something, call it |
what you please, which had not only the knowledge how to spell words in
the English language, but was able to perform the mechanical art of j
writing as well. i
I need not tell your readers how these arts are acquired, as they are
all sufficiently familiar with the process. But I may remark that I have
always supposed, and still do, that a syllable or word was never written
independently of human intelligence and its agency. If this was an
isolated case it might appear more difficult.
Fortunately, it is only one of many thousands where independent
writing has been obtained. If the matter written, enclosed in an
envelope bearing the proper stamp, had been received by post, the person
receiving it would not have had the slightest doubt of its coming from
the person whose signature was attached.
I claim, then, that the writing is only produced by persons who have
first learned to write, and who claim that they are individuals who once
lived, and still exist, after having passed through the change called !
death. In support of their claim I submit that the following instance— j
one only of many that occur to me—will be sufficient.
Five or six years ago a gentleman of Louisiana, or Mississippi, called i
at our house in 43rd Street, New York, and asked to have a sitting with
Dr. Slade.
On returning to the reception-room, after the sitting was over, he told
me that Dr. Slade asked him to write the name of some person with
whom he would like to communicate. He then wrote the name of a lady
to whom he had been strongly attached in early life. In response to his
wish he received a message covering one side of the slate, beginning
with “ My Dear Son,—The one you hoped to meet not being present I
embrace the opportunity to tell you,” &c., &c., and signed by a name '
| which he said was that of his mother. He also said that what was
1 written was what she might be expected to say to him, and that her
i name was a very unusual one, entirely unknown to any other person in
j New York but himself.
I While he seemed deeply interested, one could not help observing some¬
thing like disappointment after all. He left our house and went directly
| to.Mr. J.V. Mansfield, medium for answering sealed letters. There he had
better success, for on again addressing his friend in writing, which was
concealed from tbe medium, he immediately received a communication
written automatically with the name of his friend signed to it. He said
that the same endearing words were used at the commencement as those
| by which she used to address him in her correspondence; then she pro-
| ceeded to say “ I was at Dr. Slade’s a moment before you left his house.
Your dear mother informed me that had I been a little sooner I could
have communicated with you there.”
\ These are some of the many reasons I have for assuming the writing
| to have been done by a spirit independent of the minds of Miss Kisling¬
bury and Mr. Watkins. J. Simmons.
Hotel Kronprinz, Berlin, Jan. 19th,
SPIRITUAL MEETINGS IN EAST LONDON.
Sib,—It was with much regret that we at the East End heard it
announced by Mr. Wallis, trance medium, that his retirement from
the East End Mission (at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End), was drawing
near, in consequence of the necessity he felt to work at his business
for the support of his wife and child. He finds it impossible to attend
to the spiritual wants of this district, and to follow his business at the
West End also. It appears that the Spiritualists of tbe East End
] are either too poor, too few, or too apathetic, so have forced oar
1 excellent medium to announce his intended withdrawal; and, as
! martyrdom is of the past, I believe that, under existing circumstances,
I he has arrived at a wise decision. But cannot these circumstances be
| altered 1 The hardships under which he has laboured are as follow
A little over twelve months ago he married, and immediately after-
I wards fell out of employment. He was then ten months without
| earning a penny for the support of himself and young wife, with
nothing to fall back upon but the voluntary contributions of the
j people who attended his Sunday lectures—rather a poor look out,
| when it was necessary to pay £40 a year, rent, rates, and taxes; also
j to buy food and clothing. The consequence was, debts were contracted.
! Having obtained employment a couple of months ago, at very low
wages—but better than nothing—he, of course, finds it (out of his
affection for his wife and little one) his bouuden duty to study his own
and employer’s interests; therefore he finds it impossible to attend to
his Spiritual mission, and this at the time when success appeared to
be rewarding his efforts. I hope all lovers of truth, and those who
have had the courage to state their opinions, both orally and verbally,
and who are both rich and poor, will now come forward, and prevent
this young man from slipping into obscurity. There are monied
Spiritualists who boldly state their opinions in Spiritualistic papers,
Quarterly Reviews, &c., who would not miss a few shillings weekly to
advance the knowledge of which they so proudly boast. Forty at a
shilling per week, or eighty at sixpence per week, would enable our
medium to continue his work. I am willing to be one of the forty
or the eighty, and so prevent that which would be a lasting shame to
the cause of progress. J. Cain.
] 142, Burdett-road, Bow, E., Jan. 15th, 1877.
| Sir,—For the last fifteen months Mr. Wallis has been endeavouring
j to carry on the work of Spiritualism, and the promulgation of its prin-
| ciples, at the East-end Spiritual Institution, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-
| end-road. In so doing he has been compelled to incur expenses which
I are pressing upon him, and he is now in debt to a considerable amount,
which sum he must be ready with by the 8th of February next, when
he will be compelled to discontinue the meetings he has heretofore held,
I because of the lack of material support. We think there are many
II friends who would gladly help in this matter, if asked, and made
! | acquainted with the state of affairs ; we, therefore, take this means and
11 opportunity to inform them, and would respectfully solicit their aid.
11 Mr. Wallis has generously given his time and service and incurred this
11 debt on behalf of the cause, and we trust the liberal-minded friends
11 will answer this request on his behalf as promptly as possible. Sub-
[ j scriptions from one shilling and upwards will be gladly received by Mr.
11 Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, and Mr. West, 381, Mare-
11 street, Hackney, and announced in The Spiritualist and Medium.
\ j Signed on behalf of the committee, H. West.
1 j 381, Mare-street, Hackney, London.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
j Sir,—The King of Italy died on the afternoon of the 9th inst. The
bulletin immediately before death reached England, according to the
I papers, about 2.27 p.m., stating that His Majesty was in “a very
| serious state, and that miliary eruption was very profuse.”
I Being desirous to learn the cause astrologically of the late King’s
! decease, I erected a figure for the time of the telegram (namely
! Jan. 9, 2h. 27m. p.m,), from which I found that Cancer was on the
j ascendant, and Pisces occupied the midheaven. The moon, lady of the
ascendant, had just passed the meridian, was in conjunction with
| Saturn, lord of the eighth, or house of death, and was applying to
Mars, lord of the sixth (house of sickness). The sun is on the cusp of
the eighth, and Mercury, lord of the fourth (house of the grave), is
j retrograde, and posted in the eighth. Mercury, moreover, is combust.
Yenus, lady of the twelfth (house of woe) is in the tenth, going to a
j conjunction of Saturn, the moon being “besieged” between Saturn
‘ and Mars, who are parallel.
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 25, 1878.
The sextile aspects of Jupiter and Mercury with the moon under
such circumstances were not sufficiently powerful to stay the disease.
It would be interesting to know whether any, and, if so, what transits
were taking place at this time. His Majesty was born March 14,
1820.
Perhaps some one of your correspondents who has an ephemeris for
the year of birth would not mind taking the trouble to reply, and en -
lighten us on this point. The nature of the King’s affliction, I may
remark, is defined by the sign in which it takes place, namely, Pisces,
and also that on the cusp of the sixth, which is Scorpio. Both of
these belong to the water trigon, as does Cancer, on the ascendant.
Mars, lord of the sixth, is exalted in Aries, a fiery, dry sign.
Claudius Harriott, in his Judgments of the Stars, referring to the
diseases of Pisces, says they are “ phlegm, scabs, breakings out, boils,
ulcers, palsy, cough, and imperfection of the lungs—cold and moist
diseases.”
Since the above was written, I have read in a Roman correspondent’s
letter {Manchester Guardian) that the King died at 2.15 p.m., so that
my figure will about represent the actual time of death. The writer
states that His Majesty “ went to bed with a shivering fit on the pre¬
vious Saturday afternoon,” and adds that “ last week, being sleepless
in consequence of the first symptoms of pleurisy, he is said to have
opened his window in the night and smoked a cigar on the balcony.
Those who know Rome best are most sensible of the danger of sleeping
with open windows, or of allowing the night air to reach them when
unprepared.” Aldebaran.
A QUESTION FOR HORARY ASTROLOGISTS.
Sir,—Will any of your correspondents, versed in astrology, favour
me with a judgment on the following question of sickness ? A female
child, born on the 26th June, 1875, at 11.45 a.m., in London. Her
nativity, cast by a well-known astrologer, shows no indication of early
death. On the 8th December, 1877, at 8.16 p.m., I receive a letter
from the mother of the child telling me that it has scarlet fever. Being
a friend of the family, and having, moreover, an interest in the child’s
life, the letter renders me really anxious on her behalf. So I take this
time as one suitable for the question. On the 12th December, hearing
that the child is worse, and, being requested to call, I go to the house,
and, at 5.5 p.m., am taken into the sick room, when again I feel ex¬
tremely anxious. I take this time for a second question. The illness
has terminated, whether in death or recovery I do not now say, but
will communicate the result to your readers if they are favoured with
judgments with which they can compare it.
I drew the two figures myself, and both appeared to me, whether
rightly or wrongly, as it turned out, I do not say, extremely menacing.
Here, since horary astrology does not involve the complex calculations
of a nativity, is a simple test, which I hope it may not be considered
too troublesome to respond to by those who are willing to advance
their favourite study in public estimation. C. C. Massey.
Jan. 17th.  
“ M. GUSTAVE DE VEH’S REPORT OF A SEANCE.”
Sir,—In your editorial query appended to M. Gustave de Yeh’s
account of his sitting with Dr. Monck, you refer to “ seances which
have beeu held in such stringent privacy on Dr. Monck’s premises.”
Now, may I be permitted to say that “Dr. Monck’s premises” are
equally my premises, and that, for the sake of studying psychology
most thoroughly, I live with Dr. Monck, occupy the same bed-room
and company with him continually, during my wife’s absence from
London, and no inner circle is held of which I have not the entire
management, Dr. Monck readily submitting to my will in everything.
' Premising thus much, I have no need to add anything further
touching the matter ; indeed, if I thought that, beyond my bare word,
any buttressing were required in support of the statements I have made
from time to time relative to the astonishing things I have witnessed
through Dr. Monck’s mediumship, even truth’s compulsive power
should be ineffectual in constraining me to write another word, ox-
report another fact pertaining to Spiritualism in any shape.
However, to disabuse the minds of any who, unaware of the real
truth of the matter, may be adversely influenced by the inaccurate
statements and depreciatory insinuations of your note, freely I will
narrate what further transpired at the close of the seance referred to.
After the sitting had terminated, instead of (as elsewhere I have re¬
lated on behalf of others) having to get home through the snow, I re¬
mained behind, and put the medium to bed (he being ill and exhausted),
and slept in the same room with him. I had had the run of the apart¬
ments all day before, occupied them all night, and most of the day
after, not being once absent.
Independent, therefore, of the fact (which you seem to have for¬
gotten) of the mysterious figures being seen in process of extrusion
from, and absorption into, the body of the medium (no curtain inter¬
vening, nor he out of our sight for a single instant, or either of the
figures in their mysterious appearance and disappearance ever coming
from, or retiring to, an inner room, but building themselves up, and
dematerialising distinctly before our very eyes in the same room with
us, and barely two yards distant from us), there could have been, under
the conditions of my intimate relationship with Dr. JVlonck, and equal
occupancy of the rooms, no possibility whatever of playing ghost. But,
apart from the absurdity of the suggestion, it would indeed have been
a perilous game for any one to play, since I rather think that certain
reminiscences of Oxford Gown and Towns would have very quickly
travelled into act, and muscular Christianity would have promptly
had proper scope for exercise, especially as regards the adjective.
Suffice this concerning “ Dr. Monck’s premises,” which are no less
mine. And now, touching the “ stringent privacy ” complained of in
which the seances referred to are held. I alone am responsible for
this, audit don’t greatly fret me if a certain few are annoyed at my
! apparent exclusiveness in this regard, since it ought to be known by
|j this time that mischief only and discord can come of promiscuous
I j seances.
|| Let those who object to my policy adopt the same means I, at no
small sacrifice and risk of my clerical position, have pursued, and
possibly, and not else, they may in time approach the marvels that
have been so astonishingly fluent at our inner circle.
In my study of Spiritualism through Dr. Monck, I have advised
! him, as I think wisely, though to his pecuniary detriment, to refuse
the very many daily invitations he receives to carry hither and thither
his peculiar powers, and hawk them about from this drawing-room to
that for the mere entertainment of the idle curious. Hence, in recog¬
nition of this self-denying spirit on the part of Dr. Monck, and for the
| purpose of placing our valued instrument above the reach of the
i frivolous and wonder-hungering throng that so discredit the name of
I Spiritualist, I have, with other friends co-operating, instituted the
inner circle, the large love of which he prefers to the ready fees of
others, with their too often attendant suspicions.
But, again, it is a mistake into which M. de Yeh has, perhaps, not
unnaturally fallen, from inaccurate statements, diligently circulated
(which mistake you have no excuse for sharing and propagating), to
suppose that these recent manifestations through Dr. Monck, that have
created such intense interest, take place only “ on his premises ; ” for
; you, sir, know that there was no need for putting the question you
| have put, since you, yourself, in your own journal of Oct. 5th, 1877,
| published the report of a seance held at the house of Herr Christian
j Reimers, at Richmond, wherein details are given of phenomena pre-
I cisely similar to those regarding which your questions now insinuate
! a doubt, where, with Dr. Monck as medium, “two living forms, one
of them temporarily materialised, walked about as freely as described
j in M. Gustave de Yeh’s letter, and in a strong light.”
11 | London, Jan. 21, 1878. THOMAS COLLEY,
j | [It was a right thing to point ont the fact to the public that no evidence had
i | j been printed that “ the Mahedi ” had ever been seen walking freely about off
| ( Dr. Monck’s premises, and it was Mr. Colley’s primary duty to have told the
I ( public long ago where these seances were held. Let private feelings be kept
|} , for private life ; for the public we require careful records rather than enthu-
i) siastic advocacy. The general tone of the above letter differs from that which
| { is usual in these pages. As to the stance recorded on October 5th, it was not
j ( drawn up by anybody representing this journal; there was a want of detail
j j in it as to the amount of light and other vital points about which the public
I / ! would naturally desire information, and we had altogether forgotten its
| j existence.—Ed.]
) | SPIRITUALISM AND THE SPIRITUAL.
\ J
(| Sir,—To those of us who believe Spiritualism to be the connecting
11 link between science and religion, and that its end and aim are the
j ! development and making supreme in us of the Divine spark, soul,
j | spirit—call it what we will—through knowledge of all the laws which
111 govern psychic life, there seems a danger at the present time of our
j I becoming Spiritualists merely in name, having lost all spirituality; in
11 fact, materialists of the blackest.
| j j To such, and to such only, I desire to offer a few suggestions, as one
j I who has thought long and patiently upon the question, which may not,
j (! I trust, prove altogether useless.
! | The first and greatest of our difficulties is, of course, the old one of
| | phenomena building, idly, curious, and scientifically, &c. No one is
more anxious than myself that the most careful and searching investi-
| j gation should be given, in order to enable us to know as far as possible
I | the reason for all that occurs ; but does it not behove us who believe in
; | a kingdom of God side by side with a reign of law, to be careful, prac-
| | tically, that in all our investigations reverence keeps pace with know-
j ! ledge, that the Spirit may save the soul 1 Ought we to attend seances
!j I merely as investigators, of any kind, with no higher feeling than
I I curiosity influencing us; and, by so doing, are we not responsible for
|{j injury done to other men in the body and out of it ? I do not mean
j|| that we should turn our circles into religious meetings, or indulge in
ili cant cum shoddy; but that “evil is wrought by want of thought”
I | in this direction, I believe.
| I The same principle applies with regard to “occultism” and other
i | new theories. It may be nice, and, in some cases, desirable in the
| | highest degree, to assist the development of our planet by removing
| j mountains (“the real genuine article my Bible speaks of, and none of
I ! your modern explaining away ”) ; to command cats, lizards, and other
| | elementaries ; to dissolve the universe by an Abracadabra ; but would
| j not a Spiritualist rather, waving possibly for ever the chance of tall
| | hat and magic wand, have, through bread and soup and seance and
i | prayer, brought one hapless one into the light of the All-Father,
j I Paul was right, for the greatest, not the only good one of these, is love,
i j One word as to dogmatism. It is an old axiom, but a good one, that
I | “ the greater cannot take in the less.” But the very much less, in my
| | opinion, in both “ astral ” and human conditions, have, with opposite
! | motives, been attempting among us that most difficult task. The
j | “reign of law” can but take us to the foot of the world’s great altar-
||| stairs, and our upward progress would have been more faltering had
!} | not the “ Light of the World ” been before us showing us Who and of
|) | what sort was the One at the top. Might it not be wiser to be content
|j | to tread softly ? The angels do on the downward path, for they are not
ijj materialised yet.
(| “ Thou seemest human and Divine,
(! The highest holiest manhood Thou!
i j Our wills are ours—we know not how;
) I Our wills are ours, to make them Thine.”
(j Some Spiritualists not ignorant of Buddha and Zoroaster—not to
|| speak of “Joey” and “John King” can say more, and would, if they
(I were dogmatic or infallible. Are there many who can say less ?
“ Cantab.
Jan. 25, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
47
SPIRITUALISM IN THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY. j
BT F. J. THEOBALD. ’ ; ^ n
In The Sunday Magazine for November, 1874, there is a most j)
interesting article by the Rev. Professor Lindsey, D.D., headed, j (
“ Religions Life in the Fourteenth Century,” being an account of the | j
mystic Nicolas, better known as the “ Great Layman.” He was the j)
leader of a few good Christians who called themselves tf The Friends I (
of God.” _ . I
Probably the majority of the readers of this very orthodox magazine, I)
if not the author himself, would be more than surprised—perhaps even j (
a little sceptical—if we told them that the experiences related in this | j
paper by no means belong exclusively to the religious mystics of j /
old, but closely correspond to one of the many phases of modern j (
Spiritualism. j [
We do not wish hastily to attribute to Mr. Lindsey such an unpopular i)
belief as Spiritualism, but every word of this article might have been j (
written by a Spiritualist, in proof of the fact that the beatific experiences j [
on which his belief rests are by no means modern, but belong rather to j)
every phase and process of the religious faiths of past ages. It is most | (
anomalous to find orthodox Christians gladly recognising, in such lives i)
as that of “ Nicolas,” and all the religious mystics of the past times, j /
proof of their superior holiness, and of their having attained the “ higher j j
Christian life,” whilst they reprobate the experiences of the Spiritualist j)
(or mystic) of to-day, and attribute them to the devil. j ?
Certainly, it is the phenomenal, and what we may call the mate- | (
rialistic side of Spiritualism which meets the public eye, and doubtless, !;
vast numbers of Christians, repelled by this side, are ignorant of the fact |)
that Spiritualism has as many aspects as there are types of character in j (
humanity. j)
Perhaps if they knew that the most spiritual developments of it closely i)
correspond to the religious mysticism of old, they would cease to long for i (
that which they look upon as “ a thing of the past,” and gladly accept | j
similar help, lying at their very door, ready to enter, if they will only i)
welcome it. j
The mysticism, or, what we should call the mediumship, of this j
heavenly-minded Nicolas received its first impulse to development by j
his reading the Lives of the Saints. He felt that they were but men, i
and that the same *| life of devotedness to God ” might bring others into ]
the close communion with the unseen which they enjoyed. “ And so,” ! (
says Mr. Lindsey, “ soon he found those heavenly visions which fill so i j
large a part in these biographies, repeated in his own experiences.” |
Nicolas, in his desire to attain the holiness which would open to him j (
intercourse with the saints (or, as we say, 1 spirits”), and acting up to i j
the light which was in him, scourged himself, and “ imitated their i
austerities ” to such an extent that he wellnigh sacrificed his own life; j (
when, in a dream, a voice thus spoke—“ Foolish man, if thou killest j <
thyself before the time thou wilt be sorely punished for it; but if thou |
didst allow God to exercise thee, He could exercise thee better than 11
thou by thyself, or by the devil’s counsel.” Thus is Nicolas, like all |1
other mediums, exhorted to “try the spirits,” and to discriminate ij
between the good and the bad.
After this we find his desires were purer and higher, aspiring even to j1
understand “ God, in His very essence.” Trials and heart-sorrows
awaited him ; but, at length, it is evident that he must have attained ji
the highest form of mediumship granted to man, and known in the more j1
spiritual and mystical heights of Spiritualism as the gift of the ) J
b‘ internal respiration.”
The narrative of the teachings given by Nicolas in the following |1
extract correspond entirely with the Spiritual teachings now given j ]
through some of our mediums explanatory of this high condition of 11
Spiritual communing.
“ When the heart was entirely given to God, and the will had 11
become one with His, then it was illuminated by the gift of the Holy
Spirit. This inward illumination is not the gift of the Spirit bestowed on
all Christians in which the apostles believed, and in which we believe |
now, helping them to understand God’s Word, and influencing and
guiding aright their thoughts and actions.”
It is something quite special, only given to those who are leading the
“ perfect life,” and which, besides making clear to them the sense of
Scripture, revealed actual events, past, present, and future, and gave
positive directions as to what was to be done under all circumstances. j
Nicolas and his friends, like the spiritual mystics of the present day, j
formed no sect. They desired rather to do God’s will, and shed clearer j
light, as given to them by their mediumship, upon Christian truth.
They had no wish to destroy any belief, but, to inspire fresh life where
there were signs of decay. True it is, as Solomon said, “ where there
is no vision the people perish.”
We read in the paper named, “ It was between the years 1350 and j
1360, that their little brotherhood was formed. In all it numbered only j
thirteen, but in this circle was, as it were, an inner circle of four special |
friends, who always remained with Nicolas. One of these four was a |
Jew, “ who was converted to Christianity by a remarkable vision.”
Nicolas also, Mr. Lindsey says, “ was told in a vision to go and seek
this man, of whom he had previously known nothing.”
This little group of mediums “ did not even follow the ordinary formal
rules of the Church; they fasted or not, just as the spirit moved them.
.... They walked in the woods to meditate; they told each other about
their visions and temptations, or they talked about the affairs of the
world. This was their home life.”
This harmonious way of living furnished the best conditions for the
holding of their devotional seances ; therefore, we are not surprised at [
the following account of the most wonderful manifestations of spirit j
power, given in direct spirit-writing, spirit voices, and apparitions.”
“ In the spring of the year . . . Nicolas and seven of his brethren
held a sort of retreat in a wild mountainous place, beside a ‘ fair
stream,’ where there was a chapel hewn in the rock, where every day
they celebrated Divine service. !
The weather was wild and portentous during the eight days they
spent in this place. They saw apparitions, and heard voices. . . .
“ On the night of the following Christmas it was revealed to Nicolas
in a dream that he should hold another meeting of the Friends of God,
on the Holy Thursday of the next year. They, therefore, met at the
time fixed, the whole thirteen. . . . All met together for the last time,
and partook of the Holy Communion.
“On Good Friday they were all sitting by the stream, when, after a
series of strange apparitions, the voice of an invisible speaker addressed
them, and a letter fell into their midst.
“The letter which could be read, we are told in every language, com¬
manded them to disperse for three years, after which, if God was about
to send deliverance to His Church, they would again be called together.
“After Easter the voice again addressed them, and asked if they
would obey the commands contained in the letter. They replied that
they would. Nicolas relieved them all from their obedience to him, . . .
and then the little brotherhood broke up, and the members departed all
in different directions.
“ And so,” adds Mr. Lindsey, “ amidst strange visions and voices,
the Friends of God vanish from our sight into the mists of the past! ”
The world around these good men failed to recognise that they walked
with God; branding them as heretics, they honoured them by giving
them a martyr’s grave. Tauler had had predicted for his friend, in a
vision “ a hard death,” and it was at Vienna, when Nicolas was well
stricken in years, past eighty, that he, with two of his followers, were
burnt, the crime of which he was accused being that he “ audaciously
affirmed that he was in Christ, and Christ in him.”
Six hundred years have rolled away, and now these good men are
held up to our view in their true light, as “Religious Mystics.”
But even, as history ever repeats itself, the Nicolases, or spiritual
mystics of the present day, are branded as infidels ; their experiences
are either denied, or anathematised as coming, not from God, but from
the devils.
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham.
Mr. Charles Blackburn says that a friend of his writes to him •
“ In The Spintualist of November 16th, Dr. Carter Blake asks of Mr.
Colley the meaning of the ‘ Arabic ’ word N Mahedi, which the latter
gentleman could not give, so I presume to give it. The meaning is
‘ Guide ’ or ‘ Leader.’ ”
Spiritualism in Dalston.—There was a full attendance on Monday
evening last at the fortnightly meeting of the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, when Dr. J. M. Peebles delivered an inte¬
resting address on “ Items of Foreign Travel.” At the close of the dis¬
course, several questions were replied to, and the proceedings, which
throughout were of an enthusiastic character, were brought to a close
after a vote of thanks to the lecturer had been unanimously carried.
The thanks of the meeting were also given to Mr. R. A. March
for presiding, after which the members and friends dispersed.—Mr.
Samuel H. H. Quarmby, during his recent visit to London, twice
visited the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, and the
secretary informs us that he gave much satisfaction by trance discourses
given through his mediumship on subjects selected by the members.—
On Thursday, 3rd instant, the members of the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism received a long-promised visit from Mr. J.
J. Morse, honorary member, through whose mediumship an inspirational
discourse was given, which was listened to with pleasure by those
assembled on the occasion.—On Monday evening next, the 28th instant,
Mr. W. J. Colville will attend at 53, Sigdon-road, Hackney-downs,
London, E., when his second inspirational discourse will be given on the
subject of “ The Future of Human Existence on Earth.” The meeting
is open to all, a voluntary collection to be made at the close towards
defraying expenses. Doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.15 p.m.
“ Rifts in the Veil.”—Public Opinion of last week says:—“ Rifts
in the Veil. A collection of poems. (W. H. Harrison). This volume
of poetry and prose, some of which claims to be inspirational, and com¬
prises some really good literary productions, written by old hands. The
chief one is an alleged post-mortem work by Charles Dickens, which
purports to be a conclusion to the unfinished novel of the Mystery of
Edwin Drood, through a medium in the United States, the results
bearing all the marks of the genius and style of the departed author.
The problem at issue is thus reduced to a very simple form, i.e., either
a forger and impostor displayed the particular literary knacks of Dickens,
and presented it to the world in connectiou with a movement not yet
sufficiently understood to be popular, or the intelligence is actually that
of the author of the narrative. To our minds, after the life of Barusha
Barnstoople, which, by the way, never came to an end, it is very difficult
for any person to throw themselves closely into a frame of thought
which commits even the same literary faults as its model, and also to
carry the imitation so close as jurare in verbo magistri. The next
bright spot in the work is an ode under the pseudonym of “ Adamanta,’
of which the poetical merit is alike lofty and true. The writer speaks of
ascending—
‘ More toilsome, lonely heights,
Whence I could gain fresh glimpses of my heaven,
And open up a path for travelling souls
Whose goal was one with mine.’
Some curious legends by Emile, Prince of Sayn-Wittgenstein, and some
verse which has the rhythmical ocean-like rise and fall that only the
daughter of the late Captain Marryat could write, adorn a singularly
beautiful cento of contributions from a number of diverse schools of
writers, who are only united by the bond of literary merit. We have
rarely read a more ingenious compilation of excellent literary matter,
and the selection reflects the highest credit oh the editor of a collection
of good prose and verse.
48 THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 25, 1878.
THE LATEBAL EXTENSION OF SPIRITUALISM.
BY DESMOND G-. FITZ-0ERALD, M.S.TEL.E. j l
Some time ago a friend wrote to me:—“ Few people are j
wilfully opposed to truth. Men accept it freely when they j
can recognise it clearly. With the present means of demon- j
stration the wonder to me is that Spiritualism progresses so j
slowly. Whose fault is this ? and how can you explain the j j
fact?” | I
Briefly, I think the a fault” is, for the most part, with those j !
who have no appreciation of such truths as Spiritualism can j |
offer, and who think that there are a great many things i j
more important and better worth working for than mere |
truth. In many cases this <{ fault” may be active—due to j j
a selfish cunning which may find its reward here, but will j !
not be held guiltless hereafter. In most cases, however, it h
is merely the consequence of insufficient progression—a j |
comparatively low state of mental rather than moral de- j j
velopment. In regard to the explanation required, three j j
persons, who must co-operate in harmony before spiritual | j
truths can be promulgated and spread rapidly, have to be j i
considered—viz., the Spiritualist, the Sceptic, and the Spirit, j I]
Let me glance at their relative positions, mainly by taking i j
typical cases within my experience. j j
I may first observe, that in the comparatively few cases |
in which a triple unison has existed between them, such as j
is absolutely necessary in order to any beneficial result, the j
sceptic has at once become to other sceptics more or less of j
a Spiritualist—u a weak-minded dupe,” with whom they j
would not care to hold commune. In the greater number
of cases no such agreement is possible, for reasons which
may be gleaned under the following headings:—
THE SPIRITUALIST. (
His ardour for proselytising has of late years con¬
siderably abated, although his power to make con- j
verts may have become augmented. This is not very j j
surprising when it is considered that the propagandist is j !
generally regarded by self-sufficient ignorance either as a j |
knave or a fool, if not worse, and that in no case of conver- j j
sion is any apology rendered for the contumely and super- j
cilious insult often heaped upon him. On the contrary, the j
disciple of truth seems tacitly held to be under an obligation j
to the convert. Few Spiritualists have the humility and j
patience, even if they have the time and means, to devote | i
themselves to the service of the sceptic, to lead him on from | !
one small truth to another that is greater, to quit their own j j
calm abiding place of knowledge and conviction, in order to | j
encounter the truculence and meet the gibes of those who j j
may possibly condescend to allow the proselytiser to labour in i j
their behalf, and to force some kind of conviction upon j j
them. Again, Spiritualists have found out that such converts j j
are seldom worth the time and trouble expended upon them, | j
since they, in most cases, prove by their conduct that they | j
are not endowed with any earnest love for truth, and that, j j
therefore, the time and trouble devoted to their conversion j j
might have been more beneficially expended in other direc- j j
tions. | j |
THE SCEPTIC. ) i
“ If you think you are, in any case, going to make i j j
me stultify myself before the world, and admit that I have | j
unlearned all I now know, and learned something very j J
much better from you—all I can say is that you are very i
much mistaken. Granting for a moment, at your particular ! (
request, that the creaking and evolutions of articles of up- |
holstery, or the visions and additions of an over-excited j
imagination could lead to any serious conviction in my j
mind, you must perceive that, as a man of the world, and j
as Editor of the Mugby Advertiser, I could not permit such j
a conviction to become exoteric. The Mugby Advertiser is j
a very valuable property, since it numbers a constituency of j /
nearly a quarter of a million readers, most of whom, like j j
Professor Huxley, would not be interested in the phenomena | j |
of Spiritualism, even supposing them to be true. If you |)|
imagine that* I would attempt to force Spiritualism down j 11
their throats, as you are attempting to force it down mine, | j |
again I say you are very much mistaken. In the first place, j j j
the proprietary of the journal would not allow me to do so; I j |
in the second place the Eighteenth Century is not the k j
period, nor is Great Britain the locality for martyrs; and I if I
have not the slightest ambition to become one, even in a ‘ ,!
pecuniary sense. In the contingency we have imagined, I
should certainly not denounce you as I now think I am
justified in doing—but I could not prevent my editorial col¬
leagues from expressing their opinion, which, you must
remember, is that of the vast majority of our readers. In
regard to the test manifestations you wish me to witness, I
have no objection to do so, providing you will bear in mind
that the test conditions are to be mine—mii yours or i the
spirits ’—and that the other witnesses are to be selected by
me. In case of failure, I think you must see that you will
have no cause to complain if Spiritualism and your own
credulity should be stigmatised in the columns of the Mugby
Advertiser with even somewhat greater severity than here¬
tofore.”
THE SPIRIT.
(( Dear brother yet on earth, working out earnestly and
prayerfully your own initiation to the truths of eternity, ever
hold forth your hand—so strong and yet so weak—to those
who would walk in the path that you are treading, but who
need your help, and would welcome it, even as you have
needed and welcomed help. Our Father bids us help one
another; and in His providence such aid is counted as help
unto Him—for man is privileged to do God’s work. Yet
try to understand that is but little you can do; God ever
does the hardest work, the real work, Himself. If I can
help you, dear, it is that God has moulded your spirit to re¬
ceive my help ; He has given us eyes that can see the same
light, ears that can hear the same music, a sense that can
recognise the same gems of truth long before they are
polished and set that all men may admire them. The spirits
of each sphere—above that of Despair—minister in the
sphere which is next below their own. The higher the
sphere, the less tangible to earthly sense is the means of
their ministration. If you see me now it is more by
spiritual than by earthly vision. God has done the hard
work for me. He did it by chastening your heart with
suffering; by sowing in it flower seeds which germinated as
undefined longings for something better than aught you had
known, and blossomed as new truths on the threshold of
eternal Truth; by sending to you less developed spirits, who
did their work as I hope to do mine. Some little time back,
before you dared to dream that, under God’s law of pro¬
gression, you would be able, even on this earth, to hold
commune with the spirits of a higher sphere, I could not
have approached you. You required a ministration more
akin to earth, more in accordance with what you then ac¬
cepted as truth and right. This you obtained from the
sphere next above that for which you were then fitted. I
tell you this, loved one, that you may understand whom you
are fitted to aid, and also whom you should, wisely and
trustfully, leave to others among God’s workers and mighty
agencies—lest you strike your foot against a stone, and
cause men to desecrate that which is too holy for their touch.
Be patient, God has an eternity to work in ; His ways are
orderly and all-perfect. I am not permitted to help those
who have not sought, and yearned for, what I can bring.
Neither is my sister in a lower sphere, nor are you, allowed
to supersede the necessity for striving after Truth—to ignore
the full meaning of the words: * Seek, and ye shall find.’ ”
Mr. G. C. Joad, Mr. N. F. Dawe, and Mrs. Honywood are in the
South of France.
On Sunday next, January 27th, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver two
trance addresses in the Temperance Hall, Keighley. Afternoon at
2.30; evening at 6.30. Admission free.
The Royal Institution.—Professor Tyndall has just closed a series
of admirable experimental lectures on “ Heat ” at the Royal Institution.
One of the members writes to us:—“ I caught my severe cold in the
Royal Institution at Professor Tyndall’s second lecture, sitting under
the gallery in the pent-up foulness. Cannot you show up the disgrace¬
ful want of ventilation in that ‘ Black Hole ’ of a Temple of Science ?
This is the third season I have suffered from it, and the consequence is
that I am unable to attend a third of the lectures, and, worse still, shut
up from doing anything else.” Thus scientific ventilation—and the
Royal Institution is elaborately ventilated—does not appear to be
practically successful. There are strong draughts near the various
openings for the escape of air.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Querist.—None but intolerant organisations would attempt to fetter the
liberty of opinion of individuals.
Jan. 25, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Vs. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHESINTHEPHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reahty of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING- SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. ,F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo„ 16s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium Ught. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
Is. fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mi-diumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,”-published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
Is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiratu n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. I2s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIESOFINFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ , , . .76
The Reformer. „ IY. „ . .. . .76
The Thinker. „ Y. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . '.6 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . • .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . • .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .70
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence ... . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Rehgion . . . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . » .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . - ..30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . ,76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . , „ . , 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spikitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18. 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A . 10 0
Awas-I-Hind;; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation pi the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . • . . . • , 16 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recenthj produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be •
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative ■
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
NEA TL Y PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to. “ drop about .” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
2Tan. 25, 1878,
NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEAN’S.
LORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIYING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, eras a gentle laxative and tonic in the
Various forms of indigestion, use END'S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
gtomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Compaiatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of tire globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. I,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“ Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
F^NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
“Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.’’
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
JUNO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms ?f Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent iorm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
[ the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C.Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yeurs respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. SO, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno's Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Pam—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX,
• ; i Just Published,
Price .Seven-Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
’ Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabae*was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali- Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardenerr—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joel”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part %—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press,
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, saj’s“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result."
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.., . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all ■
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji Al Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and j^ilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
WUliamH. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in Th§ Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit..., The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that maybe read many times over... The get-up of the book is-
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor send that he
did not mind them.] . ., “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effectof Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER HI : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of.
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peeuliar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Tnnsference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid's Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHARTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiologicai, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcrait, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly lExists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odykc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance. Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Tune
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance —Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O,
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
