ItaeisTK&ao is i Nkwspaphk.
plfS jot't{Vft!< :PbxCftoitoc(id-Si< ^Cii-tKCii
gxtespapr rjcrjmK^b' Spinhmlism m, 6rxat §ntam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xi, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246 Boule-.
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
- Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 1267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH :-Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-secorid-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Mohtgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO :'3i9, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. xoio, Seventh-street.
If. 280. (Yol. XII.—No. 1.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JANUARY 4, 1878, Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Spiritualism and Some of its Recent Critics. By M.A.,
Oxon      ) ; ..."   ... 1
The Animal Cravings "of Earth-bound Spirits ... ... 3
The Rector’s Ghost, By Lucia C. Stone    8
The Influence of Religious Enthusiasm over Morals. By
Professor V. B. Denslow, LL.D.:—The Value of Religion
* —The Value of Irreligion.i. ... - ... -...  L 4
The Testimonial to Dr. Slade ... 1   - ... 8
Spirits and Mediums., By William White, Author of The
Life o£J§iwedenborg ...'   6
VfegOTarianism ...v   ... ... ... 7
.Poetry:—Making the Bed, A New Tear’s Memory  8
CorrespondenceThe Untrustworthiness of Dr. Carpen¬
ter’s Quotations—What is the Intelligence?—An Ency-
clopsedist on Spiritualism—The “Spiritless Souls’’ of the
Theosbphists—Spirit Identity    8
A Catholic Canon on Independent Slate-Writing... ... ...11
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Seances
for Inquirers... ...   ' ... -.a .i.    1L
Fay uerswS-Carpenter ... ... ... ... ;.. ... ... :‘... 11
“ The Demons of Derrygonelly ”  ..;    12
Answers"^ Correspondents .?. ?     12
ParagraphsTile British-'*National Association of Spiri- -
tualists, 7; Spiritualism in Dalston, 10 ; A New Spiri¬
tualistic Book, 11 ; A Fasting Girl, 11 ; Reception at
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 11 The Spiritual Magazine 12
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
fTJHE SPIRITUALIST,- published weekly, is the
• .JL_ oldest Newspaper" connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of, educated Spiritual¬
ists in ail the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
ThO Contributors to its mages-cQmprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists;! including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature,-Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E.?F.R.S.; Mr. William-
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, hut has, up to the present time,
•xpressod no decided opinion as to, their cause); Mr. Alfred It.
. Wallace, President of the Biological-Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the. Advancement ot Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): | the Right Hon. the-_Countess of
Caithness ;vHis Imperial-* Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.-; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court* of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross.-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelina Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
afc-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore ; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood;, Mr, Bepjamin-Coleman ; -Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A.-(Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ;. Mr: Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the-Rev. C.
Maurice Davies,' D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,-
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.; LL.M.; Mr. 0.'Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
oury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers;. Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J.-' M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,‘M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following plaqes :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse.' Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor .Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corse. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege:~37, Rue Florimont.
Bfida-Pesth : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96,* Russell-etreet. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly'and
Co.; New York: Harvard Rooms,! Forty?second-street'and
Sixth-ayenue. . Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-pl^ce, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Of&ae.
Memphis,- U.S.:. 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: * No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications, on the business of The Spiritualist '
should be addressed to W, H. .Harrison,' SpMtugiist News-.,
paper Branch Office, 38, Great.Russell-street, London, W.C.
WOBKS BY THE COUNTESS OF CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.'
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT,
*Price 15s.
Tlie Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for January, 1878.
Friday, ith.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.jn.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton.
Tuesday, 8th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finamra Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ ' ,, Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 9th.—Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. W,
Eglinton.
Friday, Wth.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ - „ Experimental Research Committee, at
<j.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton.
Monday, 14fft.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
Tuesday, \5th.—Inspirational Address, at 8 p.m. Mr.
W. J. Colville.
Wednesday, 19th.—Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. W.
Eglinton.
Friday, 18th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
: . „ .... „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m;’ Mr.
W. Eglinton.
Tuesday, Tlnd.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Inspirational Address at 8 p.m. Mr.
W. J. Colville.
Friday, 2&th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Monday 98th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
Tuesday 29th.—Inspirational Address, at 8 p.m. Mr.
W. J. Colville., .
TRANCE SEANCE.
On Saturday, the 5th, Mr, Quarmby. of Oldham, will give a
Trance Seance at 38, Great Rnssell-street, at 8.30 p.m. Free
to members and friends.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects. .
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and. are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership* &e., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
LANGHAM HALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London. W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjects chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved, is.
Lancashire district committee
OF SPIRIT UALISTS. The following Meetings will
be held under the auspices of this Committee:—Bolton : Sun¬
day, January 6,1878, Mr. John Lament, of Liverpool, will give
Two Addresses ; also on Monday evening, January 7th, Mr.
Lament will give an Address. Liverpool: Sunday, January
* 6, Mr. Joseph Jackson, of Hyde, will give Two Addresses at
the Camden Hotel, Camden-street. Morning at 11, evening
atji.30^ : , : ^ " ■>'
IVTR. MORSE WILL SPEAK AT THE
AlX FOLLOWING PLACES:—Liverpool: Sunday, Jan.
13,11 and 6.30 ; Hyde : Monday, January 14, 7.30 Rhodes:
Tuesday, January 15, 7.30 ; Manchester, Wednesday, January
16,7.30 ; New Mills: Thursday, January 17, 7.30; Littleborough:
Friday, January 18, 7.30; Oldham: Sunday, January 20, 2;30
and 6.30 ; Rochdale :.Monday, January 21st, -7.30 ; Burnley :
Tuesday, January 22, 7.30 ; Bolton: Wednesday, January 23,
:7.30; Bury: Thursday, January24,7.80 ; Manchester: Friday,
January 25, 7.30. John Lamont. President; Charles Parsons,
Secretary. . ;
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON,' F.R.S.,
States (in ther Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the mdst refreshing and agreeable of halms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-xtreet, London.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organio and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may be obtained on apnllcation to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary SecretaryI
Willesden, N. W..
Just published, price fis., richly gilt,
“ RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
CONTENTS.
» Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O 1 Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumshlp of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumshlp ol T. ft. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-medlumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Rlchmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings wert
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried : Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
dlumship of Lizzie Doten—0<ie by “ Adamanta. ”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A.,Oxon ”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burne—A Story of a Haunted House. Bv F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna iBlackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehrisusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance In the Sunshine. "By the Rev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W.. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position In
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d,,paper cover, ‘‘Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is, The .SpmfwaZfef Newspaper Branch Office. 
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
* Is a self-inking one and-can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £6.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms l8e, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illuitrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., Ac.;
post free, seven stamps.      •
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-bulldings, Chancery-lane, W.C,'
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
. The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 4, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, 'W.
Honywood, Mrs., 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jendken. Henry B., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, o. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C. \
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-yilla, Church-end, Finchiev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-yllla. Cairns-rd..New Wandsworth. S.W.
Ashton. E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Tt^nnptt Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Blnney, P.- A.,24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, lames, 159, Eglinton-strcet, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool. ~
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Collev, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosiand. Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Pabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheeiham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humohreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymourrstreet, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John,199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred. E„ 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Bemers-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson. Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould. Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N .
Sirawhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge.Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W„ M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackhcath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. IL, M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, SW.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook,'Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James MyIne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britien, San Francisco, U.S.A. .
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Ltndesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipslc, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G.' L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq;, Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. GledstaneS; Esq., 33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr.Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R, Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Piiel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston'Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalstoh-Iane,
*- Dalston, London, E. *
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El visconde dc Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiriea Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE : described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
ASTROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. Pearce, author
of the Weather Guide - Book, &c. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is ; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
RETCHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
late William Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E. 455 pp.,
demy 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
(fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER’S pamphlet
on Curative Mesmerism, price 6d.; also a pamphlet on
Clairvoyance, price 4d. To be had from the author, 10,
Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &c., &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London: J. E. Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.O. 
^/TEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
.avJL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell*
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
MR- J- J-
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.  
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Honrs, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.    
SPIRITUAL HEALING OF DISEASE,
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, W.O.,
AND
141, CAMBRIDGE STREET, PIMLICO, S.W.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment by letter, which will receive prompt
attention. Curative appliances sent to those residing at a
distance .on application.   
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON
 S.W. 
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes. 
MADAME LLANCORli,
At home from 11 till 4, for Music, Trance, Clairvoyance, and
Automatic Writing.
25, GUILFORD STREET, RUSSELL SQUARE.
MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.  
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris. 
|71 W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
JJJ • engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.C.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Snffolk-street,
Boreugh. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
btreat, Bloomsbury, W.O. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
TSS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 121, Marylebone-road, London, N.W.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
rpAKEN IN EXCHANGE, on Wednesday,
JL evening, December 5, at the Soiree of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, a gentleman’s hat, new,
with deep mourning band, and marked with a monogram
inside; maker, Truefitt. If the same is brought to 38, Great
Russell-street, the hat left in its place will he given in
exchange. 
FOR SALE, a few copies of the following
valuable works, in good condition:—Ashburner—Notes
and Studies in the Philosophy of Animal Magnetism and
Spiritualism (1867), 12s. Newnham—Human Magnetism, Us
claim to dispassionate enquiry (1845), 7s. 6d. Townshend—
Facts in Mesmerism (1840) 9s. Lang—Mesmerism, its history,
phenomena, and practice (1843), 4s. 6d. Sent post free on
receipt of P.0,0,—Lachlan, 22a, King-street, St. James’s,
London, S.W.
GWP
Msl'
5#
WfilSIfl
% tl H| |)t|tr]gr^$ tl nub ul
Volume Twelve. Number O^e.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 4th, 1878.
g#«
SPIRITUALISM, AND SOME OF ITS RECENT CRITICS.
BY “ M. A. OXON.” iji
We Spiritualists would seem to have fallen on evil days, j j
Three consecutive numbers of this Journal—those for j
December 7th, 14th, 21st ult.—contain three vigorous |j
onslaughts on certain cardinal dogmas of our faith. We h
have the advantage of the ripe criticism of one whose I
experience dates back five and twenty years.; of another j
who has for “ over a dozen years had manifold oppor- [ <
tunities of investigating the phenomena of Spiritualism in ! j
all their varied forms,” and who may be supposed there- i <
fore to speak with some weight. And lastly, to complete j!
our discomfiture, we have the Theosophists about our ears j j
with the president himself flourishing the tomahawk of <
demolition.
We have believed, in our confiding simplicity, that
through the gate of mediumship we have access to the
world of spirit; and that through the same gate the spirits j
of our dead were able, under certain restrictions, to return |
and speak with us. What those restrictions are we cannot I
always tell; that some r/venants are pretenders we entirely
know; but we have believed that the master-passion—a
pure and holy love—has availed sometimes, aye, many a I
time and oft, to draw back the emancipated spirit, and to !
bring it once again within the sphere of the loved ones j
left behind.
It is this that I designate “ a cardinal dogma of our
faith.” I will so far vary my language as to add that it is
the central fact round which the whole fabric of Spiri¬
tualism is built up. Demolish that faith and you have
cut out from the body the heart whose action gave it life.
Take away that belief—that pious hope if you prefer to
call it so—and you have robbed Spiritualism of that which,
in the vast majority of instances is its sole attraction.
There remains—what ? A scientific something with which
the savant may amuse himself: the action of a force, the
possibility of a transfusion of thought. A curious question¬
ing as to elementals and elementaries, and the possible I
action of infra-human (or as the theologian calls them, j
diabolic) agencies: a body from which the soul has been |
wrenched, and for which most men will care nothing.
Baldly stated (and I am quite aware that there is far |
more than that left to the earnest students of nature and j
of self—I will admit and emphasize the fact before I have
done)—this is the situation.
Dr. Wyld tells us that all the phenomena are or may be j
produced by the spirit of the medium : that we have no I
proof of the return of the departed : and that the entranced I
spirit of a living human being is the final cause of all.
Elaborated at length, in a paper, the clearness and bold- j
ness of which are admirable, he disposes of our departed |
friends completely, and “ leaves us poor indeed ” to con¬
template our own nakedness, and the desperate wickedness
of our common selves, which when freed from the control
of the body can play such pranks, and so “ fool us to the
top of our bent.”
T. J. is only a little more merciful. He leaves us one spirit j
beside that of the medium, but, alas! he is such a deceiver,
that we are a little worse off than before. T. J. has had I
the fortune, or misfortune, to fall in with what I hope he
believes to be a very exceptional man, “a middle-aged |
man, who was a medium without knowing it,” and who,
“ from a mere child, had been a victim of spirit manifesta¬
tions, haunted by a familiar spirit.” This uncanny spook
seems to have amused himself in picking the brains of his J
medium and those who came near him, and producing a j
series of counterfeit presentments of friends whose images I
he found there. Nay, so cunning was he, that he would |
not take the first image that turned up, but would select a 1
| curious and unlikely name, or “ an uncle deceased, who
I might have been a soldier, and who had, perhaps, lost a
j limb ”—what an alarming conjunction of perhapses !—
I as a child might plunge his hand to the bottom of the bag
! on the chance of getting a bigger apple. With these
| materials he produced, as might be imagined, extraordi-
I nary results, one of which was to impress T. J. with a
| belief in his “personality” and representations, and so to
| upset his belief in spirit identity altogether.
Lastly come the Theosophists, propounding much, doubt¬
less, that is true, much that is matter for fair speculation,
and a good deal of what none of us can say more than
that we can neither prove nor disprove it, just as they
who assert it labour under the same inability. Passing by
all other points, saving those which bear on the immediate
subject of this paper, I remark that Colonel Olcott widens
the area very considerably. He tells us that the medium
through whom objective physical manifestations are pro¬
duced, may belong to one of two classes—(a) “ those who
| are moved by the spirits of the departed,” and (h) “ those
whose occult phenomena are attributable to the agency of
j their own doubles in concert with other potencies.”
These are very noteworthy statements. We may be in
communion with our departed friends, even through a
I physical medium; and further, Colonel Olcott “thoroughly
| concedes the action of pure, disembodied human spirits
in the sublime phases of inspiration, prophecy, trance-
vision, and direct writing.” This admission, which covers
j the whole area of the Spiritualist’s faith, is, however,
j toned down by a reservation. “ But not in all cases; far
i from it. The medium’s soul may manifest itself in all
| these, as may also the elementaries.” “ Judge this tree,
| like others, by its fruits.”
The Theosophists then tell us that our f&ith, as Spiritu-
i alists, may or may not be true, that each case must be
j judged on its own merits; but that, at any rate, we must
be prepared to widen our range of vision very consider¬
ably, so as to admit the action of the medium’s spirit, of
j elementaries and elementals, as well as of the departed
j spirits of mankind. Furthermore, they warn us that
I mediumship, at its best, is a risky business; that we
should strive after adeptship, cultivate magic, and develop
our own spirits, which have at best only a precarious
chance of immortality.
How, then, do we stand as Spiritualists in the face of
the three mentors who have been raised up to “ smite us
friendly and reprove us” ? Are we the victims of T. J.’s
masquerading spook—who surely must be a Theosophical
elementary of the deepest dye—or, are we befooled by the
loose spirit of a medium? Or must we admit that the
Protean powers of the world of spirit are such that we
do not know where we are, or even whether we are our-
| selves at all ?
Before I attempt to say what is in my mind on these
j important points, let me emphasize their importance and
express my own satisfaction that they have been openly
raised. I believe it to be entirely beneficial that such
theories should be put forward, and that we should have
an opportunity of canvassing and discussing them. I
distrust any all round theory, and while I gladly admit the
modicum of truth that I believe underlies all these views
! —and some have a wider grasp of fact than others have—
j yet I must say that I do not believe that any one of them,
| or all three of them combined for the matter of that, has
| any monopoly of truth. Though the Theosophist comes
I nearest, inasmuch as his platform is widest, I say for
I myself that I cannot accept any one of these theories as
| entirely sufficient to cover the facts. And, though I speak
i here and elsewhere for myself alone, I believe that that
2
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 4, 1878.
statement will carry with it the assenting affirmation of a
great number of persons, who have a very good reason to
give for the faith that is in them.
It is manifestly impossible, with any due regard to space,
to enter here into any exhaustive review of the evidence
which leads me and those who think with me, to arrive at
this conclusion. It is the less necessary because those
who, as is the case with our present critics, carry their
experience so far back, must at least have read, if they
have not personally seen, many cases, which their theories
will not cover. I shall content myself with a brief refer¬
ence to well known cases.
And let it be premised, as is very necessary in the case
of any theorist, that an argument is never answered till
it is answered at its best. A theory which pretends to
explain facts must explain all the facts, or it is worthless.
If it reaches only to a certain extent, and stops short of
explaining the most marked phenomena—-mZeat quantum.
But it fails of its purpose.
Dr. Wyld’s theory that the liberated spirit of the
medium is responsible for all the varied phenomena has
been already ventilated by Serjeant Cox, and before him
by other theorists. I am ready to admit, and am glad
that investigators should recognise the potency of the
human spirit. It is a great fact in psychical phenomena.
I have experimentally proved its power, and have no
doubt that to ignore its effects is to pass by in our obser¬
vations an element which we cannot afford to despise.
But, this admitted, it must be stated further that to say
that the liberated spirit of a medium does all, is respon¬
sible for all the varied phenomena recorded week by week
in this Journal is to rush into the other extreme. Dr.
Wild predicates of the human spirit while yet incarnated
something very like omniscience, omnipotence, and omni¬
presence. Such a startling theory must be supported
by some very widely extended observations before we can be
asked to accept it. As a matter of fact no evidence what¬
ever is brought forward for so sweeping an assumption.
Even the facts of mesmerism, though they tell us more
about the potency of the human spirit than any other
source of information, fall far short of establishing any
such claim.
Moreover, these phenomena occur in the presence of a
passive medium, and we are asked to believe that his
spirit causes the various results which we observe. We
are referred by way of corroborative testimony to such
facts as those recorded by Madam Blavatsky and to such
experience as my own. But mark the difference ! I speak
from experience. Nothing short of the severest exercise
of Will, so severe as to paralyse the mental powers for a
long subsequent time, can avail to produce any objective
effect. Yet the medium, passive ex hypothesi, and in
many cases not entranced, produces them without (so to
say) “ turning a hair.” To any one who has tried it the
hypothesis carries on its face its own plain refutation.
Once more, the spirit of the medium, a fairly honest and
respectable person in normal condition, as soon as it
becomes free from the controlling influence of the flesh,
must be supposed to lose all sense of veracity, and to
become a miserable and mendacious impostor. Are we,
then, kept in check by the physical body ? And when we
“ shuffle off this mortal coil,” are we io come out in our
true light ? Or are we to suppose that we are all psycho-
logised, stage-struck, gone mad with a desire to masquer
rade? Surely, such cases as (for instance) that of
Abraham Florentine, recorded in this journal, are not
explicable on any such theory. Certainly, no one who has
seen the method of communication, who has observed the
definite and distinct individuality of each Intelligence, to
say nothing of their moral consciousness and direct honesty
of purpose, will be persuaded to entertain any such idea.
T. J.’s hypothesis covers very little ground indeed, and
is important only as showing some of the methods of
deception which are open to spirits who are not scrupulous
in their treatment of us, and who are not governed by any
moral consciousness. Such there are, no doubt, and, un¬
fortunately such there will continue to be, for spirits dis¬
embodied have no monopoly of deception, and we, on our
side, “do our level best” to keep up the supply. The
i| plain remedy is to purify our circles. Into an atmosphere
| of sincerity fraud does not readily enter. If we ourselves
| attend to the conditions which will, we know, facilitate the
| approach of the higher Intelligences, we shall have steadily
| decreasing reason to lament such exposures of frauds as
| are now only too frequent. So long as we have our pro-
| miscuous circles, held under the conditions under which
| they are now held, accessible, as Col. Olcott says, “ to any
| chance moral leper who has a sovereign to spend,” so long
| we shall have fraud; fraud too often charged on the un-
I conscious medium, when the moral responsibility rests
! with those who have made it possible, probable, aye almost
| certain.
When these conditions, for which we are responsible are
| removed, and when the phenomena are not made a raree-
| show of to anybody who wants to gape and gibe at them,
^ T. J.’s hypothetical spirit will find it necessary to exercise
his abilities elsewhere.
The Theosophist platform, so far as it concerns the subject
now under notice, is far more worthy of consideration. There
is much in it that must commend itself to one whose pre¬
possessions are dormant, and whose perceptions are wide
awake. So far as it goes, it seems to me to embody a true
rationale of the fact; so far as I can comprehend it, I believe
it to be worthy of all attention. I wish it had been in the
mind of my friend to state more clearly his belief in, or
acceptance of, what I may be allowed to call the pure Spirit¬
ualist as contradistinguished from the Occultist theory.
Though I accept, so far as concerns my present subject,
what the Theosophist believes respecting the care that should
be exercised in encouraging mediumship ; the dangers that
beset promiscuous circles ; the power of the incarnate human
spirit; the rich field of research in the cultivation by develop¬
ment of the Will ; of our own inherent capacities; and of
the key that the study of mesmerism furnishes to many
problems ; I could wish that he had given a more prominent
place in his review to the si action of pure disembodied
| jj spirits,” of which he makes so little. It is there that I find
j | myself constrained to avow myself a Spiritualist pur sang.
| j While I know that the human spirit can act, and does act
| ' under certain conditions, and those (by the way) not such as
|! readily obtain ; while I believe that deceptive agencies, fre-
j quently evoked by ourselves, are at work ; while I do not refuse
| to recognise indications of the presence of infra-human intelli-
i gence in some cases; admitting all this I should be false to my
I strongest convictions were I to burke for one moment my
j belief in something far higher and nobler than all this. I
j believe—it will not add to the weight of my statement if I
I say I know—that man can choose his own company more
easily among the unembodied than among his own fellows.
In the future, we are taught to believe, man will gravitate of
necessity to the place which he has prepared for himself.
And so I believe that here by his moral rectitude and in¬
tegrity of purpose, by the pure aspirations of its spirit, by
the atmosphere which surrounds him, and by the craving
which is in him, he can avail to draw around him influences
j and intelligences which are higher and nobler than anything
j contemplated by our critics.
11 Those who return to us are animated some of them by
11 enduring affection. I cannot put aside the evidence which
j| so many sincere and capable observers produce for the return
11 to them of those whose identity they are best able to judge,
j Others come as instructors, and of these I have had large
j experience. I should as soon suspect them of playing a part,
11 of acting a lie, of palming off on me a pious fraud, as I
j should impugn the honour and veracity of my best friend.
| Is that strong language ? I mean it to be such. If there
| be not moral consciousness in those of whom I speak, then
! I have no standard. I am reduced to a mighty incredulity
(I as to any such thing as truth, and should not even trouble to
|| ask Pilate’s question in despair of getting an answer. Thank
| God ! I have not come to that.
One word as to magic. What is there in the cultivation of
j one’s innate powers to their highest possible to frighten a
| man ? I, for one wish that every Spiritualist would cultivate
I his own spiritual faculties to their utmost. I wish every
I Spiritualist would face the criticisms that can be made, and
| do his best to vindicate for his faith the plane of moral
i grandeur that it should occupy. Nine-tenths of our diffii-
Jan. 4, 187&. TtfE ^PIRITUAllST. 3
culties are of our own making. We shall never be free—
how should we?—from assault by spiritual foes. Is not
advanced truth always an object of detestation to those who
from ignorance cannot see any beauty in it that they should
desire it, as well as to those who have aversion to light ? But
we, ourselves, do our best to make pure spirit-communion a
thing rare as it is lovely. That is the indictment, and it is
true.
For the rest, the theories advanced, like many others less
vraisemblable, cover only a part of the ground, and while it is
well that they should have their due weight, no undue pro-
minance can be given them without ignoring what is the
very heart and life of Spiritualism.
Though it is obvious, I guard myself from possible mis¬
conception by saying that there is much in Colonel Olcott’s
valuable paper which I have not touched, as not coming
within my present scope.
December 24th, 1877.
THE ANIMAL CRAVINGS OF EARTH-BOUND SPIRITS.
The Boston Sunday Herald of December 9th last, contains
an account of its reporter’s visit to an eccentric doctor, who
has put aside most of the ordinary conveniences of life, in
order to show his neighbours that a man can live, without
cares or troubles, on five shillings a-week, to the great chagrin
of tax-gatherers, landlords, and the vendors of innumerable
articles brought into use by civilisation. On Prospect Hill,
Waltham, near Boston,U.S., this doctor has, partly by excava¬
tion, and partly by construction, built himself a queer kind of
house, something after the fashion of a rabbit burrow; he
has fenced in a piece of land round it, and lives almost
entirely on the produce of his garden, which he cultivates
himself. He is versed in philosophy, also in several branches
of mystical rubbish, and he is known fin the locality as (< the
hermit.” He is a Spiritualist, lively and good-natured, and,
on some subjects, sensible.
He admits the doctrine, now well established, that vicious
spirits can taste the pleasures of earth over again by entering
into mesmeric rapport with a medium, the community of
sensation, so often witnessed in mesmeric experiments, being
then established between them. But in pushing this theory
to what he believes to be its consequences, he pictures,
according to the Boston Herald^ the following results : —
(t Obsession by spirits who control the appetites of their
victims he regards as very common, readily accounting for
inclinations to gormandise, and for all unnatural cravings of
the stomach. ‘ What,’ he asks, ‘ caused an acquaintance of
mine to arise from bed at midnight, to go down stairs, and
to eat an entire pot of baked beans ? ’ An unsympathising
listener suggested ‘ gluttony.’ The doctor protested, and
said ‘ he was impelled to do so by the spirit of some person
who died craving baked beans.’ This theory claims that
persons who possess unnatural appetites in this world retain
the same in the next, and, fastening themselves upon unfor¬
tunate human beings, gratify such tastes through them.
Thus arises much of the drunkenness of the present day.
The spirits of drunkards, to satisfy the cravings of their
appetites, compel individuals here on earth to drink for
them. The worst of it is that the poor mortals derive no
benefit from this continual imbibing; the spirits absorb all
good in the liquor, and leave only the dregs. Thus, if one
unfortunate happens to be fixed upon by a number of
intensely bibulous spirits, how dry he must continually be.
He becomes a sort of filtering machine for his spiritual
attaches. Some men seem to be always possessed by a legion
of such spirits. But the doctor proposes a remedy for this
kind of spiritual oppression; the experiment has already
been successfully tried. A philanthropic gentleman of
Boston, pitying these thirsty denizens of the spirit world,
procured the services of a medium to assist in appeasing
their habitual thirst. A liberal supply of all kinds of liquors
was provided, and the spirits summoned. One ordered brandy,
another whiskey, another gin, and so on. The medium
drank all that was called for, and the spirits, getting the
benefit of it, were absolved from the necessity of resorting to
other mortals, for that day at least. Upon being reminded
of the fact that the 4 mixing of drinks ” in this prodigal
manner will quickly overcome the most hardened drinkers,
|| the doctor said that the spirits, out of gratitude, prevented
||| evil effects to the medium. This theory and experiment
ju suggest a new way of dealing with intemperance. If we
])| can only satisfy the spirits, drunkenness will cease. 4 The
[|| Society for Suppressing Intemperance by Supplying the
| | Spirit-World with Rum ’ should be at once instituted.
| | As an instance of spirits preventing injury to the person
| | drinking for them, the doctor relates the blood-curdling
| | story of the Newburyport sailor. This individual was one
|| morning attacked by an insatiate thirst, t He hastened to a
| I drug store, where, being unable to procure liquor, he ordered
|(l the clerk to prepare him some good strong prescription.
| | This was done, he drank the mixture with a smack of his
11 lips, paid his money, and departed. After he had gone the
| | horrified clerk discovered that by mistake he had given
| I dose of prussic acid; It was too late to follow after the
| ! customer and remedy the evil, and the clerk saw in imagi-
| I nation the state prison and gallows looming up before him.
| | What was his astonishment, about an hour after, to see the
ill same sailor, whom he thought to have been a corpse long ere
|(| this, walk into the store alive and well. Stepping up to the
I | counter, he said, ‘That drink was first-rate. Give me
| | another like it.’ It appears that the spirit impelling him
I | to drink had such a depraved appetite, that it enjoyed its
| | dose of prussic acid much as a Boston alderman enjoys his
||l champagne in a pitcher; and the sailor was doubtless
K protected from injury so that the spirit could get another
| | dose.”
| I THE RECTOR’S GHOST.
BY LUCIA C. STONE.
j | In the ancient town of Dorchester, Dorset, one Christmas-
! tide (I cannot fix the exact date, but it was not earlier than
| | 1814, and might probably have been the following year), a
| | rumour arose that a ghost had appeared in the old church of
| j St. Peter’s to the clerk and sexton. They were both dread-
| I fully frightened, and the former, I think, was insensible for
| | a time. The spirit was said to be the Rev. Nathaniel Tem-
i I pieman, the late rector, who died in 1813.
The story reached the ears of the then rector, the Rev.
| I Henry John Richman, a learned and intelligent man, genial
j and kindly (I have the pleasantest recollections of him).
| | The action he took in this affair was attributed to his eccen-
| I tricity, of which he certainly gave proofs in regard to some
I I other matters. He had an invalid wife and sister-in-law,
j j both very nervous; so, to avoid annoying them, he examined
j the clerk and sexton both together, and apart, at the house
I I of my aunt. I was quite a child then, but can just remem-
| | ber the whispering and excitement, and the men being shut
j i in with the rector. The particulars of the story I heard
j afterwards.
It was the custom in Dorchester, on Christmas Eve, for
J . the clerk and sexton to decorate the church, not in the
{ artistic fashion of modern times, but with large bunches of
I i holly and mistletoe stuck about indiscriminately. After-
ill wards they gave the church a good cleaning for Christmas
| | Day. On this Christmas Eve, the clerk and the sexton,
|(| after locking the doors of the church in order to prevent the
| j intrusion of curious persons, busied themselves, as usual in
m Christmas preparations until the winter day drew to a close,
| | when they sat down, on a form in the north aisle, to rest
| | from their labours.
Then it was, as they told Mr. Richman, that the tempta-
(j tion came upon them to take a glass of the Sacramental
I wine, which was kept in the vestry. After obtaining the
||| wine, they became aware that some one was sitting between
| | them on the form. There had been no sound of steps, and
| | the figure passed neither of them, but seemed to grow upon
j j the seat. They both recognised the late rector, or “Old
||| Master,” as they called him; he had the old familiar look
j i and dress. He turned with a stern countenance from one
| l to the other shaking his head in his peculiar way, but did
| | not speak. The sexton, Ambrose Hunt, was able to say
i | the Lord’s Prayer; Clerk Hardy was utterly unable to utter
||| a word, and shook with extreme terror. The spirit after a
| | while rose, and retreated down the aisle, turning round
m occasionally with the same awful look. He seemed to melt
i)J. or vanish pver the family vault, where his body lay. I never
4
THE SHlElttJAiiiSt.
Jan. 4, 187S.
heard any explanation, except a surmise that somebody con¬
cealed in the church, and dressed like the late rector,
frightened the men, but the “ somebody” was never dis¬
covered, and I believe the other good rector believed the
men’s story.
Shute Haye, Wald itch, Bridport.
THE INFLUENCE OF RELIGIOUS ENTHUSIASM OVER
MORALS.*
BY PROF. Y. B. DENSLO'VY, IX.D.
Religion, however open to criticism its moral influence may be in
some points, is still, and must continue to be, the main moral force in
the world, the function of science and philosophy continuing to be that
of critics and faultfinders, necessary of course as critics, but not practi¬
cally efficient as moral workers, while religion, the cowled monk, the
headed priest, the mitred bishop, the fat, sleek, chess-playing curate,
the shoulder-hitting Spurgeon and Moody, with their praying bands,
and, above all, the superstitious and bigoted but faithful praying women,
will of necessity do the great part of the world’s moral work, i.e., of
the work of holding the world’s conscience up to certain standards of
right, and holding its conduct to its conscience. Such a result might
be assumed from the fact that philosophy, in all its comprehending
generalities, can only come to the conclusion that whatever is, is right,
and science utterly refuses to discuss or frame moral standards, and so
ignores the questions of right and wrong altogether; in this dilemma
comes religion, with the fine egotistical frenzy that whatever is, is
wrong, that depravity pervades alike the pictures of Raphael, the form
of woman, and the corollas of the lily, and that it is its mission to set
all this right.
Religion is a necessary force in civilisation, but it never includes all
truth nor all duty. It needs the antagonism of a vigorous scientific
and philosophic infidelity, not only to prevent it from running civilisa¬
tion down into ecclesiastical bondage and barbarism, as illustrated by
the great religious crimes, wars, and persecutions, of which I shall say
little to-night, because they have all made their due impressions on your
minds already, but religion needs to be antagonised by a powerful philo¬
sophical infidelity in order to express, by the joint operation of the two
opposing forces, the whole truth and the whole duty of man.
THE VALUE OF RELIGION.
Let us first consider the necessity of religion as a social force, and then
the like necessity of irreligion, with the advantages and disadvantages,
the rewards and penalties of each.
Religion is necessary as the cohesive, binding force in society—
irreligion as the emancipating, disintegrating force. The whole truth,
including both, is symbolised by the granite rock which underlies all
other strata, and from which all others are formed by the action of the
elements. Granite has two ingredients, the feldspar or adhesive element,
which decomposing forms the slates, shells, and clay—one-half the
basis of every fertile soil; the quartz, or disintegrating element, which,
decomposing is formed into sandstones and finally into sand, the other
half of the basis of all fertile soils. Clay symbolises adhesion, religion ;
the shifting sands symbolise liberty, free-thought, infidelity. Either an
excess of the adhesiveness or an excess of liberty, produces barrenness
in the physical soil, as in the moral, while both in due combination
result at once in the fertility of the valley that blooms with fragrance,
and in the grandeur of and durability of the icy peaks that lift up their
heads among the stars, and control the courses of the winds and rains
in a manner as essential to the fertility, though it seems so desolate, as
the sod of the valley itself. Religion, I say, is the adhesive power, the
only one capable of insuring unity among men in the promotion of moral
and spiritual ideas which are the first steps toward intellectual and
philosophical ideas.
To this end religion unites minds into sects, between whose members
unity is produced, while reason or philosophy never produces anything
but discord. Religion says to the crowd. “ Hear ye the Lord,”
Piiilosophy says, “ Hear me.” In the latter stages of development, for
a man to profess to teach another in the name of God excites the feeling
that it is impudent. But in the infancy of the human mind, a man feels
that any attempt by another to teach him anything, of his own superior
wisdom, is impudent, while the pretence that it is in the name of God
allays his vanity, subdues his pugnacity, and makes him ready to listen.
Religion supplies motives, to wit, the desire to feel assured and at rest
concerning things we don’t understand, concerning the mysterious forces
of the universe, to appease the gods, to win their favour, to secure
rewards, and avert punishments, which sway every mind except the
philosophical. Its means also tend towards unity. It avoids inquiry
and disputation, and all wrangling such as divides philosophical clubs.
All its congregations meet together at the sound of the same bell, kneel
together, view together the same ceremonies, blend their voices together
in the same harmonies of song and praise, unite their heart and life in
the same positions, listen without expressed dissent, but in that same
respectful silence, to the same doctrines, and thus unity is promoted by
the same physical drill as in an army, accompanied by the same mental
drill as in the school-room. Auguste Compte’s effort to introduce united
worship into his philosophy, as a means to secure mental unity
was illogical, for in philosophy not unity but diversity is wanted. When
uaity walks in philosophy must walk out. The more logically the
church is based on supernatural assumptions alone, like the Catholic,
the greater its capacity for accomplishing numerical unity, i.e., of
uniting vast masses into one sect, and thus the greater the force and
power it can give to what may happen to be its ideas. Catholicism
believes in an inspired church, one of whose works is an inspired book.
* A lecture delivered before the Chicago Philosophical Society.
IProtestanism, less logically, holds that an invisible and uninspired
church produced a visible and inspired book. Catholicism says of the
■j scriptures, “We wrote them.” Protestantism, “They wrote us.”
| Protestantism says, “Hear what the men of old said when men were
inspired.” Catholicism says, “Except the church of to-day be also
inspired, it cannot comprehend what these men of old taught. If it is
| inspired, then hear directly what the church says.” Being thus com¬
pletely furnished in its religious assumptions, its aggregation of numeri-
ical force, and its power to promote a moral idea is proportionately great.
Its kingdom numbers 140,000,000 of subjects, while the divided forces
] of Protestanism are only 120,000,000. At times it has placed its foot
upon the neck of kings, but it was an unfortunate day for Rome when it
i said to Henry the Eighth, “ Your marriage is indissoluble—keep your
wife. You are a king, but marriage must bind you as it does a peasant.”
It lacks alike the ecclesiastical power to depose a preacher that is
eloquent, or to censure a member that is rich. Of course the liberty
to serve God according to the dictates of our own conscience, uncurbed
by the moral power of any organisation, carries with it inseparably the
| liberty to serve ourselves according to the dictates of our own lusts, and
to stand by each other with our church organisations in this service.
| And this in turn resolves a church into an ecclesiastical pleasure club
for sustaining oratory, and which feels no particular solicitude about
saving anything from hell, unless it may be the pew rents and the
minister’s salary. The reformers could not set the congregations free
from pope and bishop in faith without also freeing them in morals,
j Free thought, if it is to have a moral code, must base it on expediency
| and sense of interest alone. It is the consciousness of this fact that
| now constitutes the chief intrenchment of Protestantism against an utter
abandonment of all authority.
Shall I attempt to sketch the advantages of that religious organisation
whose bright side is the unification of thought, whose dark side is sec¬
tarianism ? It was to print the Bible that Faust invented types. It
was to serve or overthrow religion that sciences and philosophy have
been studied. They have not had the effect desired, but all their
beneficence has resulted from the delusion that they would have that
effect, just as the alchemic search for the philosopher’s stone introduced
chemistry, and the astrologer’s search for the hidden clues of human
destiny revealed the undreamed-of glories of astronomy. To extend the
lustrous triumphs of the Cross Columbus was commissioned. Oxford,
Cambridge, Dartmouth, Harvard and Yale were founded, and that
collegiate system which everywhere precedes the common-school system
of education was introduced. Motives have little to do with results.
As a means of converting Indians Dartmouth failed. As a means of
educating Webster it succeeded. The church has always abounded
sufficiently in the good and humane works of every kind, so that the
class of men who want to brace their reputations morally always join it
in preference to a philosophical society. Hypocrisy is the homage
which vice pays to virtue. If there were no sound, healthy, valuable
fish swimming under the surface of the great religious deep, there
would be no gulls hovering over its waters, seeking and illustrating
corruption.
Not that I would concede that civilisation is in any more distinctive
sense religious than it is intellectually religious. Whence comes mono¬
gamy, and with it the glory of the pure and holy union of one man to
one woman? Not from polygamous Judaea, but from Greece, Rome,
and Germany; from the Aryan, not the Semitic races. Whence come
our art, in all its varieties of poetry, painting, sculpture, music, gym-
||| nasties, dancing, literature, history, architecture, and the like. Not
from sombre and mercenary Judaea, but from pagan Greece, Rome, and
|(| the Gothic races. Whence come the masculine theories of virtue
|| which, fortunately, reassert themselves through the power of scepti-
I) j cism, and make it consist in courage, fidelity to the truth, industry,
!jj ambition, prowess, health, physical nobility, blood, pedigree, race,
11! culture, gentility, and the other Roman virtues, thus practically repu-
Iy dialing the Christian or feminine virtues of humility, patience in
I suffering, self-denial and self-sacrifice, poverty, chastity; which in
] Christian churches are taught by men, but hardly believed or practised,
except by women. Nor ought they to be. If the vigorous sceptical
common sense of the male sex, and their endowment of intellect, positive
force, industry, and will by their Creator were not sufficient to make them
| ignore in practice the feminine theory of virtue which was enunciated
by Jesus, and to substitute therefor the Roman standard of virtue, in
which ambition is the pivotal quality, industry would cease and civi-
j|! lisation would drift backward into barbarism. It is the exaltation of
| j! the feminine virtues above the masculine, those that fit for suffering
| | above those that fit for conquest, that has always made Christianity
j|j seem natural, healthy, and easy for women; awkward, hypocritical,
||| and half-hearted in men. Very few men ever become religious except
|) | through female influence. It is not the man that preaches the gospel,
j|j but it is his mother, wife, or sister, who has retained his intellect by
11 some fee of affection, to act as her attorney. These feminine virtues are
11 very useful to soften the asperities of the world after the masculine
| virtues have conquered it. As they are the cause of women’s subjuga-
II tion by man, so if man should practise them they would cause his sub-
| jugation by nature, i.e., his decline from wealth, power, and civilisation,
into poverty, weakness, and barbarism.
THE VALUE OF IRRELIGION.
| And now let us turn to irreligion, or the emancipating force as a
social power. The world’s rulers, thinkers and revolutionists; its
Platos, Copernicuses, Napoleons, BiGmarcks, Garibaldis; its Shaks-
peares, Franklins, Humboldts, Goethes, Yoltaires; its philosophers,
I historians, poets, inventors, explorers, and originators, are essentially
all irreligious.
Irreligion brings out the individual in his emancipated manhood,
j and bids him make the most of himself, for no vicarious mantle of any
l merit will ever reward bis indolence, or give him glory in exchange for
Jan. 4, 1878. THE SPIKITUALIST. 5
his mere wishes. In Protestantism it makes him his own pope, in
Parkerism his own priest, in Unitarianism and deism his own Christ;
and, finally, in the atheism of pure philosophy and the scientific
materialism of Darwin it makes him his own God. There is none
higher.
One of the most noted philosophers now living, and the ablest one
of the economic school that America has ever produced, once said to
me, and not, I think, at all in a manner that forbids its repetition, it
being simply the blunt expression of his inmost faith:—“These
preachers,” said he, “ go into the pulpit and try,to persuade the people
that salvation is in Jesus Christ. But I tell you salvation is in ME,
and in my books.” He meant that morality grew, as man grew in
wealth, and that the science of wealth was the key to morals. All
philosophic minds of intense originality and individualism approximate
to this feeling ; if they do not express it.
The advantages of the irreligious position are the independence,
integrity, and often dignity which it imparts to one’s thoughts, in¬
vestigations, and statements of truth. It renders a man fitter for
scientific analysis, for discovery in the domain of physics, for historical
narration, and often for representing and wielding government over
men.
The religious statesman, the religious general, the religious philo¬
sopher, and the religious physician, are all contradictions, and are very
likely to be hypocrites. The state is never so bloody or so unjust as when
it attempts to promote the gospel. Sectarianism is the very worst
qualification a man can have for dealing with questions of the weal or
woe of nations. Had Nero not been a sectarian bigot of the heathen
pattern—had he been as free from religion as Augustus Caesar, he
would not have persecuted the Christians. Had the lion-hearted
Richard been as free from religion as Lord Palmerston or Disraeli,
instead of dyeing the sands of Palestine with English blood, in the
wars to recognise the holy sepulchre, he might have imported Arabian
scholars to teach the arts of the Saracens to his subjects. Had Queen
Mary been as free from religion as Yoltaire, she would have, been as
free from the blood of the innocent. Had Cromwell and William of
Orange held creeds in statesmanlike contempt, they would not have
cursed both England and Ireland with centuries of mutual hate. Some
one has said, “ When men are on the throne, women govern.” Cer¬
tain it is that when saints are on the throne, the devil reigns.
Righteousness is best defended when men of no religion wield the
state, and religion itself flourishes best when it cannot budge a bayonet
or a constable.
History is told with least bias, the law is framed and administered
with most integrity, and science discloses its facts most instructively to
those on whom creeds rest lightly. This gain to the world is often
purchased at the cost of painful isolation to the individual. The man
who thinks is more solitary than the hermit on Mount Athos cliffs.
To the extent that he is original he is alone. In the degree that he
is loving this solitude is exile. Byron has said of mere social isolation,
which is not to be compared with the religious—
To sit on rocks, to muse o’er flood and fell,
To slowly trace the forest’s shady scene,
Where things that own not man’s dominion dwell,
And human foot hath ne’er or rarely been ;
To climb the trackless mountain all unseen,
With the wild flock that never needs a fold,
Alone o’er steeps and foaming falls to lean,
This is not solitude; *tis but to hold
Converse with nature’s charm, and view her shores unrolled.
But ’midst the crowd, the hum, the shock of men,
To see, to hear, to feel, and to possess;
And roam along the world’s tired denizen,
With none to bless us, none whom we can bless ;
None that with kindred consciousness endued,
If we were not, would seem to smile the less,
Of all that followed, flattered, sought and sued,
This is to be alone; this, this is solitude.
To differ from prevailing sects and schools, whether of the religious
or the irreligious, in one’s views of life, duty, and destiny, adds to the
gloom of solitude the vulgar insults of suspicion. It is to live under
another God, in another life.
Perhaps some souls are driven by this isolation into moral reck¬
lessness. Usually, however, few men reach this religious solution
until the very studies which brought them hither have, by their drain
on nervous power, subdued the passions which might make their isola¬
tion dangerous. But, to the more richly endowed, this solitude is
peopled with a nobler race than society. To this class belong that
chosen few, who came forth upon society like Mohammed from his
cave, like Swedenborg from his dreams, like Moses from the mountain
of the law, or Buddha from his slavery, or Jesus from his temptation ;
armed with a Koran, a vision, a decalogue, a gospel or an emancipation,
that shall be infidel to all the past, only that it may bequeath a nobler
orthodoxy to all the future. Such willingly receive their temporary
crucifixion by the vulgar idea that they may win a truer homage and a
wider fame than could have been theirs by chiming in weakly and
pleasurably with the religious fashion of the hour. There is a one¬
sided class of, as I think, unphilosophical philosophers, who are deter¬
mined to account for the world on a simple plan by throwing away or
denying the facts which make it complex ; they insist upon running it
by some one force instead of through the antagonism of opposing forces,
and especially in the world of ideas they would insist that no one
truth, which is but a name for some force in nature or in thought,
should clash with any other truth, but that all facts shall be but to
harmonise with some one theory, instead of being left as they are in
nature, to sustain conflicting theories. Such men ask how can it be
that a religion, if begun or sustained in part upon myths and fictions,
can end in utility and truth ? Well, science began in the fictions of
incantations, fortune-telling, alchemy, sorcery, magic, witchcraft,
I astrology. Its origin is as full of myths, and its history as full of
romance, lies, and impositions on the human mind as is the history of
religion. The faculty of deceiving and being deceived is not arrested
by turning one’s attention to science. Does not Herodotus tell of a
race, I think the Hyppoopophagi, who carry their heads under their
arms ? This is part of the early science, ethnology. And did not a
reverend scientist of early New England write that the Connecticut
river at a certain point flows through banks so narrow that its waters
by pressure become indurated, and as solid as iron, so that the point of
the sharpest knife could not be thrust into them'? That was part of the
science of the day. In cosmogony science is now riding two horses in
opposite directions—one that the earth has been constantly cooling
since it became a planet, the other that most of its early cosmical
changes were produced by ice. We cannot measure all truth by one
standard. We discover the truths of anatomy by the dissecting knife.
But if we search with that implement to find the source of life, or the
cause of beauty, we convert both life and beauty into a hideous mass of
disgusting entrails. We cannot detect all truth by one test, or measure
it all by one standard. Scientific truth is proved by experiment.
Mathematic truth requires demonstration. Poetic truth is too subtle
for either. Its only test is, does it so shadow forth those things that
universally please, and conceal that which in nature mars our pleasure,
as to render one pleasure refined from the dross of the actual, and com¬
plete in the charms of the ideal. The truth of the Greek Slave or of
| Powers’ Eve, as a work of art, lay not in the question, Did she ever
actually exist ? but in the question, Is it a perfect grouping of the
i elements that please—does it delight the cultivated taste ? If so, it is
true to nature and to art. Religious truths may be drawn alike from
historic truths or from historic fictions. Their test is, Do they exalt
| the religious passion ; the passion to live a pure and holy life—a life
I very near to the divine and ideal—to the suppression of the other
j passions of ambition, avarice, self-indulgence, sensualism, and the like 1
j Whether Jesus was crucified is not so important as the broader fact it
| shadows forth, viz., that all men who seek to change man’s standard of
| right and wrong will be crucified, for the bigotry of the human heart
I arrays itself against every moral revolutionist; if it did not do so
| moral law could have permanency. And it does not follow that because
j one man who was crucified was a Christ that therefore the balance
were not criminals.
Whether Moses found the decalogue engraved on tablets of stone, is
j less important than the fact that he succeeded in engraving it on those
tablets of the human heart, which in their eternal succession are more
j durable than stone. Whether Jesus was of immaculate conception, or
whether He rose from the dead, is less important than the fact toat He
is the most influential mind that ever walked the earth by virtue of His
vaster influence upon its intellectual and moral development. Next to
him probably ranks Buddha, the Hindoo prince, who, at the sight of
a slave beaten by the lash, descended voluntarily from the palace to the
hovel, and became and continued for years a slave, in order that, having
been made perfect through suffering, he might, not by war but by love,
gently lead the masters out of despotism and the bondsmen into
liberty. Resembling Jesus more nearly than any other in the benevo-
I lence of his life, he resembles him also in the extent and nature of his
influence. And next to these might rank Confucius, Moses, Mohammed.
I have thus tried to show forth a few faint outlines of this difficult, won-
| derful picture which the history presents to us of the moral influences of
| religion. The libraries of the world are filled with volumes upon it. I
I have not even hoped to do justice to it in an hour.
In conclusion, let me say that the great intellectual forces which an¬
tagonise religion, viz., science and philosophy, are like the day. They
I open up to us the world in which we dwell, its infinite capacities, its minute
! j beauties, its myriad wonders, its grand anthem of causation. As we ad-
|| j mire it all, we shudder at the thought that night, the mantle of all this
! j | beauty, the cover of crime, the terror of simple minds, will in a few hours
! | spread its dark pall over all, and lock the world in its death-like em-
j j brace. We start back from that darkness and blackness of terror—the
I! night 1 And religion is that night! In it the soul rests the sweeter for
not knowing aught but that it feels the sense of rest. It says to man
—work not, but trust! It locks the mind fast in its peace, while now
and then horrible crimes stalk forth under its shadow, and win the
execrations of the ages. But while the mind thus rests, high over all
breaks forth the glory of the heavens—star upon star, world upon world,
which the day had hidden, pierces the great depth of God until the soul
| exclaims, “ Why did I think the day revealed knowledge? It wholly
| hid a thousand worlds to reveal imperfectly but one. But night mant¬
ling one world to reveal millions is the great revelator 1”
Happiest and sanest is he to whom the day discloses its near work and
useful knowledge, and the night its rest and gleams of other worlds, to
whom observation, reason, and experiment unfold their daily lessons of
j utility, and with regular alternation. Religion lifts up its sombre,
| . gloomy wings, dripping with darkness from every pinion, like the night,
that through them may glint and glisten the stars of a loftier though
j | trembling, wavering, twinkling hope. If the world it reveals should be
ni rolled away, as a scroll, and death, as an eternal sleep, should prove
|i that these glistening hopes were delusive; that in grasping for the
||| dazzling prize of immortality our ambition had o’er-leaped the benefi-
Icence which guides the universe, if there be any sentient minds any¬
where, 'who will see these hopes go out, these stars extinguished, they
will weep for pity that fate was not more just to those who dreamed so
nobly. But if aught of these sublime and heavenly visions, which
through all ages have canopied the earth in its darkest hours with
unnumbered and celestial glories, is to be realised, if indeed the en¬
franchised soul
Eternal, boundless, undecayed,
A thought unseen, but seeing all;
All, all in earth and skies displayed,
Shall it suryey, shall it recall..
THE SPIRITUALISE. Jan. 4, 1878.
Before creation peopled earth
Its eyes shall roam through chaos back,
And where the furthest heaven had birth
The spirit trace its rising track ;
And where the future mars or makes
Its glance dilute o’er all to be,
While sun is quenched and system breaks
Fixed in its own eternity;
Above, as love, hate, hope, or fear,
It lives all passionless and pure;
Its age shall fleet like earthly year,
Its years as moments shall endure.
Away, away, without a wing,
O’er all, through all, its thoughts shall fly
A nameless and eternal thing,
Forgetting what it was to die.
If this, or aught like this, vision be converted into our after death ex¬
perience, as we look back on the speculations and philosophies which
came to dull our sense of these bright religious dreams, we shall say,
Why, indeed, did we suppose it was the day that lighted up the world ?
It was night—deep, illimitable, mysterious night—aye, darkness and
mystery, these were the great revelators.—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO DR. SLADE.
Thk following testimonial to Dr. Slade, reached him in
Berlin only a few days ago:—
In view of the deplorable termination of Henry Slade’s
visit to this country, we the undersigned desire to place on
record our high opinion of his mediumship, and our re¬
probation of the treatment he has undergone.
We regard Henry Slade as one of the most valuable test |
mediums now living. The phenomena which occur in his
presence are evolved with a rapidity and regularity rarely !
equalled. j
Moreover, they possess this most invaluable merit, that j
they occur in full daylight, and under conditions which j
permit of their verification by three independent senses, I
hearing, touch, and sight.
Professor Lankester, who made the attack on Henry
Slade, and who has since prosecuted him in the Courts of
Law, is entirely without knowledge of or experience in the
phenomena of Spiritualism.
To this ignorance there was superadded on this occasion
special prejudice, in consequence of his annoyance at the
introduction of the subject of Spiritualism at a section of
the British Association for the Advancement of Science.
Under the influence of this ignorance and prejudice we j
believe that Professor Lankester visited Henry Slade for
the express purpose of carrying out a predetermination to
expose what on a,priori principles he had already decided to
be an imposture.
Furthermore, Professor Lankester’s ignorance of the
subject showed itself in his manifest inability to under¬
stand or accept as a possible fact the phenomenon of direct !
writing. This, however, we assert to be of regular oc- |
currence in the presence of Henry Slade, as testified to by !
many unimpeachable witnesses; and we further state that |
in at least one case, as proven by actual experiment, it has !
occurred in an almost inappreciable space of time, £0., in j!
less than two seconds. ! J
Having in view, therefore, the ignorance, prejudice, and |i
subsequent animus of the prosecutor on the one hand, and j!
on the other the knowledge we ourselves have of Henry h
Slade’s powers as a medium, and the testimony, corrobo- |
rative and cumulative, of the many observers who have j]
recorded their repeated experiments with him, we un- jj
hesitatingly avow our high appreciation of Henry Slade’s |!
powers as a medium, our sympathy with him in the great j!
anxiety and distress which he has undergone, and our un- |1
shaken confidence in his integrity. I<
He leaves us not only untarnished in reputation by the j J
late proceedings in our law courts, but with a mass of h
testimony in his favour which could probably have been I
elicited in no other way. j
Furthermore, we desire to avow our conviction that in j
the present state of public feeling and ignorance of the j
subject of Spiritualism, it is impossible that Henry Slade !
should obtain a full and fair measure of justice. His |
Defence Committee have, therefore, on their sole responsi- I
bility, advised him to decline the further jurisdiction of j
English law courts, it being their opinion that every claim I
of honour has been already satisfied.
The above testimonial, engrossed on vellum, and most
| handsomely illuminated, has appended to it among others the
signatures of Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, and officer of the
Legion of Honour; Mr. George Wyld, M.D.; the Rev. W.
Stainton-Moses, M.A., F.R.S.L.; Mr. C. C. Massey; Mr.
Algernon Joy, M. Inst. C.E.; Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood,
M.R.I. (one of the Middlesex Magistrates); Mrs. C. Burton
Burton (daughter of the late Archdeacon Hale) ; Mrs. Tenny¬
son Ker (sister of the Poet Laureate); The Countess of
Caithness; the Duke de Medina Pomar; Mr. C. Carter
- Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital; Mr. Henry G. Bohn (the publisher) ;
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S. Tel. E.; Miss Douglas;
Mr. Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. J. H. Gledstanes ; Mr. F. W.
Percival, M.A.; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory ; Mrs. Weldon;
and many others.
Immediately upon receipt of the testimonial, Dr. Slade
| sent us the following letter:—
j
To the Editor of11 The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—I beg to acknowledge the receipt of the testimonial
| which was forwarded by one of the members of the Defence
| Committee, to all of whom, as well as to those friends who
| have subscribed their names to that important document,
I I desire in this public manner to convey, as far as possible,
| some expression of my gratitude : also to say that it will
i ever be my ambition to prove, by my labours in spreading
| and advancing the cause of Spiritualism,that their confidence
| has not been misplaced.
Its beauty, both in design and execution, together with
i j the declaration of abiding faith in my integrity and medium-
1 ship, will greatly aid in dispelling the clouds of prejudice
|| arising from the persecution to which I was subjected while
• I in London.—I have the honour to be, yours, most gratefully,
Henry Slade.
j Hotel-Kronprinz, Berlin, Dec. 24tli, 1877.
j SPIRITS AND MEDIUMS.
BY WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOR OF “THE LIFE OF SWEDENBORG.”
It is satisfactory that Dr. Wyld does not ascribe all
j manifestations to the spirit of the medium, but only some
j manifestations. So limited, I am left without objection;
| and would only press for evidence of the fact. Whilst we
| cannot in spiritual, as in physical investigation, adduce
i and repeat evidence at command, we should none the less
j jealously regard assertions with no warranty beyond their
! maker’s prepossessions. For example : Dr. Wyld advances
I as fact “ that our spirit, when entranced, is a departed
| spirit,” “ having identical powers with spirits of the de-
| parted.” It may be so, but the assertion appears to me
| highly questionable.
As to the wider assertion that all manifestations are due
| to the spirit of the medium, I might adduce my own ex-
| perience with Mr. Home. Whilst manifestations of varied
I character were in transaction, he was an unconcerned
| spectator, conversing freely, and no more entranced than
| I was. It is true a man’s mind consists of several storeys,
I but I have yet to learn that the storeys can be so discon-
| nected that we can have a Mr. Home vis-a-vis, whilst
another Mr. Home is performing a multiplicity of prodigies
that would tax the energies of an Ariel. Much experience
has taught us that spirits are apt at personation, and have
little respect for truth; yet it would be to speak in haste,
like King David, and say they were “all liars;” and it
would be equally hasty to assert, as some do, that spirits
never know more than their medium. When Mr. Coleman
first visited Kate Fox, in New York, he was addressed by
a spirit, who gave her name as Ann, and a relative. Mr.
Coleman objected that he had no such relative, living or
dead, and that he desired to hear no more, as he did not
wish to be deceived. Nevertheless, the spirit vehemently
insisted that he was wrong, and wrong he proved to be. His
wife’s mother was named Ann; she had been opposed to
his marriage with her daughter, and appeared in order to
Jan. 4, 1878.
THE SPIHITHALIST.
1
apologise for having withheld her consent! Mr. Coleman
has never been satisfied with indifferent results in this
class of phenomena, nor has he hesitated to exact severe
tests. A party of four, in his own house, were about
to hold a seance, when a visitor was announced. She
did not object to join the circle, but protested she
had no faith in the business, though all the while
Mr. Coleman had reason to believe that she was a
medium. Placing a clean sheet of paper and a pencil
before the confessed medium, and before the visitor, the
ladies sitting at opposite sides of a large drawing-room
table, Mr. Coleman suddenly said, p Now, Spirits, write,
if you please, the same sentence through each of these
medium’s hands at the same instant.” In a moment the
medium dashed off, “ God is good,” whilst the visitor,
with her eyes fixed on the ceiling, laboriously wrote some¬
thing that could not at first be deciphered, “ Dog si doog
—Mammabut presently it was discovered to be, “ God
is good ” written backwards, and that Mamma (as was
afterwards learnt through the alphabet) was the spirit of
the visitor’s mother.
It would be easy to multiply such incidents, which it is
difficult, if not impossible, to reconcile with the hypothesis
that the entranced medium is the operator. Beasonable-
ness and credibility are, I am aware, no proof of truth.
The universe was never so intelligible as in the days of the
Schoolmen when all phenomena were logically classified
and accounted for, but at the same time, why should we
reject a sufficient explanation for an insufficient ? The
late Dr. Maitland suggested, “Why may not the Spirits
be of another race who have not lived on earth ?” Why
not? and why? We may lose ourselves in conjecture,
but I apprehend common sense will draw us back to the
conclusion that spirits are what they represent themselves
to be, namely, men and women, young and old, who have
lived in the world and have left the world, and are alto¬
gether kindred with ourselves.
Hampstead, 1st Jan. 1878.
VEGETARIANISM.
When those of the savage and paint-clad ancestors of
the present human race, who first imbibed the idea that
eating each other was not necessarily the best mode of
feeding, their more intelligent brethren must have looked
upon them as half mad, and treated them accordingly.
But with the growth of civilisation, cannibalism died out;
and as regards eating, another step in advance seems to
be not far off, since so many thinkers are now raising the
question whether it is necessary or desirable to eat the
flesh of dead beasts. The long correspondence on the
subject, once printed in these pages, amply proved that
many persons live and thrive upon vegetable diet, popular
prepossessions to the contrary notwithstanding. With
some few, vegetable diet did not agree, possibly from here¬
ditary predisposition towards the eating of flesh.
Not a few Spiritualists had turned their attention to
this subject before it came up for public examination, and
Sir Charles Isham is at the present time warmly advocat¬
ing the vegetarian system. He has written and personally
lithographed a poem on Vegetarianism, with illustrations;
the second edition is just out; it is a great improve¬
ment on the first, and is illustrated with original designs
and drawings, some of them in colour. Once we heard
Mr. Buskin point out how every man imprints his own
spirit, and his own nature, upon every carved device he
cuts, upon every drawing he executes. He said that after
a period of prolonged war, men build simply and strongly,
without spending time upon ornamentation; but later on,
when the arts of peace once again spring up, ornamenta¬
tion begins to creep over the rough buildings, and the
decorations usually represent the trailing vine, flowers, or
other natural objects. This, he argued, was the healthiest
period of a nation’s history. Time rolls on. The nation
becomes corrupt. Expensive and extravagant ornamenta¬
tion then prevails ; natural forms are no longer seen. By
way of illustration, he pointed to some specimens of the
wildly designed and elaborate flamboyant architecture of
' the Valley of the Somme, saying, in effect, that it sym-
| | bolised a time when the nation was in a state of decay*
j j when the people had become bad and heartless; when
| | that which was natural no longer gave pleasure. He said
! that there was a cruelty and an unhappiness about the
| designs, and he maintained that each particular specimen
could only have been designed by the man who did it and
| | none other, and that he had unconsciously stamped his
| | spirit and his nature upon his work. If these ideas be
I I true, Sir Charles Isham’s taste is in the healthy period of
j | growth, for he presents us with bold mechanical designs, and
| | with ornamentation in which organic forms prevail. This
I j taste for what is natural is seen very commonly among
| | Spiritualists, whose houses are not unfrequently distin-
I | guishable from those of their neighbours by the quantity
1 of tastefully arranged flowers and shrubs in front of them,
j In the early days of Spiritualism in London, the spirits
| often asked that the seance-iooms should be decorated with
| flowers.
I We do not intend to reopen the discussion on Vege-
I tarianism, for these few lines are printed merely to call
| attention to the second edition of Sir Charles Isham’s
| pamphlet, which is dedicated to Miss Paul, and entitled
| The Food We Live On. It may be obtained on sending
j eighteen stamps, for the benefit of Northampton Orphan-
| age, to “Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, North-
i ampton.”
j Just now the Vegetarian Society is actively circulating
| information, pointing out how cheaply children in charitable
! institutions can be supported on sweet pies and puddings,
without meat, and how thoroughly they like such diet.
Another proof that public attention is being called to this
subject was presented by the town of Folkestone being
placarded with bills this Christmas, to the effect that the
Quakers there were about to hold a “ fruit banquet.” Last
Tuesday we were at a vegetarian dinner of a dozen or more
courses, in West Brompton, and passed through the hos¬
pitable ordeal satisfactorily. There was a vegetarian dog on
the premises, a model dog, who—despite his teeth and Dr.
Carter Blake—had never tasted meat, and was perfectly
healthy and respectable. One obstacle in society to the
adoption of vegetarian diet, is also commonly felt in relation,
to Spiritualism, namely, that when a solitary member of a
materialistic family is sufficiently refined and sensitive to be
| | the first to take in new ideas about Spiritualism and cognate
I subjects, all the other members make as much noise as
| | pigs in their sty would do, if they discovered one of their
| | number to believe that there is something better worth living
I I for in the universe than pig-wash. When they see one of
| | their number with the nose no longer in the family pig-
| | trough, and no longer fighting for those objects which they
I and their fathers and mothers before them fought for as the
j j sum and substance of the results of existence, of course they
| | know that one in their midst has no sense, and must be pulled
|i| down into the habits, motives, and modes of thought of the
||| rest of the family group, to the great discomfort of all con-
| | cerned, for none of them can. help their inbred nature.
I ! Illustrations of this are plentiful everywhere.
I j
||| A society of Spiritualists has beeu established in Toronto, Canada,
i j under the presidency of the Rev. John Marples.
i ! On Sunday next, January 0th, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance
i address in the Spiritualists’Hall, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne;
j ! subject, “Religion.” Service commences at 6.30 p.m. On Monday,
j j January 7th, Mr. Morse will deliver a brief trance address, after which
I /1 questions from the audience will be answered; to commence at 8 p.m.
| | Mr. Morse will also hold a special chamber lecture in Sunderland on
| ji Tuesday evening, Jan. 8th ; to commence at 8 p.m.
| | The National Association of Spiritualists.—The unwisdom of the
111 Council of the National Association of Spiritualists having delegated to
| | individuals the power of printing matters in the name of the Association,
| | which have not been sanctioned by the Council, is to be seen in the last
/1 agenda. There the Association endorses the powers and character of
(j mediums it has never tested, and has by this unasked mark of recog-
i [ | nition placed them on a level with others whose powers it has tested for
| ! years. All the mediums mentioned, so far as we know, may be very re-
| i spectable people, but should anyone of them prove not to be so, he
| i now has the power to point out to any court of law in which he may
II i chance to be prosecuted for any offence, that he is recognised by the
| (j National Association of Spiritualists, a fact upon which hostile news-
i i i papers will seize at once, and permit no explanation.
8
Jan. 4, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
forng.
MAKING THE BED: A NEW YEAR’S MEMORY.
Years ago—let me think how many—
Ere my father and mother died,
I was at home for my holidays
In the olden Christmastide.
And in my thoughtless girlhood,
I sat by the fire and read,
While my mother with the servant
Bustled and made my bed.
My father chid me softly,
But I only pouted and cried;
How could I be bed-making
In my happy holidaytide ?
Other girls had not to do it,
And so no more was said ;
I sat and read my novel,
While my mother made the bed.
For I fretted we were not richer,
Though I knew from morning to night,
They worked till her hands were feeble,
His head grew weary and white.
But soon, Oh, how soon it now seems !
I tended her latest breath,
I made the bed for my mother,
But it was her bed of Death.
And with tears I am strewing the flowers.
Where rests my father’s head,
As I sit in the cemetery,
And weep by his lowly bed.
Oh, father! Oh, mother! How was it
I never seemed to know
How very dearly I loved you,
In that happy long-ago?
You were poor. Your earthly riches
Had taken wings and fled:
But you spent your lives to win me,
My girlhood’s board and bed.
And now from your peaceful mansions,
Up in the spirit spheres,
You know my late repentance,
You can see my bitter tears.
And I’m sure that you forgive me,
Or all my peace would be fled,
A s I sit in my mourning garments
Watching your daisied bed.
1878. P.
^orreapontience.
[Great freedom isgiven to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this jownal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be "kept by the writers.']
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR. CARPENTER’S QUOTATIONS.
Sir,—The last number of the Athenceum contains a letter from Dr. ]'
"W. B. Carpenter, in which he rebukes Mr. A. R. Wallace for negligence 11
in not ascertaining, and consequent misrepresentation of, the real con- ! I
elusion arrived at by the French Academy of Medicine on the subject i j
of Animal Magnetism. j(
Does Dr. Carpenter never show negligence, is he never mistaken in j \
his representations of other peoples’ opinions ? Let us see.
On page 558 of Fraser s Magazine for November, Dr. Carpenter j |
says “ the Reverend C. Maurice Davies, a well known author, who 11
was far from being unfavourably disposed to Spiritualism, and who
was at the time a member of the council of the British National ! |
Association of Spiritualists, thus describes, in his Mystic London, the j I
part taken by Mr. Crookes (whom he styles 1 the professor’) at a i
seance at which he was present And he afterwards speaks of 11
Mr. Crookes’ conduct in the matter, as having given the final death- i I
blow to his belief that there might be ‘ something’ in the face-manifest- j J
ations 1” All the pronouns in the above passage unmistakably refer j i
to Dr. Davies.
Now, will it be believed that, with the exception of the “his” before j
Mystic London, they all (in the original) as unmistakably refer to a j
different person, a friend of Dr. Davies, whose name is not given.
Again, Dr. Carpenter’s words “thus describes,” evidently refer the
description (which I have omitted for brevity) to Dr. Davies, Jbut j
it is really by the nameless friend.
The passage I have taken from Dr. Carpenter has reference to pages |
314, 318, and 319 of Mystic London. But every paragraph on those
pages has marks of quotation, by tracing which, back to page 307, it
will be found that Dr. Davies expressly says that the three following
chapters are “ the communications of a friend” who has investigated
this mysterious Borderland (Spiritualism) on his own account, and
that he (Dr. Davies) is “ not responsible for the conclusions at which
he (the friend) arrives.”
Perhaps I ought to apologise to Dr. Davies for thus writing about
him, but my object is not to defend a man so well able to take care of
himself, it is merely to expose the negligence and untrustworthiness |
of Dr. Carpenter.
My view of Dr. Carpenter’s onslaught is that Spiritualists ought to
be very thankful to him for having written it. If he—a man of known
and acknowledged ability—can find nothing more conclusive to bring
forward against Spiritualism, it is fair to infer that nothing more con- j
elusive can easily be found, and I, therefore, congratulate Spiritualists
on the prospect of their cause soon triumphing over its opponents.
Dr. Carpenter evidently intends to crush our little party if he can,
but we can afford to be magnanimous, so let us laugh at his small
attempts and elect him by acclamation an honorary member of the
British National Association of Spiritualists. W. Whitear.
High-street, Hornsey, Dec. 24th, 1877.
WHAT IS THE INTELLIGENCE?
Sir,—Mr. Massey’s article containing Mr. Simmons’s observations is,
as usual, pregnant with exact facts and reasoning. We have to thank
him for a sentence which should be inscribed in letters of gold over
our portals, “ The powers of the human spirit are like a heritage, of
which the permanent enjoyment is deferred.”
The most important point in Mr. Massey’s paper is the theory that
the duplicated limbs of the medium, which are admittedly instru¬
mental in many physical phenomena, may be the sources of force
whence the pencil is moved in a bond fide case of slate-writing, like
those of Slade or Watkins. Such theory involves the supposition that
there is a hand which moves in a confined space between a slate and a
table, or, in the case of some book slates, in a space into which it is
impossible to introduce a paper cutter. Such hand presupposes for
the act of writing, a substantial elbow, and an arm to it, with radial,
wrist, and finger muscles of normal proportions in cases where the
writing is of the normal size.
It is impossible for the ordinary human “ accidental ” hand to be
placed above or within the slate, and the inquirer has, I humbly
submit, to advance only two hypotheses which explain the genuine
phenomena.
Either, the hand, which must move with a certain amount of flexi¬
bility to produce any writing, must be so diminished in size as to be
extremely minute, so as to be able to grasp no object larger than the
crumb of slate-pencil which is usually employed; or, the force so pro¬
ducing the writing must have its fulcrum beneath or outside the slate,
and must pass through the matter of the slate.
If such a theory were to be adopted, it would be well to consider
that the writing so produced would be reversed on the slate, unless, of
course, the “ medium ” or “control ” were to will the contrary. Such
a case has never been seen by me, though, of course, I am far from
denying its possibility.
The conclusion must therefore be arrived at, either that the “ astral
form ” (I adopt, as the leaders in the science have done before me, M.
Blavatsky’s highly convenient nomenclature, which no doubt will soon
be universally employed, for the reason that it is better defined than
that hitherto used by Spiritualists) is smaller than, or as large as, the
actual hands of the medium.
The few cases in which writing has been obtained with long slate-
pencils placed on the slate, and held at a distance of some inches
beneath the table by the sitter, while the medium’s actual hands have
been on the table, and in full view, with good light, are not, I submit,
explicable under the first theory, but may, perhaps, be so under the
second.
To my mind, the phenomena, though rare, produced when a long
pencil is employed, are even more interesting than those ;with the
pencil crumb, though they possibly require a far greater amount of
force.
The next point in Mr. Massey’s article is that in which he speaks of
knowledge being displayed which has never been in the mind during
its earthly experience. If there are such cases (I do not mean to hint
that there are not), I think we ought to have a tabulated statement of
them, with dates, and names of witnesses. Such a table would take
months to prepare, and would be of inestimable value to those persons
who seek to find out “ What is the intelligence 1 ” and who in that
investigation have received material assistance from the theories, each
of which covers many facts, of M. Blavatsky, Miss JKislingbui’y, Mr.
Massey, and Dr. "Wyld.
In conclusion, let me thoroughly coincide with Mr. Massey that my
friend Mr. J. Simmons is “one of the most intelligent Spiritualists it
has been my fortune to know.” It is but rarely in this science that he
who has seen much is identifiable with him who has thought much, and
that the perceptive qualities of the observer have been united with the
reasoning faculties of the philosopher. Had it been otherwise, the
science would have been before now in a higher position. But with
regard to such cases as that of Mr. Watkins, Mr. Simmons has assumed
the existence of a “spirit” independent from the minds of Miss Kis-
lingbury or the medium. I hope he will give us the reasons which lead
him to advance the hypothesis, as I for one cannot see my way to its
acceptance. Such a hypothesis, if advanced, should cover all, and not
some of the facts; and metaphysicians have only to cast their eyes to
France at the present moment to see that a loyal obedience, and perfect
faith in the contenant, is not incompatible with a vigorous denial of the
contenu; whilst there are to be found ingenious persons amongst whom
I would be sorry to be numbered, who can manage to justify a converse
proposition to their own minds. But Mr. Simmons is nearer to the
seat of war than I am. C. Carter Blake.
Sir,—In Mr. Massey’s excellent comments on Mr. Simmons’s no lees
excellent observations with regard to psychographic phenomena, there
are one or two points on which I will venture a few remarks.
Mr. Massey is of opinion that little difficulty need be felt in accept¬
ing the view that the pencil is moved by the duplicated hand of the
medium. The fact that the crumb of pencil generally used has often
been seen falling from the vertical position employed in writing, just
as the slate has been drawn from under the table, would point to the
conclusion that the writing agency had grasped and used the pencil
Jan. 4, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
9
after the manner of human fingers. But how about the cases, of which ]
many are on record, in which the writing is produced without any ]
pencil at all ? [)
Mr. Massey speaks of “views advanced” by me on this subject. |j
Without, I hope, being considered captious, I must demur to this j
expression. I have merely experimented in the direction pointed out j (
by others, and my experiments, as far as they went, seemed to verify j <
their theories. But I agree with Mr. Simmons that all that was j j
proved was the possibility of interposing our own will, and causing it j<
to predominate over any other will that might be present. But here ]1
we stumble upon a very important fact, viz., that the will of the j (
embodied spirit is as good, i.e,, as strong as that of the disembodied ] <
spirit, if such be present. Where then, is the superiority of the dis' j ]
embodied over the embodied 1 Wherein lies the presumption that we j,
are communing with immortal spirits, if those spirits are so much j i
weaker than our own ?
I am aware that I am here trenching upon dangerous ground, which |,
is also somewhat foreign to the question before us. But it grows, to
my mind, out of the inquiry started by Mr. Massey, “ What is the I
intelligence ?” and which is really at the back of the question, !
“ What moves the pencil?”
At my first sitting with Mr. Watkins, I wrote on slips of paper the i
names of my father, a brother, and a sister in the other life. In a
subsequent communication signed with the 'name of that sister on a j
slate held by me, and not touched at all by Mr. Watkins; the names
of my father and brother were repeated, but that of another brother
who would probably have been in the same group, if they had really j
visited me, was not mentioned. Why was this ? was it because I had ]
not mentioned him, and that, therefore, the spirit of the medium did j
not read his name in my astral surroundings 1 This seems more likely |
than that a pure and noble spirit such as his should refuse to recognise ]
me because I had not written his name on a piece of paper. An
excellent opportunity was here given for my sister to prove her
identity by introducing a name not already mentioned, and which
would have been the most natural thing for her to do.
On the other hand, I do not pretend that this experiment proves
anything. It merely indicates that the knowledge of the communicat¬
ing intelligence is bounded by the knowledge, expressed or latent, of
embodied minds. Further experiments may land us in a region whose
supermundane position will be beyond dispute or doubt.
I think it of the utmost importance that we should not “make
haste” to fix our views with regard to the various phenomena which
we are only in course of observing. It is often difficult, while con¬
sidering certain specific theories, to avoid appearing as if those
theories were the only ones worth considering. But thoughtful per¬
sons will not be led away by such appearances. The mind cannot
occupy itself exclusively with two propositions at one and the same
moment, and it is necessary, in the important inquiry in which
Spiritualists are engaged, for them to examine with more than usual
thoroughness every theory which may possibly lead them to a complete
generalisation of the facts with which they have to deal.
I, therefore, deprecate most strongly the tacking together of names
and views merely because they are, as they must be, sometimes
temporarily associated for the purposes of investigation.
Emily Kislingbury.
88, Great Russell-street, London.
AN ENCYCLOPAEDIST ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—I wonder how many people are aware of what the Encyclo¬
paedia Metropolitana says about Spiritualism ? In the treatise on occult
science, extracted from thence and published by Griffin in 1855, the
author says:—“We deem it unwise to pronounce dogmatically either
for or against any given fact until the evidence be fairly ascertained.
Every one, however, must of necessity meet such announcements in a
certain attitude of mind. For ourselves we accept these two fundamental
principles, not as idle theories, but as an essential part of Christianity :—
1st, the continued personal identity of the human spirit after death; and
2nd, the possible intercourse of disembodied spirits with mankind. Here
is the common ground on which, we presume, all believers of the
revealed word may stand together. The laws of spiritual intercourse,
or the power that spirits have to effect any purpose in this world, or that
men, on the other hand, have to converse with spirits ; are they fair
subjects of experimental and philosophical inquiry; as rational and
likely to lead to valuable results, as the inquiries of Franklin and of
Priestley into electricity. Inadvertently, we have named one of the
standing miracles of the age, by which space is annihilated and the
friendship and interest of mankind have girdled the globe with Ariel-like
swiftness. The lightning already speaks for us, and the sunbeams paint
ourselves and the scenery we move in with a fidelity which no mortal hand
can equal; yet these discoveries, every one feels, are only the dawnings
and shadows of things to come.”—Pp. 203, 204.
Would the savants set down the Encyclopsedist as a fool or knave—or
both ? Christian Positivist.
THE “SPIRITLESS SOULS ” OF THE THEOSOPHISTS.
Sir,—In the Revue Spirite of November we find the following :—“ It
would require much space to enumerate the services already rendered by
typtology, and to note the facts of importance elicited thereby. It is to
table-rapping that we are indebted for the remarkable poetry of the
Spirit-Rapper of Carcassonne. Spirits have been reproached frequently
for their mediocrity in prose; the spirit-rapper of Carcassonne carried
away the prize at the floral games of Toulouse, for a fable in verse.” A
specimen of the poetry of this spirit versifier, through table-rapping, has
appeared for a long time in the Revue Spirite almost monthly, although
physical mediumship is not held in much esteem in France. You kindly
inserted in your journal, some months back, an attempt of mine to
| render into English a fable, in allusion to the present unfortunate war,
| from the verse of the spirit-rapper aforesaid. I have now made another
attempt to translate the spirit-rapper of Carcassonne’s verse from the
j Revue Spirite of November. It touches upon what we all understand
when we talk of the spirit of the Pharisee, who had the character of
] being full of his own self-assertive superiority and self-righteousness,
! while he despised others. Whether that pride be materialistic or
| Spiritual; whether assumed on vicarious grounds, or otherwise, it has
the same source and the same fruit. Here is my attempt
What! said a savant proud. Can fools be led
To think it possible to raise the dead!
You, friend of yore, so versed in views material,
Do you now seek to call forth ghosts aerial ?
Come, be sincere; can you raise up the dead?
The Bible; Socrates . . . You have lost your head!
Saul and his peers are wholly out of season;
The shade of Socrates defies all reason.
Youare mad or mountebank, the which you will,
i j One of the two; yet, more presumptuous still,
i! Dost understand me now; what can you prove ?
1 j Sir, our device is Charity and Love.
Much can we prove, but prudence is our aim;
I To learn and apprehend is what we claim
J To be our duty; what is more, our right.
) j We use our private judgment, ears, and sight.
|J This is our stand-point firm; nor will we botch it,
And mar its fair results for anybody’s crotchet.
Folly! . . . Not so. We know the pride of science.
)! The savant true is different, without defiance.
) j He meditates, observes; but boldly goes en avant*
(I He knows the savant proud is nothing but “ a savant."
(Signed) The Spirit-Rapper of Carcassonne,
II One certainly regrets that this unhappy table-rapper, according to
(| Col. Olcott, “ cannot bring forth good fruit; ” although it has been said
! | that by our words we shall be justified, and by our words condemned;
|| because uphysical mediumship in general” comes under the Theoso-
(j phist’s ban. Colonel Olcott, their champion, says, “ Evil influences are
[ j alone drawn towards such magnets.” He tells us “ That mediumistic
) ] physical phenomena are not produced by pure spirits, but by ‘ souls ’
(| embodied ox disembodied P And what is his definition of “ soul”? He
j calls it “ the astral man, or double, or soul,” and he tells us, “ From a
j being thus brutalised, the divine, immortal spirit has shrunk in horror,
(j and death finds the man but a duality, of which one part goes into the
.) i ground to rot, the other wanders in and about the habitations of men,
I /1 obsessing sensitives, to glut vicariously its depraved appetites, until its
! \ \ life is burnt out by their very intensity, and dissolution comes to crown
(j the dreadful career. These earth-bound souls then, that the Romans
(] called the larvae, are the ‘ elementaries’of the Theosophical society.”
1 (j Mark, all Spiritualism produced by physical mediumship, without
j j | exception, all deceased souls, whom we may have supposed to be the
j) i spirits of our nearest and dearest ones—our mothers, fathers, children
i ! —who may have given us, by some tender and well remembered signs,
j [ I the strongest proofs of their identity; who may have come to us also,
I \ | before and did since, uncalled, whether in sleeping or waking, friends
j i! whom we may have often seen clairvoyantly, or heard clair-audiently, in
| | the same way as all ancient books on religion give hundreds on hundreds
! (S of instances of; not to mention many other spirits—for I must still call
j (j them such—whom, judging them by their words and works, it would be
| j | hard to contaminate with the felon’s brand, all, I say, brought before us
)j by any physical mediumship whatever, “from rapping to full form
(I manifestations,” are, according to Colonel Olcott, but mere “souls,”
> “ elementaries,” who, whether in bodily or fluidic life, have already lost
In their immortal spirits, and are only waiting until, burnt out by their
j (! own vice, they shall be “ annihilated ’’ / And, since they are not the
i ji beings they profess to be, are necessarily deceivers, liars, demons—all,
m all! And you, too, spirit-rapper of Carcassonne, with your moral,
|) | witty, pungent sayings, coming, as they do, through physical medium-
) ship, are but one of Colonel Olcott’s spiritless “souls”; “glutting
] (| vicariously your depraved appetites, until your life shall be burnt out
n by their very intensity,” in honest, worthy satire of self-righteous
I Pharisees! I should like to know, if this spirit-rapper be vicarious,
j jj who is his rector ? for he is assuredly not an “ elemental ” to be made
n a slave of. Certainly, those who would believe the Colonel, and say
i {| that his spirit-rapper has lost his spirit, cannot say he has lost the
I spirit of candour, and truth, and repartee.
All this of Colonel Olcott is very sweeping indeed. “ Let them,”
| /1 Bismarck is reported to have remarked when Paris was surrounded by
|(j German troops—“ Let them stew in their own juice.” But this, be it
1)! remembered, was only spoken of the bodies of men, not of their souls,
j (! which many believe are never separated from their spirits, either before
j (j or after leaving earth; which last, I mean the spirits of men, we quite
|) | agree with Col. Olcott, are at any rate eternal and immortal, as sparks
j f j of Divinity. Bismarck would, I verily believe, have shrunk at that
! which a Theosophist, taught by “ elementals,” can allege with such
j )j infinite coolness ; but who can possess, we think, but little of the spirit of
! (j the despised “ Spirit-Rapper of Carcassonne ” (for I must still aver that
|J| it has a spirit, the Colonel notwithstanding), whose “device is Charity
j)i and Love;” little of the spirit of the angels’ text, which is, “Good
i(| tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people;” and perhaps but a
|(l cloudy remembrance of who it is that has made us all, and not we our-
i)j selves, consequently, whose people we are of necessity and right, just
|j| as much as a watch is just such as its maker has fashioned it. Many of
iji those whom Colonel Olcott calls “ souls,” bereft of spirit, “ astral men,”
m “elementaries,” are bad enough, doubtless, in all conscience; but we
I i cannot take for granted all that “elementals,” under compulsion, teach
iji Theosophists concerning “elementaries.” We cannot but think that
it* * Forward.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 4, 187A
ID
there must be a good deal of calumny somewhere, and a good deal of
weakness in receiving as gospel much that may come from, perhaps, the
doubles of the inquirers, those “ cloud-compelling Joves,” the Theo-
sophists. All “ elementaries ” have lost their spirits, according to
Colonel Olcott, whether in the body or out of it; and all souls who
come to physical mediumship are without spirits. This may be the
teaching, also, of some of the caste-ridden Brahmins of the pagodas, at
whose “practices, penances, and phariseeism,” Max Muller tells us,
Sakya Muni, the great Buddha was so shocked. But, wherever and
however these sentiments may take their rise, Col. Olcott’s is, at any
rate, a genuine attempt to explain Spiritualism without spirits.
I rejoice to find that Kardec’s del et I’Enfer, translated by Miss
Blackwell, is at length coming out; for, I think, it deals with evil men
who have left the world, and also with some in the world, more ration¬
ally and more justly than does Colonel Olcott, yet stringently enough
for any but those whom the great statesman Burke called, “ these bitter
professors of the graces of religion.” This book deals also, shortly,
with the power of mediums over spirits lower than themselves, among
which M. Kardec enumerates primitive spirits (esprits primitifs), which
appear to be synonymous with the “ elementals ” of Colonel Olcott.
Signor Bosco, the conjuror, gave proof of this power of mediums over
low spirits when he used to produce most extraordinary Spiritual effects
by making lads on his platform say, in Italian, words which, being
translated, mean—‘“Infernal spirits, obey!” “Spirits,” I would
remark, infernal though they were called, but not, as Colonel Olcott
would call them, mere “souls,” bereft of spirit.
It would not be, I think, difficult to show that Colonel Olcott is not
only inconsistent with reference to the great Eastern religions, to
which he professes to adhere, as well as mistaken as regards the teaching
of Jesus which he advances; but also that he does great injustice to the
grand doctrine of evolution, and that of the selection of the fittest, by
forcing them into the support of his most unscientific assumption that
souls or anything else kcan be “annihilated.” I think the great philo¬
sophers he quotes would be the first to tell him that nothing is ever
lost, but that everything that may seem lost only, reappears under new
combinations; and it is unjust, too, to quote Darwin and Wallace in
confirmation of his most illiberal doctrine that—“The indiscriminate
attainment of immortality would be contrary to the analogies of nature,
and repugnant to the ideas of strict justice.” • As if the attainment of
immortality could be without discrimination, or any of God’s works
devoid of justice or incompatible with goodwill towards mankind, God’s
offspring.
I am, however, happy to find that all Theosophists do not agree with
Colonel Olcott. I may say, without sorrow, that there is a division in
the camp. Doctors differ among the Theosophists, as they do even
among the Brahmins. So, while Colonel Olcott is seeking the self-
assumed aristocracy of ancient Brahmin caste, with its “practices,
penances, and Phariseeism,” that “shocked” the great and righteous
Buddha, we find that these very practices are on the wane among the
Hindoos themselves. We will not be so uncharitable as to say of them
what Colonel Olcott says of the souls of so many men, that “ they are
burning out by their own intensity, until dissolution comes to crown
their direful careers.” No, let us take a milder tone, let us say, with
Bismarck, “ Stewing away in their own juice.” We will quote Mr. G.
M. Tagore, himself a Brahmin, in our behalf, who tells us, in The
Spiritualist of February 25th, 1876 :—“ Wherever monotheistic ideas
gain ground, caste gives way before them. Castes, consequently, are
breaking up in India.”
But it is not alone the mysteries of the Pagodas to which the “inner
ring” of the Theosophists “ adhere,” which are now being avoided by
the more liberal Brahmins themselves, but there exists evidently also a
striking diversity of opinion among the Theosophists themselves,
judging from their writings; for “ An English Member of the Theoso-
phical Society,” in most exact contrast to Colonel Olcott’s condemnation
of “ souls,” or “ elementaries,” to “ annihilation,” quotes in The
Spiritualist of March 10th, 1878, “A very learned Occultist,” who
tells us, “ When the elementary dies out of one state of existence he is
born into a higher one ; and when man dies out of the world of gross
matter, he is born into one more etherial; so on, from sphere to sphere,
man never losing his trinity!” Just as I now say of the Colonel’s
explanation of an elementary, and his description of the super-
abounding loss of trinity among men, “ This looks a deal too bad.” So
when nearly two years ago I read this learned occultist’s pleasing
account of the destiny of “elementaries,” and the agreeable allotment
of a happy, unruffled progress after death for all mankind, I exclaimed,
“ This, I fear, looks too good ; ” and I was irresistibly reminded of an
ancient ditty—one, I believe, of what were called The Bailey Ballads—
in which Mr. Bailey, their author, avowed, as his idea apparently of the
summit of bliss, that—
He’d be a butterfly, born in a bower,:
Where roses and lilies and violets meet;
Roving for ever from flower to flower,
Kissing all buds that are pretty and sweet.
So far Mr. Bailey, and all the Theosophists, not omitting Colonel
Olcott, seem to be in most sweet accord as regards their own personal
souls. But now, when I come to the next verse, where Mr. Bailey
owns that—
He’d never languish for wealth or for power,
He’d never sigh to see slaves at his feet,”
I am struck with the utter discord of his sentiments with those of
Colonel Olcott, who, as a “ perfect initiate, has absolute dominion over
the forces of nature,” which he makes his obedient servants, so would
naturally scorn unfortunate Mr. Bailey, who was so evidently an
adversary of slave-driving, and one who was quite willing to let the
elements, and the elementals also, take their own course. But what¬
ever may be the views on these points of the more liberal members of
the Theosophical Society, one nevertheless regrets that, when we
thought we had a right to expect something tangible and consistent
| from the Theosophical camp, we only get opinions the reverse of har-
j monious, or rather, in one sense, so entirely diverse, that beyond it the
! force of contrast can no further go. Scrutator.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—I would, with your permission, submit to your readers, particu¬
larly to “ T. J.,” the following account of a seance held with E. W.
Wallis; it may also be an encouragement to that gentleman to go on in
the good work in which he has been engaged. Any of your corre¬
spondents who may think that he can account for the facts in any way
other than that the spirit who gave the message was then and there
present and controlling the medium, may give us the benefit of his
views.
On the 18th July, 1876, I was in London with a son, twenty-one years
> I of age, and learned that public seances were held at the house of Mrs.
) \ Burke. We called at the time for holding one of the meetings, were
[ i joined by Mrs. Burke and daughter and Mr. and Mrs. Wallis, all of
11 whom formed the circle. Mr. Wallis was entranced, and in the character
11 of a rollicking Irishman gave me some appropriate personal advice, when
| j suddenly the control changed, the medium seemed much distressed, and
| to suffer great pain in trying to speak to me. The only word we could
make out was “ Son, son.” I asked if he were my son. Signs were
then made for writing materials. A fly leaf was torn from a sheet of
note paper, and with pencil he wrote (with great distortions of the
| medium’s body) “ I am in great pain or I would be able to speak. I have
| been wounded by the kick of a horse in my leg and head. I am not
| your son, but a friend of Iris ” (signed Burt). The signature, like many
we meet every day, was not so well written as to enable us to be sure
what it was ; but on the 27th August following, when at Edinburgh, I
received a letter from my eldest son, dated Melbourne, 10 th July, in
| which he, mentioning the death of a number of Colonists, says, “ Mr.
Burt, brother-in-law to Mr. It , was killed off horseback during the
month.” I at once looked up the communication, and had no difficulty
in making the signature out. I send now a photographic copy of the
; writing, so that any interested may judge for themselves.
] The accident is mentioned in a telegram in the Melbourne papers of
Saturday, 1st July, as having occurred on the previous Saturday.
! To the above I may add that we were total strangers to the medium
and the persons we sat with; that neither the son with me, nor myself,
| had ever heard of such a person as Mr. B. , yet no doubt he was
. i known to my son in Melbourne; that unless a telegram had been sent
[ | from Australia of the death, no one in the room could be aware of it, the
j u sitting being held about a month after the death; that we had no con-
] | versation with those we sat with to lead them to know or infer who we
I ] were or where we came from. J. Carson.
I (j 4, Warwick-crescent, Maida Yale, London, W., Dec. 26th, 1877.
|( i Mexican Spiritualists have established at Yera Cruz a new institu-
) | tion, or college, called Esperanza.
| The death of a remarkable medium, Professor Ladieres, of Vienna,
) j Austria, is announced in the Revue Spirits of Paris.
11 Marvellous cures are reported as being made at Alicante, Spain, by
i mesmerism.
11 The Viscount de Torres Solanot has resumed charge of the Madrid
) | Spiritualistic journal. He is still busy in an attempt to have Spirit-
11 ualism represented at the Paris Exhibition.
i Spiritualism in Dalston.—At a meeting of council of the Dalston
Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism held recently, Mrs. Corner,
| vice-president, occupied the chair; Mr. Thos. Blyton, Mr. Edwin
Dottridge, Mr. E. A. March, Mr. B,. Pearce, Mr. J. Rouse, Mr. J.
Toseland, and Mrs. Wood were also present. Messrs. Edwin Dottridge,
Richard Pearce, and R. A. March were elected members of council.
Letters of general interest were read from the Rev. Samuel Watson,
Dr. Wm. B. Carpenter, F.R.S., Mr. Wm. Crookes, F.R.S , Mr. Alfred
| R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Mr. Edwin Dottridge, Miss F. J. Theobald,
and Mrs. Wm. Tebb. Presentations were laid upon the table and
accepted with a cordial vote of thanks to the respective donors, viz.,
) j Mr. Win. Crookes, F.R.S., Miss Kislingbury, Rev. Samuel Watson,
(j Mr. Edwin Dottridge, and Mrs. Tebb. Mr. A. L. Elder was elected
11 to a life membership, and Miss Edith L. Stone, and Mr. A. Tucker
) i to ordinary membership. On the recommendation of the committee
(| appointed at the last meeting of council, it was unanimously resolved
11 “ that a committee be appointed consisting of Mrs. Corner, Mrs.
) i Wood, Messrs. J. Rouse, J. Toseland, Thos. Blyton, and Edwin Dott-
(| ridge, with power to add to their number either from members or
) j non-members of the association and from which body sub-committees
/ j may be formed, for the purpose of organising regular seances for the
\ i express object of evolving advanced phases of spirit manifestations.
) | The seances to be conducted at the private residences of members of
(| the committee as may be agreed upon. A careful record of all the
(| proceedings to be kept, certified, and reported by the committee to
I i the council for recording in the books or discussion before the as-
(I sociation from time to time.” The consideration of the proposed new
) | year’s entertainment, under the auspices of the several metropolitan
) i spiritualist and psychological societies, was deferred sine die. The
( i usual instruction was given for drafting the annual report, and Mr.
j R. Pearce was deputed to act in conjunction with Mr. G. R. Tapp in
| auditing the accounts for year ending 31st inst. The hon. secretary
) \ was authorised to make the necessary arrangements for the fortnightly
• I Monday evening discussion meetings in January next. The seventh
| i annual general meeting was formally announced for Thursday, January
!i 31st next. The council then adjourned.
Jan. 4, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 11
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
At a seance for inquirers held at the rooms of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, on Wednesday, the 26th December, 1877, the circle
consisted of ten persons, including the medium, Mr. W.
Eglinton. After the usual preliminary examination of the
cabinet, and the secure fastenings of the medium’s hands, feet,
and body, the gas was turned down till it gave a dim light,
and the sitters had scarcely seated themselves before the
manifestations commenced. A hand was distinctly seen to
pull aside the curtain at the extreme end of the cabinet, and
was again visible in front of the medium, removing several
articles which had been placed on the Oxford chimes upon
his knees ; at the same time, raps and sounds were heard at
the back of the cabinet.
At the suggestion of one of the sitters, a book was placed
on the medium’s knees, and was opened and shut several
times, without any hand or finger being visible ; in answer
to inquiry, “Joey” said it was not necessary to mate¬
rialise for this purpose, as he threw off the power from the
medium’s hands to produce the result.
After sundry jokes and remarks, “Joey” requested that
the sitters who were nearest to the cabinet should enter it as
quickly as possible after a hand was made visible in front, to
examine the position and fastenings of the medium’s
hands; this being done, it was found that the medium’s
hands and all fastenings were intact; scarcely a moment’s
interval elapsed between the time of the hand being visible
in front of the cabinet, and the examination of the medium’s
hands securely fastened behind him. The genuineness of the
phenomena appeared to be satisfactorily proved to all
present. T. H. Edmands,
Member of the Seance Committee, in Charge.
FAY VERSUS CARPENTER.
(To the Editor of the “Banner of Light” Boston, U.S., Dec. 22nd.)
I wish to state a few facts in reference to an article in your paper of
Dec. 8th referring to myself, in a letter of Mr. Crookes on Dr. Car¬
penter’s attack.
First, it is untrue that Mr. Crookes gave me a letter speaking of the
spiritualistic nature of my manifestations, and referring to Fellows of
the Royal Society. The only letter, to my knowledge, that Mr.
Crookes ever wrote regarding my mediumsbip (with the exception of
the one written to Mr. Cooper) appeared in the London Daily
Telegraph, and other journals, March 11th, 1875.
Second, in reply to Dr. Carpenter’s statement that an offer was made
by my managers in May, 1875, of an equivalent sum of money for me
to “ expose the whole affair,” I will now say to Dr. Carpenter, as I did
to my managers, 1 have nothing to expose.
I am in receipt of a letter, dated November 18th, 1877, asking me if
I will fix a price to visit England under the title of an “ Exposee,”
and show how I am supposed to have hoodwinked members of the
Royal Society.
My reply was as follows:—“ As poor as I am, and as clever as I am
supposed to be by Dr. Carpenter and others, I am obliged to decline
your tempting proposition to replenish my exchequer by attempting
impossibilities. I sincerely hope to be able to maintain myself and
child in a more honourable occupation.” Annie Eva Fat.
Akron, Ohio, December 10th, 1877.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal, the Chicago Spiritualistic news¬
paper, lost several thousand dollars a few weeks ago, through the
failure of two or three banks. It can well afford to bear the loss.
On Monday, Jan. 14th, the fortnightly discus sion. meetings at 38
Great Russell-street, will be re-opened with a paper by Mr. Thomas
Shorter on “ Form-Manifestations; are they due to Embodied or Dis¬
embodied Spirits?”
Mr. J. M. Peebles reached London last Saturday. He has taken the
degree of Doctor of Medicine in Philadelphia, after working for it, and
has shown us the diploma authorising him to follow the profession in
the United States.
The Council of the National Association of Spiritualists holds its
monthly meeting on Tuesday next. One of the notices of motion is
that Mr. Algernon Joy, M.Inst.C.E., be asked to resume his former
post of honorary secretary to the Association; the mover will be Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory.
The Boston Herald says:—“The published accounts of the recent
meeting of the French Medical Society chronicle the investigations of
a physician into the temperature of the surface of the head in health
and disease. The instruments he employed, the methods adopted, and
results obtained, will be of service to those students who are experi¬
menting in the same direction with medicine in a normal and abnormal
state.”
A CATHOLIC CANON ON INDEPENDENT SLATE-WRITING.
To the Editor of “ The Banner of Light.”
La Renovation, of Belgium, has an article on Dr. Slade from the pen
(I think of its editor) of the Chanoine AT. Mouls. This authorised
Canon of the “ holy church” devotes nearly three columns of the Reno¬
vation to a couple of seances held with said American medium. I will
give here, very briefly, what he has to say:—“ Being an attentive
reader of what the Belgian papers have, with all laudable and praise¬
worthy frankness, reported concerning Dr. Slade, I was, with some
friends, desirous of studying seriously the phenomena alleged to take
place in his presence.” The table being thoroughly examined, and the
medium seated to the satisfaction of the visitors, Dr. Slade took a slate
with a bit of pencil upon it, as usual, and held it under the table.
“ Suddenly,” says the Chanoine, “ we heard a kind of grating noise, and
presently a knock, which signified that the slate could be withdrawn.
Upon it were two sentences, one in French, the other in English, as
follows:—‘ Paul, serviteur de Dieu et apotre de Jesus Christ, pour
instruire les elus de Dieu dans la foi et dans la connaisance de la verite
qui est selon la piete? And, 1 They are glad I come and give you proof
of my presence ; we hope it will impress in your souls the love of God
and His high works.’
“ ‘ Now,’ said Dr. Slade through the interpreter, ‘ if you desire it we
will try to raise the table.’ I placed my feet upon his while his hands
with ours formed a chain on top of the table, which rose suddenly twenty-
five or thirty centimetres, then fell heavily upon the floor. * Let us try
and raise M. X. with his chair.’ He placed his outstretched right hand
upon the back of M. X.’s chair while his left hand remained in the chain,
and suddenly M. X. and chair rose to the height of some thirty or forty
centimetres.
“At a second seance the Doctor was in front of me, and on my left
was Mr. L , a learned philosopher (or un grand philosophe). Dr.
Slade’s hands were on the table while we felt others patting us upon our
knees. A chair in the room was overturned, and a bell upon the table
was thrown over my head into a distant corner of the chamber, Dr.
Slade’s hands and feet remaining perfectly immovable. Lastly, I myself
placed a slate, well verified, under the table, with a bit of pencil upon it.
Immediately we heard writing going on, and when, at a signal, I with¬
drew the slate, it had on it, beautifully written and well lined, an extract
from the New Testament, but too long to be here quoted. Behold here
the facts in all their simplicity, as have been reported, and are sustained
by the Chronique, le Progres de Charleroi (given in my late Review in
the Banner), &c., &c. . . . Spiritualists like Socrates and Plato, like
those of the great school of Alexandria, know; yes, we know through
science certain bases, not only metaphysical, but facts multiplied daily
of this immense science, too little known, mesmerism, that the soul
exists; that it often quits the body and makes voyages by itself. ....
Dr. Slade has a familiar spirit, which attends him day and night. . . .
He is his Fidele Acathe. Though superior to the Doctor, he is, neverthe¬
less of an inferior order in the world of spirits. . . . And this is not our
first experience; we have experimented a thousand times, and we are
Spiritualists from the force of facts. . . .
The heavens may fall, but truth will survive the ruin.”
G. L. Ditson.
Another of Allan Kardec’s works, Heaven and Hell, most carefully
translated by Miss Anna Blackwell, was published yesterday.
Mediums who can obtain strong physical phenomena in daylight, like
those once common in the presence of Mrs. Mary Marshall, are much
wanted in England. Probably this demand can be met from America.
The publication of the second edition of the late Professor Gregory’s
book on Animal Magnetism has given considerable impetus to the study
of mesmerism, for there is a large and continuous demand for it in all
parts of the globe where the English language is spoken.
A New Spiritualistic Book.—We are about to bring out a new
scientific book in connection with Spiritualism, written by “M.A.
(Oxon)” — whose name is a guarantee of good literary work — on
“ Psychography,” or “ direct writing,” summarising the many test
j seances given by Dr.. Slade, and other mediums, and drawing con-
| elusions therefrom. It will be published next month. Rifts in the
Veil ” will be published tc-morrow or on Monday.
I A Fastino Girl.—Martha White has died at Market Harborough,
Leicestershire, under very peculiar circumstances. She has been ill
] five years, and is popularly supposed to have taken no food for four years.
She was at first attended by Mr. Francis, surgeon, and latterly by Dr.
I Grant, his successor, and has been kept alive by the injection of
morphia into her system. The case has excited considerable interest
1 among the medical profession. It is stated that 9, post mortem examina¬
tion fully satisfied the doctors who made it that no food had passed the
! stomach for a long time.—The Times.
I Reception at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s.—Last Wednesday
I night Mrs. Makdougall Gregory gave a reception to Spiritualistic and
| other friends at 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London. Among
| those present were Dr. George Wyld; Miss Wyld; Mr. St. George
| Stock, M.A.; Mrs. Ramsay; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.;
I Mrs. Speer; Mrs. Wiseman; the Hon. Mrs. Forbes; Miss Spencer;
| Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald ; the Rev. Cosmo Gordon, D.D.;
| the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.; Mrs. Davies; Miss Showers; Mr.
| Nugent James; Dr. Allman, F.R.S.; Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood,
M.R.I. ; Signor Rondi ; Mr. Algernon Joy, M.Inst.C.E. ; Lady
r Brewster; General Brewster; Mr. Mayne ; Mr. C. E. Williams; Mr.
and Mrs. Fletcher; Mr. Eglinton, and others. Mr. and Miss Dietz
| gave some excellent recitations, and Mr. Tamplyn eome high-class
' music.
12
THE SPIRITUALIST
Jan. 4, 1878.
“ THE DEMONS OF DERRYGONELLY.”
Under the above title Professor W. F. Barrett has written
an interesting article in the December number of The Dublin
University Magazine, in which he narrates how, in the
County Fermanagh, Ireland, phenomena broke out spon¬
taneously like those which once made their appearance in
the Fox family at Hydesville. In the course of the article
Professor Barrett gives the following statement, made by
the farmer:—
“ My poor wife,” he began, “ died in March last, and after
her death we were all very lonesome and sad, and fretted
a good deal. On G-ood Friday night, just three weeks after
her death, after I had gotten to bed, I heard a little wee
rapping at the door forenenst where I lay, and it kept on
rapping till about two o’clock in the morning. I thought
it was our cats, or some rats, and it would go away soon,
but it didn’t. The next night it began again, so I fetched
a light, and got up to see what it was, and it then ceased;
but when I lay down again it began lagain. Then I got
a stick, thinking I would scare it away, so when it began
again I hit the door a crack with the stick, but instead of
scaring it, it struck harder than before at the door, and
when I struck again it struck too. Then when I found I
couldn’t daunt it, just a wee dread came over me, for I
knew then it . couldn’t be rats or mice. So I got up and
searched all the house ; the cats were surely asleep by the
fire, and no one was about. Then I began to take a
thought what it was, but could pass no opinion. Then I
woke the children, but when I went to bed again it kept
on rapping till daylight, when it went away till next night.
After this a great dread came over us all, and we kept a
candle burning all night, but the knocks would still come
when the light was burning, but not so loud. Then we all
laid ourselves down in the same room, and now it wrought
on the quilt of the bed, making sounds like tapping the
quilt, and touching my daughter Maggie, so she says. One
morning we found fifteen or sixteen small stones had been
dropped on her bed. The noises and the tapping continued
nearly every night, and once it wrought all night till
the children were getting up in the m'orning; and so it
went on, and with the dread and the loss of sleep we all
felt very sick. Then it began to steal. We found this first
on May 24th : I know it was that day, because it was Derry-
gonelly Fair. It first took a pair of boots and an odd one
from out of the press in our sitting-room, and we searched
the house for them everywhere, but could not find them;
and we looked in the fields, but never a one of them could
we find. Then one of us said, Let us ask the raps to tell
us. So that night I said, ‘ If the boots are in the house,
give a rap;’ and instead of rapping it gave a scratch; then
I said, ‘ If the boots are out of the house give a rap,’ and it
gave a loud rap. Then I said, ‘ Give a rap if they are in
Garrick’s field,’ and it gave a scratch; then I asked other
places, and at last I said, ‘Are they in the plant field ?’ And
it gave a loud rap; and I said, * What o’clock will they be
there ?’ as I had searched the plant field already. Then it
gave six knocks. So a little before six in the morning I
went out and searched the plant field again, but could find
nothing; then I came in to see the clock, and it do be only
just six; so I went out again, and I found them in the
very place I had looked before. And sure, sir, I am of
this. The three boots were all tied together with a bit of
selvage wound round and round them, and with a string
of knots we couldn’t undo ; so we had to cut them apart,
and they were quite dry, as if from the fire. Then we locked
up all the boots, but it did no good, for another night it
took a boot from a locked drawer, and after a great search
we found it in a chest of feathers in the loft.
“Other things besides boots it stole; some things it took
in daylight, and many of them we have not found yet. It
took a pair of scissors, and then it began to steal our candles.
First it took a pound of candles; then we had to light the
little lamp; it then stole the lamp-chimney, and after that
three more lamp-chimneys, so we couldn’t get our lamp to
burn. Then we borrowed a lamp which burnt without a
chimney, and it stole the bottle of lamp oil. None of these
things could we find, nor would it tell us where they were,
| j but kept on scratching, and seemed to be angry. We got
|>! some more oil, and it came that night and stole the lamp
jjl we had borrowed, and this vexed us badly. Then Jack
||| Flanigan came and lent us his lamp, saying he would
j5| engage the devil himself could not steal it, as he had got
11 the priest to dip it into holy water. But that did no good
jjj either, for a few nights after that it stole that lamp too.
jj| We were then forced to get more candles, and the children
hid them in the byre [the cow-house], in a little hollow
I? I between the thatch and the rafters, so that no one could
j j j have found the candles, they hid them so close ; but it seen
jc j them, and I think, too, it heard us speaking of the good
jj j way we had managed to trick it this time, for when we
ijj went to get a candle from the byre, an hour and a half
j( i after they were hid, they were all gone ; so we were forced
jjj to leave our candles in a neighbours’ house till we wanted
jj j one, but it was very troublesome, for there is no house
jj j very near, and we couldn’t keep a candle at all unless it
jj j do be burning, for it would take the candle-end away if
jj j the light were put out. It tried to keep us in darkness, so
jj j that it should be able to make most disturbance,
jj j “ One day I bethought me of putting a candle in a
jj j lantern, and tying the lantern up to the ceiling. So I
jj j bought a candle of a woman who comes this way to sell
jj j things, and I put the candle in the lantern, shutting the
jj | door tight down myself, and then tied up the lantern, and
jjj set the two young children after watching it like a cat
jjj would a mouse; but they didn’t keep their eyes on it all
jjj the time, but every now and again they looked up. We
jj were down working in the bog, and before night came the
jjl children came running down to us, saying the candle had
jjj gone out of the lantern ; and sure it had, for when I got
jjj home there was no candle in the lantern; it had been
jj j stole out, though the lantern door was close shut all the
jjj time, and no neighbour had come nigh the house. After
jjj that I said it was no use getting more candles, so we had
jjj to use the light of the turf fire. Lately, however, it has
jjj left off stealing, and we can now keep a light, though
j j every day we fear it will be taken.
j | “ Many people came now to see us and hear the knock-
j j ings, for the news of it had gone about, and some said it
jjj was only rats, and others thought it were trickery, and
jjj some said it was fairies, or maybe the devil. Several
j j neighbours wanted us to get the priest, but we are Metho-
jj dists, sir, and believed the Bible would do more good. A
jjj class leader one day told us to lay the Bible on the bed ;
jj so we did in the name of God, but a little after we found
jj j the Bible had been placed on the pillow, and was laid open
jjj at the book of Jeremiah. Then I got a big stone, about
|j 28 lbs. weight, and laid it on the Bible in the window sill,
jj for I was afeard it might take the Bible away; but before
I I long we found the Bible had been moved, and we found
jjj the big stone laid on the pillow and the Bible open on top
m of it. After that it moved the Bible and prayer-book out
jjj of the bed-room, and tore seventeen pages of the Bible
|jj right across, as you see, sir, here.”
j) j The second part of the “ Reading from Shakespeare’s play of Hamlet,
j j j with special reference to the Ghost, by Mr. R. A. Marsh, which was
|j j adjourned from 22nd November last, will take place at the rooms of the
j)j Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 63, Sigdon-road,
jj j Dalston-lane, Hackney-downs, E., on Monday evening, the 7th January,
jjj 1878, at 8 o’clock. Visitors are invited to attend,
j j j The “ Spiritual Magazine.”—We have received the following funeral
jjj post-card—“ We rest during 1878. The why is clearly stated in the
j < j December month’s number of the Spiritual Magazine of phenomena,
jj i physical—ethereal—spiritual. The usual monthly number will be issued
jjj 1st January, 1879,—The Editor.” The earlier volumes of the Spiritual
j j j Magazine are of considerable historical value, and for the first ten years,
j j j or thereabouts, contain records of all that is of value in relation to the
jj progress of Spiritualism in Great Britain. But within the last few
jj j years the magazine has steadily declined in quality, until of late it has
jj j favoured the public with so many absurdities, in the way of announcing
j j j that the sun shines by reflected light, that some of the heavenly bodies
jcj travel in zigzag courses, and so on, that its disappearance is a matter
jj for congratulation. If it had been in the hands of an experienced
j j j journalist its decline in quality and interest would not have taken place,
i j j and we wish that it had retained its early standing.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
E. F.—Your enclosures have already been published elsewhere, and the
previous communication you sent, was only a circular sent to various journals.
Jan. 4, 1878
THE SPIRITUALIST,
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole Isubject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A hook rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,‘.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diaholicaL He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen hy one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 16s. .
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rale, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken hy Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
isving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New: the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and tho Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell>
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them ; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means or clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the m xliumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this hook, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
Is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMSt OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 560 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiratu n-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s'. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by CoraL. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid*
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 o
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . . . 7 6
The Thinker. „ V „ . . . . . 7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual . . • .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence .. . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse ... . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and N erves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . , .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth V. Theology. . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . -.76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s a.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . , , • , 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spimtuaust Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . ... .06
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter *
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . • . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob and Otheb
Obsebvebs in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“ As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-eonceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be ■
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
Sews
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Habbison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Is., post free, or 500for Is, Qd., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age."
rpHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
JL describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s, fid. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 4, 1878.
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE¬
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that •* the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is ■ invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO-
RATIN G B EVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is .the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c;, and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Compa; ativefy unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe- sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will.eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be. considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile," we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may pro ve a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “ nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman ■writes:—
Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In theNursery it is beyond
praise. .
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
j. e. eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
‘‘ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
•the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 80, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Pam—PH ARM ACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX,
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji AI Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali MuStapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—121 Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung. —17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. ‘‘ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning' Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as. The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability... . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published' and reviewed by William H. Harrison (88, Great
Ilussell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success., . . To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured."
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent. .. . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine,
“ How Hadji Al Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photograpliic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good dead of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have' a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and' griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the lngoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Those who wish to obtain a handsome giftTbook of an amusing
nature, will find what they-want in The.Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar,”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and ppems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \_N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Foljeestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw ballads f but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, isoound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C. •
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Pro;essor qf
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size tbe cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also he had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject In Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep. ■
CHAPTER HI : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovisibn—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Tr ansference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S iiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of I’Urenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
enar-Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:— Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly >Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to he Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Dariing’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Wakmg
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Oases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Hoi born,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Are
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
