Registered as a Newspaper.
&N© joU1^]\f$i< f^YCSo^oGS-idS^
^ §tot OTmcf^jb- fojty Spntttaligm m feat jritm 
No. 382. (YoL. XV.—No. 25.) LONDON : FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
JAIES lALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to ■whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8a HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories,- Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE. '
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.,
Will be opened next Monday, when catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of
postage of books. Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST, ~
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by EC. P. BEAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of * The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Just Published. A Catalogue of a curious and interesting
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
ON MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT, PSYCHOLOGY,
And other Kindred Subjects. Posted Free on Application.
POR'TY THOUlSAND OF STANDARD BOOKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION ALWAYS ON SALE.
Libraries and Small Parcels of Books Bought or Exchanged.
CHARLES LOWE, BROAD STREET, BIRMINGHAM.
11
THE SPIRITHALIST.
EC. 19, 1879.
Just arrived from America; A NEW BOOK by
EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
Its Inhabitants, Nature, and Philosophy.
Price 6s. 6d., post free, Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KAKDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (isss). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A» (Oxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edg'es. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The SphrituaUst Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and setting
forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The KEY. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo, pp. 165, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“This is a very ingenious work. . . , His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes,all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR. A. H. FURMAN
(Medium of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
HOME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eigh
o’clock, at his Rooms
26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON
Mr. Firman will be at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 5, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings.
-\TOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
AM NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. W7OODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class Of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
pest free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post freel
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
4, Grenvifle-street, Bruns wick-square.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
of the Fox Sisters, of New York Oity, U,S,
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday,
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to 10, either at house of party or at Mrs
Kane’s rooms, must be made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\_7 DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs, NiohoJs, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 83, British Museum-street, London,
W.O.
J. ixf tbx5 Science attd ^tbiDS Xil Sp;it(itttaU8m»
r No. 382,—Volume fifteen; Number twenty-five*
LOlSTDOlSr, FRIDAY, DFOEMBER 19th, 1879.
“THE SPIEITUAL1ST” Newspaper.
EstablisMed in 18G9. (i
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. 10d. por annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and \
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HABBI&ON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Oapt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. (Disco-
•verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Yon Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
0. F. Varley, Esq:, O.E., F.R.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxoh).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 6, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal,Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig • Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Oorso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiajat
opposite the Villa Nazlonale, Naples; 87, Rue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaad,
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Mohtgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application
rpHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this |
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, j /
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the i)
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas- j \
odon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they I (
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded. ! (
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, j (
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta- i /
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by j)
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review j)
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is np doubt !'
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to j (
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability | (
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability I (
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places ;
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes ! <
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever !
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of j}
Clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers i \
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper ;i
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street,London, W.O,
THE IGNORANT.
Although experience has taught the majority of
Spiritualists in London, if not in the provinces, how
to deal with the ignorant people who before investi¬
gation deny the reality of the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism, now and then friction occurs in the homes of
novices in our ranks, because of their injudicious
attempts to proselytise. We have in our midst, for
investigation, the most remarkable phenomena the
world has ever seen; what a few persons outside
Spiritualism believe or disbelieve about them is of
little importance to anybody but themselves, but it
is of importance that individuals who condemn
before investigating should not be admitted
to spirit circles to destroy their harmony, and
should not be allowed to annoy mediums. Those
who know how to manage spirit circles usually admit
but one or two inquirers at a time, and those
inquirers have always been carefully selected, by the
host or hostess having previously ascertained that
they are deeply anxious to know the truth about
Spiritualism, and earnestly desire to devote some
weeks or months to the investigation, if they can
happily get the chance. The best manifestations
cannot be obtained unless the nervous system
of the medium is in a tranquil state, unless
he is perfectly comfortable and happy; and
he cannot be expected to pass into a state
of trance, or to feel at his ease, if he has been in¬
judiciously brought face to face with some ignorant
outsider who is thirsting for his blood. Novices
should not give way to the weakness of asking
people with great names to their seances, whether
they are fit for admission or not; a man who has
these marvellous phenomena in his own family does
better to quietly investigate them himself than
to call in some authority, say the parish beadle*
and then to listen with all humility to the in¬
vited oracle, instead of trusting to his own brains.
Disbelievers who know all about it before they
investigate should be promptly refused admission to
all seances and told that they are ignorant; further¬
more, they can be furnished with instructions how to
form circles and develop mediums in their own
families. An explanation should be made to them
that it is a great privilege to obtain access to a good
circle, but that after they have given some months to
investigation in their own homes, and proved them¬
selves worthy to be admitted to a good circle, their
claims will be taken into consideration. If they
reply—as they do—that Spiritualists ought to be
anxious to convert them, they should be informed
that they are mistaken; that their bodies have to be
buried in some churchyard a few years hence, so
that it is more their business than that of their
neighbours to gather scientific evidence as to what
290 THE S PIE.
place their souls are going to afterwards. Bad things | (
require forcing on the multitude with much preach- j>
ing; sensible people seek of their own accord for that j (
which is valuable. At a well-managed circle the j)
manifestations are usually produced with power, j(
and converts are made apace from among carefully- j)
selected, gentlemanly, and inteiligent inquirers; the |)
mediums are happy, and the gatherings harmonious If
and pleasurable. One reason why good mediums do j(
not care to travel much either in the provinces or on |)
the Continent is that the Spiritualists in many dis- j(
tricts do not yet understand these conditions, but 1)1
invite all and sundry to their seances, so the mediums Kj
find it an easier life to . confine themselves to their j) j
London connection, and to let new mediums break Kj
new ground.
APPARITIONS RECORDED IN BOSWELL’S “ LIFE j j
OF JOHNSON.” ’ : ; j j
Talking of ghosts, Dr. Johnson said he knew one jil
friend who was an honest man, who had told him he j)j
had seen a ghost; old Mr. Edward Cave, the printer, !U
at St. John's Gate. He said Mr. Cave did not like j/j
to talk of it, and seemed to be in great horror when- j||
ever it wraS mentioned. Boswell said, “Pray, sir, j)j
what did he say was the appearance ?” Johnson.— jyj
“Why, sir, something of a shadowy being. Gold- j/j
smith.told us he was assured by his brother that he jyj
also had seen one. General Oglethorpe told us that in
Pendergast, an officer in the Duke of Marlborough’s j)j
army, had mentioned to many of his friends that he jn
should die on a particular day; that upon that day j>!
a battle took place with the French; that after it j<j
was over, and Pendergast was still alive, his brother j>j
officers, while they were yet in the field, jestingly j(j
asked him where was his prophecy now ? Pender- i > j
gast gravely answered, ‘ I shall die notwithstanding in
what you see.’ Soon afterwards there came a shot jyi
from a French battery, to which the orders for a m
cessation of arms had not reached, and he was killed j>j
upon the spot. Colonel Cecil, who took possession j(j
of his effects, found in his pocket-book the following j j j
solemn entry (here, the date) :—‘ Dreamt or was told j < j
by an apparition Sir John Friend meets me’ (here j/j
the very day on which he was killed was mentioned.) jv|
Pendergast had been connected with Sir John Friend, j / j
who was executed for high treason. General Ogle- j(j
thorpe said he was with Colonel Cecil when Pope j/j
came and inquired into the truth of this story, which j\j
made a great noise at the time, and was then con- j/j
firmed by the colonel.” Boswell.—“Was there not a j(j
story of the ghost of Parson Ford having appeared ? ” j/j
Johnson.—“Sir, it was believed. A waiter at the |)j
Hummums, in which Ford died, had been absent for |/j
some time, and returned, not knowing Ford was j(j
dead; going down to the cellar, according to the j/j
story, he met him; going down again, he met him a If j
second time. When he came up, he asked some of j<j
the people of the house what Ford could be doing j|j
there ? They told him Ford was dead. The waiter jif
took a fever, in which he lay some time ; when he j j j
recovered, he said he had a message to deliver to jjj
some women from Ford, but he was not to tell what jjj
or to whom. He walked out; he was followed, but jjj
somewhere about St. Paul’s they lost him; he came i$f
TUALIST. Dec. 19, 1879.
back, and said he had delivered the message, and the
women exclaimed, ‘ Then we are all undone ! * Dr.
Pellett, who was not a credulous man, inquired into
the truth of this story, and said the evidence was
irresistible. My wife went to the Hummums (it is
a place where people get themselves cupped); I
believe she went with the intention to hear about this
story of Ford. At first they were unwilling to tell
her; but, after they had talked to her, she came
away satisfied that it was true. To be sure the man
had a fever, and this vision may have been the
beginning of it; but if the message to the women, and
their behaviour upon it were true, as related, there
was something supernatural; that rests upon his
word, and there it remains.”
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diame¬
trically opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communica¬
tions cannot be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given
to letters which are not anonymous.']
•—
A DREAM STORY.
Sir,—Having read an article in last week’s Spiritualist on
dreams, the thought occurred to me that there would be no
harm in sending to you an account of a very extraordinary dream
I once had, which dream afterwards turned out unfortunately too
true in its minutest details. And as I, in my present position,
have no motive in disguising names, places, &c., I forward you a
full, true, and particular account of the whole concern, viz:—
In the year 1861, I held the responsible position of drum-
major in H.M. 37th Regiment, then stationed in the G. and H.
Lines, South Camp, Aldershot, belonging to the 1st Brigade,
commanded by Major-General Brook Taylor. The 37th, to
which I belonged, was then commanded by Lieut.-Colonel Grey,
and the adjutant was Lieut. Hawkes; the majors were Young
and Pelly. I was at this time, unfortunately for myself, rather
popular with the regiment, and also the brigade, and was well
known throughout the whole division. I do not mention this
from any egotism, only as a proof of my statement. I had staff
quarters in camp to myself, and on the whole was prosperous,
and had not the least idea of any impending misfortune. About
the latter days of November, 1861, or the beginning of Decem¬
ber, I went to bed at night as usual, and had a dream. I
dreamed that I was tried by a Regimental Court-martial, that I
was proved guilty, that the regiment was formed into square in
front of G. Lines, that I was marched into the square; my
Court-martial was read by the adjutant, and I was sentenced to
be reduced to the rank and pay of a private sentinel: every¬
thing was presented in a life-like and real manner before me,
even to the most minute detail; and what was most remarkable
the commanding officer, Lieut.-Colonel Grey, after my sentence
had been read, addressed the regiment, expressing his sorrow for
what had occurred. Everything appeared so real that when
awaking in the morning I smartly rubbed my eyes, and eagerly
glanced up at the peg where my tunic was hanging to see if the gold
lace were still there or not, everything seeming so real that I was, as
it were, scarce convinced whether it was a dream or a reality.
Of course, after the day I thought no more about it. I was not
a Spiritualist then, therefore took no further interest in the
matter. But on that day week I had the same dream in all its
details, nothing left out. On that day week I had it again, and that
day week was Christmas Day; and on that Christmas Day an uneasy
feeling pervaded me, such as I could not account lor. I may
say the dreams gave me no uneasiness; I laughed at them, but
still I felt as if there was a cloud about me. Colonel Grey visited
the men I had charge of at dinner hour (the musicians), and
wished them and myself a merry Christmas and Happy New Year,
as was customary at that time. Drum-major Hoey, of the 1st
Royals, and the drum-major of the 5th Fusiliers, invited me to
their mess, but somehow I felt wrong. I positively refused to
drink wine. Then our band sergeant’s motner invited me to an
evening party; I went there, but seeing drink knocking about, I
left early in the evening, seeming determined to avoid all temp¬
tation. I' then buckled on my sword and belt, and by myself
took a walk in the town of Aldershot; there I received many
291
Dec. 19, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
an invitation to enjoy myself, but curiously enough refused all.
At the proper hour I returned to camp, and went to bed. I
had been about half an hour in bed, when Corporal Lloyd
knocked at my door complaining that a number of the
men were fighting in the hut. I answered him, “ Well,
you know your duty, go do it; let me sleep.” He went
away. About ten minutes later a drummer named William
Topping came and complained that he could not sleep, as
certain men were fighting. I then rose and dressed myself,
and went into the hut where the fighting was. Immediately one
of the men who was fighting, named Gilooley, whether by acci¬
dent or design, gave me a blow in the ear. I, on the impulse of
the moment, without thought, returned the blow; at that
moment an officer of the 1st Royals passing by, attracted by the
noise, came to the door of the hut at the moment I returned the
blow. He placed me under arrest for striking my inferior in
rank—a private soldier. The consequence was I was tried by a
regimental court-martial, found guilty of gross neglect of duty
in not making prisoners of men for being drunk and fighting, and
for striking a private soldier. The regiment was formed into a
square opposite the G Lines, I was sentenced to be reduced to
the rank and pay of a private sentinel, and Colonel Grey
addressed the regiment, expressing his great sorrow for re¬
ducing me.
So, you perceive, my dreams came true in every detail. At
the time I had not the least idea of ever losing my position, nor
had any one else; and in spite of all the care I took of myself on
that Christmas Day my dream was fulfilled to the letter. Has
destiny anything to do with the above ? You see, I could not
avoid it. It was to happen, and did happen. Perhaps Mr.
Massey may be able to explain the above astrologically P I have
simply given the occurrences as they took place. You can make
any use of the above you like. “ Pacts are stubborn things,”
and one fact is worth a cartload of arguments.
You perceive the outside power that warned me in my dream
could not save me, even though backed by my own exertions. If
man cannot avoid these troubles, how is man responsible ? My
wife and several others can vouch to the correctness of the above,
as I often mentioned them to her and others before I ever became
acquainted with Spiritualism. I have had many as true and
as curious dreams since. J. Cain.
Tower Hamlets Eadical Club and Institute, Mile-end-road, E.,
December 15th, 1879.
PUBLIC SEANCES.
Sir,—I send the following account of the success of Mr.
Purman at the Langham Hall, which is redolent of most un¬
willing conviction. It is from the Court Journal of Dec. 13th :
“At the Langham Hall recently, after a really very excellent
little concert, between the two parts of which a lecture on
Spiritualism was most incongruously inserted, the medium, Mr.
Purman, from Paris, was put in a large wire cage, where he
looked like a corpulent canary. He was locked in, and the keys
given to one of the audience, and the lights extinguished. Soon
after a form in white appeared to soft music. It shook a curious
girdle, which appeared like a ray of light, and which it allowed
the audience to manipulate as it threw it forward for a moment.
There certainly was no trace of phosphorised oil or phosphorus
in any shape, and yet the appearance was quite phosphoric.
Spiritualists of course receive all this in perfect good faith.”
Scrutator.
MEDIUMS IN THE PROVINCES.
Sir,—In The (Spiritualist of December 5th is an article
entitled “A New Departure in Spiritualism.” In the article
you refer to the fact of the great sameness of phenomena occurring
through the different mediums now in London, and that the
supply of this class of phenomena is getting larger than the
demand, and, as a natural consequence, the larger provincial
towns may perhaps receive some of your mediums who have not
an old-established connection in the metropolis.
I have often wondered why some of the good physical mediums
have not set up in some of the large commercial centres, as I
feel confident that in a monetary point of view that step would
pay them better than remaining in London, and would, no doubt,
give the cause of Spiritualism a great impetus.
Take, for instance, Manchester as a centre. Within an hour and
a half’s ride there are the following large manufacturing towns—
Bolton, Preston, Blackburn, Accrington, Burnley, Bury, Hey-
wood, Rochdale, Oldham, Middleton, Ashton, Stalybridge,
iff
I) I
I
Stockport, New Mills, Wigan, and Warrington, besides a great
number of small towns and villages. In these towns there are
hundreds of Spiritualists who would gladly go as far as
Manchester to a materialisation seance, who cannot afford time
and money to go to London purposely to attend a circle. Then,
again, I have no doubt a trustworthy medium would get suffi¬
cient invitations to attend and give private seances in these towns,
provided he kept two or three evenings each week for stances
away from home. If he had, say Monday, Thursday, and
Saturday for giving seances in his own rooms, conducted like
those of Mr. Williams, where he would receive the public either
through the recommendation of some well-known Spiritualist, or
on any other basis he thought proper, and this was announced in
the Spiritualistic papers, I do not for a moment doubt but that
he would be well patronised. I hope that some lady or gentle¬
man medium will take the matter up, and see if they cannot
arrange for a time, at all events, to come and live in Manchester.
R. WoLSTENHOLME.
Blackburn.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS IN VERMONT.
To the Editor of the “Banner of Light!'
I wish to relate something in regard to spirit
manifestations on the evening of the 23rd of this
month, at the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Atwood
(where I am now stopping). Mr. and Mrs. Leland
Frost, of North Shrewsbury, Vt., came to visit us,
and on the following evening we invited a few
friends, also one or two who had never attended a
seance. After addresses by the several mediums
present, and a few spirits described and recognised,
we formed a circle. After a few moments music was
called for, and very soon Mr. Frost went under
control of an Indian, who gave his name as “Red
Cloud.” Soon the chair in which Mr. F. sat began
to keep time with the music; then his feet were
drawn up so that they did not touch the floor. In
this manner he glided around the room several times,
leaving the carpet unruffled by his weight, which is
one hundred and sixty pounds. All the while his
chair kept time with the music. All who were present
expressed themselves entirely satisfied with the
genuineness of the manifestations, and pleased with
the novelty of the same. We think some such
physical'manifestations are quite as convincing to a
class of minds as materialisation.
Zella S. Hastings, Louisa Wilson,
Sadie F. Atwood, Q. M. Dorand,
J. W. Atwood, Elvira Dorand,
L. E. H. Jackson, Orion Wilson.
H. Boynton,
Bartonsville, Vt., Oct. 27th, 1879.
Next week, being Christmas week, nearly all communications
intended for publication in The Spiritualist .should reach the
office on Monday, as the paper will be printed on Tuesday.
Dreaming to Some Purpose—Horace Wedge, of Long
Hill, Bridgeport, went out shooting recently, and returned at
night, after a tramp covering several miles. After his return
home he put his hand in his pocket for his watch, and found it
was missing. He then remembered that at Stepney Dep6t, earlier
in the day, both he and his companion had pulled out their
watches and compared them with the dep6t clock; but this was
worth nothing as an indication for finding the lost property, as
they had tramped a weary round since then. But on the follow¬
ing night he dreamed that he saw his watch lying near a beech
tree, in a run east of Long Hill, where they had killed a couple of
birds, and so vivid was the dream that the following day he
resolved to go and take a look for the watch. He found the
tree he saw in his dream without difficulty, and, lying near it,
just as he pictured in his dream, he found the missing watch safe
and sound.—Bridgeport ( Conn.) Farmer.
Liveepool.—Evidently Spiritualists in Liverpool
have felt the need of some fresh effort, the necessity
for which I indicated recently, for in the same issue
your columns mention a new movement. Mr. Wright
is an intelligent and able worker, and an excellent
advocate of the spiritual philosophy; his removal to
Liverpool is a step in the right direction.
Bury.-'—It was in this town that the Lancashire
Committee had birth, but although it contains a
number of Spiritualists, I cannot hear of any local
society or public services in connection with Spirit¬
ualism.
Burnley.—Many Spiritualists dwell in this town;
notable among them is Dr. Brown, at whose home
many seances have been held, at which some of the
most marvellous manifestations have been witnessed
through the mediumship of Dr. Monck, assisted by
that of the host himself. Public meetings have been
held with great success, the last of any note being
that of Mr. W. J. Colville, who replied with great
ability to Mr. C. Bradlaugh on the question “ Has
Man a Soul ? ” He did this before a large and
attentive audience. Regular circles are held, but no
society exists; local prejudices are so strong that
propagandist work can only he carried on occasionally.
Regular public meetings would have no chance of
success at present.
Blackburn, Preston, Accrington, and Wigan.
—These towns are in much the same position as
Burnley. A few Spiritualists have nobly done their
best to present the new truth and proclaim the fact
of spirit communion; some have struggled against
almost overwhelming odds, nearly single-handed, for
years, but the orthodox creeds, as presented more
especially in the intolerance of the dissenting com¬
munities, have combined to crush them. Mr. Stones,
of Pleasington, has long been a true friend to Spirit¬
ualism, and a great help to struggling mediums. Mr.
Wolstenholme, of Blackburn, and others, have en-
deavoured to sustain the unequal conflict with but jsj
varying and little success. A society was once formed, j) |
and it is hoped that something will be achieved in 1||
this direction this winter. Mr. Foster, of Preston, has m
laboured assiduously for years with pen, voice, and j|j
money, and has the honour of having assisted in ||
developing the mediumship of Mr. T. Walker, who, j|
as a medium, has been round the world, and is now m
on a visit to this country. Mediums are being j(|
developed, and home circles are held regularly in the j)j
Blackburn district; ere long, doubtless, some more y
active steps will be taken to present the new facts |) j
and philosophy to the public. The bad trade of the |\|
last few years has materially affected the propagandist | \ j
work in connection with Spiritualism, and especially Kj
so in this district of Lancashire.
TJlverstone.—A few Spiritualists live in this ||
picturesque town, but they are unable to arouse any |;j
public interest.
Dalton-in-Furness.—This place is a hot-bed of jj|
orthodoxy and ignorance; the people are generally bj
upon a low plane, are intellectually undeveloped, and jlj
submit to be governed by small local popes. As an Hi
illustration, a tradesman in the town was once a local
preacher, but being anxious to become well-informed
he read a great deal, and became a liberal thinker.
Hearing from a local Spiritualist of the facts and
teachings of Spiritualism he determined to investi¬
gate. As soon as this became known he was called
before the authorities of the sect to which he belonged,
and asked to explain ; he did so, Emd contended for
j freedom, asserting his right to think and reason for
| himself, and to investigate the truth of any alleged
| phenomena; he furthermore declared he would not
| preach any longer for a body which sought thus to
| coerce him. The word went forth, he became a
i marked man, his former customers and friends left
| him, and he is compelled to leave the place. Your
| metropolitan readers have no idea of the intolerance
| which small people in the provinces sometimes mani-
| Test towards Spiritualists. Free-thinkers, or even
| pronounced materialists, are far easier to deal with,
j for they admit the right of every man to think and
I act in harmony with his own reason or conscience;
| but the orthodox believers, more especially dis-
I senters, have little or no mercy. Believing them-
| selves to be right, and on the highway to heaven,
i they will not tolerate any such “ doctrine of devils ”
j as the heresy of Spiritualism.
Millom.-—This town, on the borders of Cumber-
i land, was the scene of a public meeting, at which
| Mr. Morse was the speaker, some two years ago. A
I body of the local Methodists, headed by their pastor
I and class leader, attended. The lecturer was not
j permitted to conclude, for before he had proceeded
! many minutes loud cries of dissent were heard, and
|| before long the platform was mounted by two ring¬
leaders, who, Bible in hand, were determined to “ try
the spirits” and discuss the point. However, they
were so severely dealt with and so successfully van¬
quished that their followers became unmanageable,
and a scene worthy of pandemonium was the result.
Hoarse yells, shrieks, groans, and loud-toned threats
resounded through the room; all order and control
were lost; those nearest rushed upon the plat¬
form ; and Mr. Morse was hurriedly taken into an
anteroom away from the infuriated “believers.”-
Mr. Taylor, the local medium, is well known, and has
to a large extent been able to live down the opposi¬
tion and malice directed against him. He is an
excellent trance speaker, and, according to popular
report, a wonderful medium for medical purposes.
“ Doctors ” control him, and psychometrically dia¬
gnose disease. Some remarkable cures have been
effected by them, for which Mr. Taylor has had neither
fee nor reward. Private circles are being held, and
mediums are likely to be brought out. Public meet¬
ings were held here for a longtime, but owing to some
slight hitch are suspended at present.
Oldham.—It was said a few years ago that there
were two thousand Spiritualists in this town, but
such is not the case now, if ever it were true; at any
rate they cannot be found attending the meetings of
the society. There are doubtless several hundreds
in the town who are firmly convinced of Spiritualism,
and who attend private stances, who, from various
causes, do npt identify themselves with the public
meetings. Oldham seems to have been unfortunate
in being unable to unite her forces, and this has been
292
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 19, 1879.
PBOVINCIAL SPIRITUALISM.
Deo. 19, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
largely owing to the indiscreet conduct of mediums,
and the unwise conduct of leaders, whereby they have
alienated from themselves the best friends of the
cause. However, during the last two years some
progress has been made ; the District Committee
lent a helping hand, and a room was secured in
which some excellent meetings have been held, and it
is probable ere long that a larger hall will be engaged.
There are many local mediums, through whom good
tests of identity are given. Writing, clairvoyance,
healing, and speaking, together with rapping and
physical phenomena, are constantly witnessed, and
more than one medium has given the “ fire test.”
Barrow-in-Furness. — This town has a local
society and regular Sunday services, but unfortu¬
nately no medium sufficiently developed to sustain
the interest. One or two promising local sensitives
are being brought out. Mr. Proctor, a blind medium,
of Dalton, and an earnest, energetic worker, ministers
as often as possible. Mr. J.Walmsley, the president, is
an indefatigable worker, and being ably seconded in
his efforts by several others, Spiritualism is taking
root. Public meetings are held when Mr. Morse or
Mr. Wallis happen to be in the district, and more
recently Mr. Walker has held some good meetings.
One or two mediums in the town are gifted with
clairvoyant powers, and another successfully heals by
the laying on of hands. Excelsior.
WITCHES’ OINTMENT.
Jung Stilling mentions that a woman gave in
evidence, on a witch trial, that having visited the so-
called witch, she had found her concocting a potion W
over the fire, of which she had advised her, the j>
visitor, to drink, assuring her that she would then !
accompany her to the Sabbath. The woman said,
lest she should give offence, she had put the vessel to
her lip's, but had not drank of it; the witch, how¬
ever, swallowed the whole, and immediately after¬
wards sunk down upon the earth in a profound sleep,
where she had left her. When she went to see her
on the following day, she declared she had been to
the Brocken.
Paolo Minucci relates that a woman accused of
sorcery, being brought before a certain magistrate at
Florence, she not only confessed her guilt, but she
declared that, provided they would let her return home
and anoint herself, she would attend the Sabbath that
very night. The magistrate, a man more enlightened
than the generality of his contemporaries, consented.
The woman went home, used her unguent, and fell
immediately into a profound sleep; whereupon they
tied her to the bed, and tested the reality of the sleep
by burns, blows, and pricking her with sharp instru¬
ments. When she awoke on the following day, she
related that she had attended the Sabbath. I could
quote several similar facts; and Gassendi actually
endeavoured to undeceive some peasants who believed
themselves witches, by composing an ointment that
produced the same effects as their own magical
applications.
In the year 1545, Andrd Laguna, physician to Pope j)
Julius III., anointed a patient of his, who was suffering j S
from frenzy and sleeplessness, with an unguent found )
in the house of a sorcerer who had been arrested. The K
298
\\ patient slept for thirty-six hours consecutively, and
>j when with much difficulty she was awakened, she com-
\ | plained that they had torn her from the most ravishing
>| delights; delights which seem to have rivalled the
|j heaven of the Mahometan. According to Llorente,
) | the women who were dedicated to the service of the
| Mother of the Gods, heard continually the sounds of
d flutes and tambourines, beheld the joyous dances of
II the fauns and satyrs, and tasted of intoxicating
) | pleasures, doubtless from a similar cause.
It is difficult to imagine that all the unfortunate
)l wretches who suffered death at the stake in the middle
( ages, for having attended the unholy assemblies they
)j described, had no faith in their own stories; yet, in
( j spite of the unwearied vigilance of public authorities,
)j and private malignity, no such assemblage was ever
(j detected. How, then, are we to account for the
1|| pertinacity of their confessions, but by supposing
I them the victims of some extraordinary delusion ?
| In a paper addressed to the Inquisition, by Llorente,
| he does not scruple to assert that the crimes imputed
! to, and confessed by, witches, have most frequently
I no existence but in their dreams ; and that their
dreams are produced by the drugs with which they
| anointed themselves,—Catherine Crowe's Night Side
/! of Nature,
EVIL OMENS CONNECTED WITH THE STUART
STANDARD.
From “ Notes and Queries," Dec, 13£A, 1879.
In a pamphlet dating from the beginning of the
present century, and dealing with many different
topics, I find the following :—
Among George Ballard’s MSS. in the Bodelyan {sic) Library,
at Oxford, there is an original letter from Dr. George Hickes to
Dr. Charlett, dated Jan. 23, 1710-11, from which the following
passage was transcribed:—“ 1 can defer sending my humble
thanks no longer for your kind New Year’s gift, the stately
almanack and the Orationes ex Portis Latinis, where, after
(\ looking upon the title-page, I happened to dip in p. 16, where I
) i cast my eye on the Sortes Virguiance of Charles I. This gave
) j me some melancholy reflections for an hour or two, and made me
) | call to my mind the omens that happened at the coronation of
G his son James II., which I saw, viz., the tottering of his crown
\ | upon his head, the broken canopy over it, and the rent flag
) j hanging upon the White Tower over against my door when I
)i came home from the coronation. It was torn by the wind at the
same time the signal was given to the Tower that he was
<| crowned. I put no great stress upon omens, but I cannot
\ \ despise them. . . . Most of them, I believe, come by chance,
) | but some from superior intellectual agents, especially those which
(i regard the fate of nations.”
Two other incidents I would briefly submit to your
sj readers of omens evil for the standard of the Stuarts,
/| which, when taken in connection with the above
\| simple narrative, would almost seem to bear out the
) opinion of honest George Hickes,* that when the fate
\! of a dynasty is in question, certain signs may appear
)| that may not be despised.
On the 25th of August, 1642, in the evening of a very stormy
;i day, the king (Charles I.) set up his royal standard on the Castle
/ j Hill at Nottingham. It was soon blown down by the violence
(| of the wind, and could not be raised again for some days. This
\ I trifling circumstance added to the gloom and sadness felt at that
* Probably Dr. George Hickes, Dean of Worcester and Chaplain in Ordinary
to His Majesty, who, in a sermon preached in St. Bridget's Church, on Easter
Tuesday, 1684, before Sir Henry Tulse, Lord Mayor of London, advocated
“ colleges for the education of young women, much like unto those in the
Universities for the education of young men, but with some alteration in the
discipline and economy, as the nature of such an institution would require.”—
A very prophet this Dr. Hickes!
294
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 19, 1879.
moment by all the king’s friends.—Markham’s History of
England.
This happened little more than a month before
the unfortunate battle of Edgehill, fought on October
3, 1642.
Again, at the very opening of the rebellion of ’15
occurred this curious circumstance :—
The Earl of Mar erected the Chevalier’s standard there
[Castleton of Brae-Mar] on the 6th of September, 1715, and
proclaimed him King of Scotland, England, Erance, and Ireland,
&c. ... It is reported that when this standard was first erected
the ornamental ball on the top fell off, which depressed the spirits
of the superstitious Highlanders, who deemed it ominous of
misfortune in the cause for which they were then appearing.^
This latter occurrence, the fall of the “ golden knop,”
is (as I pointed out in a former note, 5th S; vii. 22)
referred to in the third verse of the old Jacobite song,
“ Up and waur them a’, Willie.” A remarkable fact
connected with these cases is that while they jointly
coincide with each other in the indication of a general
decline of the house of Stuart, they severally coincide
with some individual instance of misfortune about to
fall upon that ill-fated race, as noticed at the different
periods in question; thus affording a measure of
support to the opinion of George Hickes, and those
who may agree with him, in a ratio increasing, almost
as arithmetical progression, with every additional
instance of coincidence.
Alex. Fekgusson, Lieut.-Col.
United Service Club, Edinburgh.
NEW MANIFESTATIONS.
Symptoms of the development of new manifesta¬
tions in advance of the ordinary phenomena through
old-established mediums are apparent.
In connection with the mediumship of Mrs. Hollis
Billing and Mrs. Louie Lowe, in addition to the strong
voices of the spirits who ordinarily produce powerful
physical manifestations and move solid heavy objects,
whispering voices are heard, which show some know¬
ledge of the private affairs of individual sitters, and
claim to come from the relatives of particular
listeners.
Last Wednesday, at a stance with Mrs. Hollis
Billing, at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 21, Green-
street, Grosvenor-square, London, Sir William Dunbar
was present for the first time with this medium, and
a spirit who by voice claimed to be his “little sister
Ellen,” uttered messages of a private nature about
his daughter “ Eleanor,” and said that his departed
mother “ Elizabeth,” as well as his son “ Willie,” were
present. All these names were accurate, without the
slightest trace of leading questions having been put,
and no other names were given at random. The
messages were short and meagre, but one of them
showed distinct knowledge of recent private occur¬
rences.
The witnesses present were Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, Miss Douglas, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood
(one of the Middlesex magistrates), Mrs. Duncan,
Mrs. Wiseman, Miss Mattie Houghton, Mr. Annesley
Mayne, Sir William Dunbar, and Mr. Harrison.
Last Saturday, at the semi-public seance of Mr. C.
E. Williams, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, London,
Messrs. Rita, Haxby, Hudson, and other mediums
* Vide Summary of Events of 1715, by Geo. Charles of Alloa, quoted in
Hogg’s Jac. Eel. second series, p. 257.
|| were present, as well as two or three casual visitors.
)| In addition to the strong voices common through the
\j mediumship of Mr. Williams, a weak one came in
I the dark, and for a time (carefully guessed at as
sj being not less than three minutes) held a sustained
)| conversation in Dutch with Mr. Christian Reimers.
U This language is one which none of the mediums
)l present are believed to know by their intimate
(| friends. And Mr. Reimers’ questions did not need
)j merely “Yes ” or “No ” answers, but detailed replies,
(| and specific acquaintance with the language. For
! instance, Mr. Reimers asked the spirit, Van Buren,
\| whether he continued to pray, and the reply was
(| promptly given, “Us nutzt midi garnichts!' Mr.
|| Reimers informs us that Mr. Yan Roseveldt, the
Dutch Consul from New Guinea, some weeks ago
II held a sustained conversation in his native tongue
f| with this spirit.
Another spirit said that he intended to bring some-
thing into the room. Mr. Harrison then requested
\ | that a light should be struck, and the room examined,
| that a general idea might be gained as to what
^ | articles were or were not in the room immediately before
)| the manifestation took place. Mr. Williams seconded
y) this proposition, and a light was struck. There was
)j nothing in the room but the table, and the chairs on
|| which the sitters were placed, except two little boxes
(I and small cupboards, which were then ransacked.
)j The folding doors of the room were also opened for an
instant, showing that a bright fire was flickering in
)j the next room. The doors were then closed, and
||I directly the light was blown out the umbrella (from
)| the outer room) of one of the sitters was rubbed on
(j his head, and laid on the table, by the industrious
)j spirit “ Peter.” '
The strong-voiced spirit, James Nolan, who accom-
u panies Mrs. Billing, rarely speaks now; but the
(j low whispering voices, able to give approximate
>j evidence of identity, are in the ascendant. In like
(| manner John King, with his powerful voice, speaks
)j through the mediumship of Mr. Williams much less
(j than he once did, and it may be that spirits like Van
)j Buren, who can exhibit knowledge not possessed by
(i the medium, are beginning to develop their powers,
)j but are able to speak only in low tones.
John King tried to light up his own features and
>j those of Mr. Williams at the same time, but at this
(j first attempt at a public circle succeeded in showing
> only the features of his medium, and the general
<1 outline of his own form.
Ij! The annual subscription for the supply of The Spiritualist
1|] by post during 1880 is now due. The charge is 10s. lOd.
I /1 within the limits of Great Britain and the British and Foreign
iff Postal Union. Some subscribers are in the habit of sending us
!(! post-office orders, unaccompanied by letters of advice, from
111 India, Germany, and the United States. From this carelessness
| > I we have no means of ascertaining from whom they come, and
i (j cannot get them cashed or send receipts.
i)! Benjamin Franklin’s Beligion.—Benjamin Franklin, in his
|) i letter to Whitefield, said:—“ I am now in my eighty-fifth year,
| {i and very infirm. Here is my creed: I believe in one God, the
|o Creator of the universe. That He governs by His providence.
: (j That He ought to be worshipped. That the most acceptable
:>j service we can render Him is by doing good to His other
j') | children. That the soul of man is immortal, and will be treated
j( i with justice in another life respecting its conduct in this. These
i\ | I take to be the fundamental points in all sound religion.”
295
Dec. 19, 1879. THE SPIRIr
MARRIAGE OF MR. N. F. DAW.
The town of Harrogate is not a lively place in j<j
the winter season of the year, yet a little life was put j) j
into the upper part of it on Thursday, the 11th inst., in
by the marriage of Mr. IN’. F. Daw at Christ Church, | j |
situated on what is termed the “ Stray.”
Mr. Daw was married to Hannah, daughter of the j)|
late Mr. Joseph Jowitt, of Thornton-grove, Bishop’s K'j
Thornton, Bipon, member of a well-known family of j)j
Yorkshire Friends, who mustered in great force at the i (j
wedding. Among the guests was Mr. Gerald Massey >!
—Miss Massey being one of Miss Jowitt’s brides- m
maids.
Mr. Fabyan Daw is rather a belated arrival in the K i
matrimonial fold; but those who saw the bride appear j > I
to have thought the “Fabian policy” quite sue- i(i
cessful at last. The wedding ceremony was very j)j
pleasing to behold ; picturesque and impressive. j(j
The wedding breakfast, with its refined feast of all j)j
good things, its floral decorations and warm company j\|
of welcoming friends, was most enjoyable ; the wed- j)j
ing presents were numerous, valuable, and chosen j\j
with artistic taste.
The newly-wedded pair left for London, or, rather, j(j
near it, on their way to the south of France.
Many personal friends of Mr. Daw are readers of K j
our paper, and we are sure that one and all of them |>j
will wish him and his bride complete health and m
perfect happiness.
“ PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN.”
In a short preface to the December number of j(j
Psychische Studien (Leipzig), which closes its sixth f)j
year, this valuable and ably-conducted periodical JI|
announces its continuance. It is in a condition to do |)|
so, it tells its readers, “partly owing to continued Jjj
material support, partly through the substantial )|
advance and impetus which Spiritualism in Germany (I
has received from the distinguished contributions and j > j
publications of Professor Zollner and other highly- u
regarded men of science and philosophers.”
Psychische Studien for November and December j (j
contains several articles of high speculative interest j)i
and distinguished authorship, Professor Hoffman and j v j
Gustav Fechner being among the contributors. There i) I
is also given the headings of the contents of Pro- jyj
fessor Zollner’s newly-published volume, which is of )j
the deepest interest to Spiritualists.
The same number contains a letter, of which the m
following is a translation:—
INVITATION TO ENGLISH MEDIUMS.
Just before going to press we have received the followingnote- |) i
worthy letter from a writer in a prominent city of Germany :— |) i
Sm,—The latest writings of Professor Zollner upon trans- |(|
cendental physics and physiology have excited in social circles j) j
here a strong desire to witness mediumistic.phenomena, and lam j.)j
constantly questioned on the subject. Now since Eglinton is not |) j
coming before the spring, I beg you to let me know whether it j(|
is not possible to procure some medium from England at an m
earlier date. ■ : • . j)i
Would you kindly refer me to a source of information in Eng- j) |
land, or negotiate the business yourself ?
Hoping for an early reply, yours, with much respect,
“N. N.” | |
4th Dec., 1879. ■.!);
The editor of Psychic Studies adds:—
“We believe we cannot more quickly or more sue-
cessfully comply with the wish of our highly-esteemed ' :
UALIST.
correspondent for the recognition of the facts of
Spiritualism in his neighbourhood than by making
his invitation generally known through our journal,
so that any English, medium, who may be disposed to
accept it at once, may put himself in direct commu¬
nication with us, either by letter or telegraph. We
request our respected contemporaries, the English
Spiritualist papers, to insert the above invitation in
their next weekly issues, and shall be always ready
ourselves to extend to them a corresponding courtesy.
—Office of Psychische Studien.
SPIRITUAL ACTION FROM A DISTANCE.
THE CLAIRAUDIENCE OF MBS. E. F. BURTON.
I COPY from Mrs. Richard Burton’s charming book,
The Inner Life of Syria, two instances of her own
clairaudience and second sight, or something more.
The first occurred when that highly-talented and
noble-hearted man, Captain Burton, her husband,
was in a difficulty, and they were separated by a
distance of some sixty miles. Mr. Burton tells us:—
“I went to bed as usual, and tried to be philo¬
sophical. When I went to bed I had one of my
dreams. I thought some one pulled me, and I
awoke, sat up in bed, and I could still see it and feel
it; and it said in a loud whisper, ‘Why do you lie
there ? Your husband wants you; get up, and go to
him I ’ I tried to lie down again, but it happened
three successive times, and big drops were on my
forehead with a sort of fear. My maid, who slept in
the room, said, i Are you walking about and talking,
madam?’ ‘No!’ I said, ‘but somebody is. Are
you?’ ‘No,’ she replied, ‘I have not stirred; but
you are talking with somebody.’
“ After the third time I grew to believe that the
presence was real. I jumped up, saddled my horse,
and, though everybody said I was mad, and wanted
to put me to bed, I rode a journey of five hours
across country, as if I were riding for a doctor, over
rocks and through swamps, making for the diligence
half-way house. . . . The diligence was just about to
start; but God was good to me. Just as the coach¬
man was about to raise his whip, he turned his head
and saw me coming, hot, torn, and covered with
mud and dust from head to foot; but he knew me.
I held up both my arms, as they do to stop a train;
he saw the signal, waited, and took me in; and told
the ostler to lead my dead-beat horse to the stables.
“ I reached Beyrout twenty-four hours before the
steamer sailed.” Mrs. Burton had therefore that
time to confer with her husband on important
matters before he preceded her to England. Cap¬
tain Burton had left Damascus at a moment’s
warning.
Mrs. Burton, while her husband was Consul at
Damascus, spent much time in attending on sick
people from charitable motives, under the directions
of a French physician, and, with her own diversified
knowledge in the healing art, she seems to have done
much good by that, as well as by other charitable
acts in the suburb in which they lived, about a mile
from Damascus. When at their country house, in
the mountains, during the summer, Mrs. Burton
there also followed out her usual benevolent system
«Psychische Studien is published at Leipsic (Leipzig) by Oswald Mutze,
Lindenstrasse, 2.—Ed. Spiritualist.
208
THE SPIRI
of healing and other charities to her surrounding
neighbours.
On one occasion an Arab boy, who was sick, had
been brought’ from some distance on his grand¬
mother’s back to be treated by “ the kind lady.” Mrs.
Burton, as usual, received them at her house and
undertook the charge, but the boy was restless and
ill-tempered, and would not take his medicine, and
soon insisted upon returning to his tent and tribe;
to which his grandmother and carrier complied. It
was some time afterwards that Mrs. Burton writes :—
“ I had another dream; some one pulled me and
awoke me and said, ‘ Go and look after that Bedawi
boy, whose grandmother took him away when you
were treating him for rheumatic fever.’ I was tired
and miserable (Mrs. Burton was then suffering from
a serious mental trouble), and tried to sleep. I was
pulled again. ‘He went away at his own earnest
request,’ I answered, ‘and he must be dead or well
by this time.’ A third time I was pulled by my
wrist: ‘ Go ! go ! go ! ’ said the voice. ‘ I will go,’ I
answered. At dawn I ordered the horses and rode
out in the direction that I knew his tribe was en¬
camped. After three hours I saw some black tents
in the horizon, but before I got near them, I met the
old crone with her burden on her back, covered over
with sacking. ‘ Where are you going to, my mother ? ’
I asked. ‘ Is that the boy ? ’ ‘ Yes/ she said ; ‘ he
is very bad and wants to be taken back to you, and I
had just set out and thought I should reach you by
to-morrow.’ I got down from my horse and tied him
to a rock, and assisted her to lay the boy on the
sand. I saw death was fast approaching. I sat
down by him. ‘ Are you very angry with me ? ’ I
said to him. ‘ Oh no, lady ! I was a very foolish,
naughty boy; I thought I could get well without the
medicine. If I had not left you, I should have been
well now.’ He looked so wistfully at me with his
big black eyes. ‘Is it too late ?’ he whispered.
‘ Yes! my boy, it is/ I said, taking hold of his cold
hand. ‘ Would you like to see Allah ? ’ ‘ Yes,’ he
said, ‘ I should. Can I ? ’ ‘ Are you very sorry for
all the times you have been naughty and said bad
words ?’ Yes,’ he said. ‘ If I get well, I will do better,
and be kinder to grandmother.’ I thought that
was enough. I parted his thick matted hair, and,
kneeling, I baptised him from the flask of water I
always carried at my side. ‘ What is that ? ’ asked
the old woman, after we had been silent for some
moments. ‘ It is a blessing,’ I answered, ‘ and may
do him good.’ I walked back to camp with them,
leading my horse; and as he could not bear to lose
sight of me, and followed me with his eyes, I remained
until he seemed insensible. I did not see him die,
for night was coming on.”
The motive agency of these two very interesting
psychological experiences can, I think, be explained
in much the same way. In both cases there was,
doubtless, strong desire of those absent to communi¬
cate with Mrs. Burton ; and doubtless there were, in
both cases, forces willing, as far as lay in their power,
to give assistance. Captain Burton, although about
to leave Damascus for good at a moment’s warning,
hearing that his consulate at that city was changed
to a vice-consulate, had not had time to see his wife
for one moment after receiving this unexpected
T UAL I ST. Deo. 19, L879.
intelligence, which necessitated his going to England
at once. He received the news at his office in
Damascus, and immediately started for Beyrout en
route for England, sending a note to his residence, a
mile out of Damascus, to Mrs. Burton, with these
few but meaning words: “Don’t be frightened. I
am recalled. Bay, pack, and follow at convenience.”
And now he found himself at Beyrout with time to
spare, as no packet was leaving for a day or two ; and
how glad he would naturally be to confer verbally
with Mrs. Burton upon so important an event, brought
about by machinations that just and noble men, men
most fitted for high positions, are, perhaps, often the
most subject to. Mrs. Burton tells us of their pro¬
pitious meeting, the consequence of her “ dream.”
As regards the dying Bedawi boy, we know, in his
case, how intense was his desire to be cured ; and as
regards the poor old grandmother, there was great
anxiety also, with a knowledge, moreover, of the
weariness of her burden to be borne so long a dis¬
tance. Earnestness of desire is, of itself, an invo¬
cation ; and, in the case of receptive persons, spirits
in fluidic life on either side are willing, sometimes,
to give their aid, for distance from each other
is no impediment to them; though, in this case,
it was the grand impediment to the spirits in the
flesh. The Bedawi guardian spirits of the old
woman and the sick boy might, therefore, natu¬
rally think that horses would forward the intended
meeting more expeditiously than those willing but
aged limbs, which they were desirous to spare; and
so, it appears, by means of responsive spirits on the
other side, the meeting was brought about in the
touching manner described by Mrs. Burton.
It would, I think, be difficult for any one to show
that spirit communion did not, in the above instances,
prove a true source of usefulness.
Scrutator.
A SPIRITUALISTIC STUDY OF CHRISTMAS.
BY J. T, MARKLEY.
In the face of a special flood of literature and art,
illustrative of the most popular of all the yearly
“ seasons,” the question may be fairly asked whether
merry Christmas will survive the prosaic and utili¬
tarian tendencies of modern thought? Will the
interest in yuletide become eventually a mere anti¬
quarian fact, or an “inspiration” to abide per¬
manently ? To answer this question it is needful
that we summon to our critical view those originating
causes which help to make Christmas one huge, con¬
tagious European feast. The most ultra-Protestant
must confess that the great birthday celebration owes
much of its transmitted charm to the poetic tradi¬
tions of the old historic Latin Church. Considered
as a venerable abstraction, yuletide is essentially a
religious memory. The “ pale Galilean ”—as Swin¬
burne calls Christ—was the first inspiring cause of an
event which has hitherto entranced the nations where
civilisation boasts of a Biblical faith. Even harsh
infidels enjoy the festive side of the great feast of
the Church; nor can the followers of Confucius,
Mahomet, and the profound religions of ancient India
be careless of a birthday ceremonial* in which
educated millions yearly rejoice! What a thrill—
Dec. 19, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
297
what a universally circulated sensation of hope and K
pleasure—this hallowed season brings to all ranks of |)
society ! It would take many brilliant Yoltaires to | \
sneer out of popular favour even the churchal side of j/
Christmas. Men may affect to deride the moral and i\
the historic inspirations of this happy and suggestive j)
season; but the feelings of most people are prompt j \
and instinctive amid the sway of honourable devotion 1)
in cases and upon occasions when and where the K
argument is not overwhelming. Hence the wide j)
sentiment of romance and reverence. We may live !\
in intellectual and cold secularist isolation ; cultivate
individual arrogance, and defy the gods; yet soon |\
find ourselves, as did Longfellow in olden Bruges, \j
haunted by the beliefs of history, and confess :
Before I was aware,
Lo! the shadow of the belfry crossed—
The suu-illumined square.
Still, after all, the idea which inspires and perpetuates | /
Christmas may be as selfish as it is devotional—even 11
in purely Roman Catholic countries. The faithful j)
who rejoice and sing a new song at yuletide in the js
Arcadian solitudes of the Bavarian Alps, or the j)
grandees who move to music and dance with frenzied | \
gesture in the festive salons of Madrid, may be as K
full of joviality as they are of ceremonial remem- n
brance. This fact gives Christmas a dual aspect; K
and interblends the free bias of enjoyment with a jj
pious reverence for artistic ritual of more than every- j <
day pretension. Thus, on the solemn borderland of j)
the Sacraments, we realise the glamour of a pardon- !<
able gaiety, and Christmas becomes less a traditionary ;
fact than the transfiguration of abstract Christianity jl
into sweet fluency of humour and golden deeds ! n
He must be a cynic indeed who would destroy the K
cause and the consequences of such an occasion.
Will Christmas outlive and subjugate modern ma- j(
terialistic thought ? The age is fearfully restless and j>
impatient of old faiths and dates. Science—in j
high places—affects to despise the religious land- I)
marks, and the knowledge of our grandfathers looks j(
small by contrast. Men of genius—in art and |{
literature—chafe, in many cases, uncomfortably |(
against that constructive creed upon which the |)
interior philosophy of yuletide is chiefly based, j <
Therefore it is a question whether Christmas may \\
not, more than ever, base its claims to popular n
patronage as much upon its social as upon its j
purely religious representation. In fact, this ten- H
dency to secularise the event has grown with the ||
growth of a severe Protestantism—in England at j<
least—since the austere days of Oliver Cromwell. !<
Since .the famous tractarian movement began at j<
Oxford, the pictorial and imaginative instincts of L
extreme high churchism seems to have partly revived b
the religious symbolism of Christmas, but its me- |,
diseval romance has departed for ever. With increase j1
of popular education we have, as a rule, a freely |(
expressed contempt for moral mysteries ; albeit that ;
a clear enunciation of simple religious truth is not j,
without respectful recognition. But Protestantism j1
is essentially abstract, argumentative, and deficient !
in picturesque symbols. The primal elements of art, I1
music, and poetry add not a little to the sensuous j,
sway of Christmas, so that in proportion as cool !'
reason takes the place of emotional faith in matters
religious, the typical aspects of Christ’s birthday
must, perforce, lose ceremonial weight and impor¬
tance. Still Protestants cannot afford to withhold a
certain amount of imaginative warmth and the moral
glow of reverential sentiment from the occasion
which inspires cheerless December with a stronger, if
briefer, excitement than the musical merriment of
imperial May.
Socially, the attractiveness of Christmas will be
everlasting. Enjoyment is focussed, and human
sympathy finds reciprocal answers at such a time.
What a grand thing Christianity would be if its
yuletide expression lost its special and became a
general season of good deeds ! Why should the genial
impulses of men exhaust themselves with the last
few days of the old year? People feel as if they
could not allow the Union inmates, the wandering
tramps, or even the robins in the hedgerows, to feel
the pangs of hunger on Christmas Day! Now, Christ
was inspired with such splendid conceptions of love
and charity all the year round. What an example !
As this is not a sermon we need not linger to
moralise, but may observe that literature plays
almost as important a part as religion in inspiring
the associations and recalling the traditions of Christ¬
mas. The Catholic Fathers contributed' not a little
to the historic and contemporary literary interest of
the great December Feast of the Church. But it was
left to Charles Dickens to inaugurate a new depar¬
ture for lay genius in fictional conception as regards
Christmastide. Poor “ Boz !” what a grand Christian
he seemed to beand many a Tiny Tim may thank
the gifted man of Gad’s Hill for being the indirect
cause of hot free dinners! Happily, the mantle of
Dickens has fallen upon later genius of equally gene¬
rous intent. The idealistic effort ofvart steps in, and
removes the raison d’etre of yuletide from reeking
plum puddings to the more fanciful regions of facetice
and intellectual pleasantry. To forestall and pro¬
fusely illustrate our Christmas joy and adventures
would seem to be intensely artificial if the actual
experience of society did not more than half redeem
the full extent of the prophecy. Art is only false in
the matter of snow. Like coaches, snow is now out
of fashion, or it would surely come in the appointed
season. If literary genius and the cegis of art make
Christmastide pictorial and conspicuous, the writers
and limners are certainly indebted to the exceptional
circumstances of the season for the imaginative sug¬
gestions. This fact alone proves that the inspiration
is not wrought out from artificial sentiment or side-
issues foreign to real experience. Christmastide will
always be a tempting theme for pen and pencil,
simply because our actions at this time of the year,
more than at any other period, are based upon two
leading principles—the infinite charm of religious
tradition and the partial realisation of a coveted
social condition. This explains the popularity
of the great Church Festival and the equally
great social holiday. Seeing that most of the
London Christmas annuals and the artistic issues
are full to the front before the commencement of
the cheering Advent bells, we can only infer that
idealistic genius is influenced by a certain measure
of intuitional respect for history and the Christian
religion. Indeed, we cannot conveniently separate
298
THE SPIRI
the sentiment of reverence from the practical out- jj
come of yuletide. There is also such a unison of j
design and appeal in literature and art during the HI
last month in the year. This voice of diversified j>j
approval is as persistent as it is effective. As Hip- m
polita said, after he had been with Hercules and n
Cadmus baying the boar with the hounds of Sparta | i
in the woods at Crete—
“For, besides the groves,
The skies, the fountains, every region near I > \
Seem’d all one mutual cry; ” | n
And after hearing the mellow bells from divers f
towers overleap and encourage such a swell of j\j
Christmas emotion, we might further say with j j I
Theseus— j j
“ A cry more timable
Was never halloo’d to, nor cheered with horn, i)|
In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly: j(j
Judge when ye hear! ” - ' j/l
This harmony of opinion and of feeling, in regard to If j
a great yearly celebration, may be taken as some j>!
proof of the wide and evergreen interest in the event, i |
The culture, the wit, and the highest aspirations of j) j
European society surround and assist the famous u)
holiday passion; and the intermixture of honourable |p
gaiety with story gives Christmastide a welcome fy
pleasantry not to be found on other dates, or con- j)j
nected with other seasons of rejoicing. So that the \\\
ever-occurring variety, in pastime and domestic !(j
recognition, becomes assured for all time; and with \(\
the burning of the yule-log, and the playful associa- j/j
tions of the mistletoe bough, merry-making is really !\j
an impulse of the national heart.
In its recreative striving for the mastery, as an K|
imperial occasion, Christmas need not fear the j/j
august rivalry of the annual periods. The New Year \{\
—or rather its apologetic opening—is more a local j / j
than a European festival. Its glamour of commence- j | j
merit chiefly inspires Scotland, and makes the |ff
whisky flask tremble ! To an Englishman the 1st of j)l
January, as a rule, is simply a season of ennui, con- j (j
sequent upon the hearty Christmas rejoicings. If, !){
perchance, it should favourably affect us, as an after- j j
glow, it comes upon us without premeditation or j j j
rehearsal, and is as a wild, stray note of wandering j (j
music, intruding itself on the reflective silence ! So j>}
its claims are inferior as a movable feast, and its in
fame is transient. Eastertide almost presumes to i?j
rank as a second Christmas. Nor is it without in
social attractions and ecclesiastical status. As for m
Whitsuntide, it almost burns itself into beauty and j(j
recognition by the flowery flame of its roses ; and the - j/j
humours of men are reasoned to fluent kindliness by Kj
genial skies and the breathing sweetness of goldened j/j
meadow-lands! Yet old King Christmas need not j)j
fear this republic of more impassioned and ornate j/j
feast-days. Yule-tide—like the noble English Con- j(j
stitution—sways freely and firmly the patrons of its j)j
monarchy by the representative flexibility of its open j\ j
atmosphere. Hence its stability, its majestic dignity, j/ j
and its coresponsive popular voice.
What a contrast, in methods, devices, locomotion, j/j
and in amusements, there is between the past and the jlj
present yule-tide ! Its celebration may be inspired by j/j
the same original motives, but the accidents and inci- j(j
dents of the occasion are powerfully dissimilar. Our jli
customs are now cosmopolitan. The earlier rural ele- !/'
T UAL 1ST. Dec. 19, 1879.
ment has departed. Town life attracts to itself all
the cardinal sympathies, and all the more effective
developments of individual character and intelligence.
Most of the conceptions, pleasures, and social move¬
ments of isolated country life are imitative, and
slowly second-hand. London, and the ever-spreading
provincial towns and cities, absorb the more striking
examples of personal and collective character. There¬
fore, Christmas is now more of a semi-detached villa
banquet than a scattered feast of village tarts ! We
do not proceed by coach through the snow-drifts over
lonely plains to the proverbially cosy Elizabethan
manor-house. The country cousins mostly eat their
geese in town, and—if they be pious and good-
natured—accompany the native clergy to the Cattle
Show, the Art Galleries, and all the less laughable
of the theatrical pantomines. Church decoration is
not now so much an amateur effort as a rehearsal of
professional skill. Angelina, Ethel, Maud, and the
curates do not mutually work out the holy symbols
as of yore. The ornamentation now is less a
matter of taste and local conception than a mere
essay in convenient fixture. This also helps
to make Christmas somewhat artificial and ma¬
terialistic. But we must not linger to lament the
innovation. The restless spirit of the age calls for
and commands the wonderful artistic, social, and
ideal change. Where are the waits ? the red-nosed
clarionet players of our grandfathers’ days ? They
exist only in anecdote and fire-side story. The warm
winter concerts have satiated the multitude in the
wild realms of music, and street bands are now
tolerated rather than invited. With so many and
varied contrasts in the essential celebration of this
happy season, we may still console ourselves with the
thought that the primal encouragements for rejoicing
still remain. The contrast is only in forms and
methods, and not in original universal interest.
Christmas retains all the finest under-currents of its
everlasting and broadly humane conditions. We
have still its rare exhibitions of practical Christianity,
giving bread in the place of stones, and oblivious of
the harsh boundary-lines of caste, selfish interests,
and rival creeds ; and the cruel philosophy of a cold
negative, which seeks to eliminate the grand moral
impulse which has blessed the world as the result of
traditions so sacred, will only triumph when men
deny their own deep feelings and destiny!
15, Denne-road, Horsham.
CABINET SEANCES.
SEIZING A GHOST.
Cabinet stances, except when held under stringent
test conditions, and preferably for purposes of scien¬
tific research, have long been condemned in England
by those who know most about them, because of the
injury they otherwise do to the medium, to the
observers, and to the movement. Nine out of every
ten of the greater public troubles which have afflicted
Spiritualism in America have originated in cabinet
seances, and if such had been condemned years ago
in that country the movement would have now been
in a much better position there. Good mediums can
obtain excellent materialisation phenomena while
Dec. 19, 1879. THE SPT
they are held hand and foot in an open circle, off
their own premises; so why should a cabinet be called
into use ?
The following paragraph is going the rounds of
the newspapers, and plenty more will follow, in rela¬
tion to persons who tolerate cabinet seances; such
seances drive away from Spiritualism at least ten out
of every eleven sincere inquirers. They are of no
use except to persons who know much about spiritual
manifestations:—
“ At North Adams, Massachusets, recently, a
strikingeajpos^ of pretended spiritualistic mediums was
made. Mrs. Mary Eddy Huntoon, sister of the Eddy
Brothers, and her brother, Webster Eddy, had taken
rooms,and were giving one of their professional seances.
The exhibition was conducted in an ordinary sitting-
room with a bedroom adjoining, and from the bed¬
room a door led to a wardrobe. The bedroom was
utilised as a cabinet, a dark curtain being up over
the doorway, the door of which was pushed back.
Colonel Potter and William Hodgkins examined the
cabinet before the stance, but no one was in when
the manifestations began. An audience of nearly
thirty persons were present, including eight women.
Mrs. Huntoon was bound by Colonel Potter, and
sat alone in the cabinet when the manifestations
took place. The seance lasted about an hour,
and a number of figures appeared, one of them
purporting to be the grandmother of the Rev.
Dr. Osborne, who was present. Mrs. Hun-
toon’s closing materialisation is always that of
an Indian chief, who bounds out with a yell into
the dimly-lighted room, in which nothing can be dis¬
tinguished, save the spirit forms. Mr. Mabbett, a
local editor, has attended several of her stances at
Lake Pleasant, and knew just when the Indian would
appear, so that when he heard the whoop he sprang
from the front seat, and caught the figure when
about three feet from the cabinet curtain. At the
same instant Webster Eddy jumped for Mabbett, and
all three, Eddy, Mabbett, and the spirit, fell to the
floor, Eddy endeavouring to get hold of Mabbett’s
throat, while the spirit scratched his face vigorously.
Rev. Dr. Osborne and Colonel Potter, who had agreed
to assist Mabbett, at once hauled away Eddy; but the
editor did not relax his hold on the spirit, and finally
brought out before the audience the Indian figure.
At this juncture, by a preconcerted arrangement,
Officer Hunter and Deputy-Sheriff Walden, who had
been waiting in the hall-way for three-quarters of an
hour, broke in the door, and when the lights were
turned up, the Indian figure proved to be Mrs.
Huntoon, her skirts and dress cunningly tucked up
about her body, and her white drawers showing
plainly, while she kicked, screamed, and cried to her
associates for a pistol. The scene was one of the
highest excitement and confusion. One woman
rushed up and denounced Mabbett as a shameless
thing, and entreated him to put down the medium’s
dress ; while he, excited by the confusion, called
lustily, ‘ See her legs ! See her drawers ! There’s
the Indian materialisation for you ! ’ After recovery
from her hysterics, in which she prophesied her death
before morning, she, out of sheer bravado, explained
that there was no denying the fact that, inasmuch as
the materialisation emanated from her, it likewise
IITUALIST. 299
(] returned to her, and so, instead of keeping the
>| materialisation, he found her in his arms. A few
{| Spiritualists present swallowed this as truth.”
AN APPARITION.
This interesting story is recorded by Beaumont in
\| his World of Spirits, and quoted by Dr. Hibbert
| with the remark that no reasonable doubt can be
\ I placed on the authenticity of the narrative, as it was
! drawn up by the Bishop of Gloucester from the
(| recital of the young lady’s father:—
1 Sir Charles Lee, by his first lady, had only one
\j daughter, of which she died in childbirth, and when
) | she was dead, her sister, the Lady Everard, desired to
{ \ have the education of the child, and she was very
) | well educated till she was marriageable, and a match
) | was concluded for her with Sir W. Parkins, but was
} | then prevented in an extraordinary manner. Upon
(| a Thursday night, she, thinking she saw a light in her
(I chamber after she was in bed, knocked for her maid,
>| who presently came to her, and she asked, ‘Why
(j she left a candle burning in her room?’ The maid
)\ answered that she had ‘left none, and that there
<| was none but what she had brought with her at that
tj time;’ then she said it must be the fire; but that
< I her maid told her was quite out, adding, she believed
) \ it was only a dream, whereupon Miss Lee answered
II it might be so, and composed herself again to sleep.
)| But about two of the clock she was awakened again,
(| and saw the apparition of a little woman between her
>| curtains and her pillow, who told her she was her
(j mother, that she was happy, and that by twelve of
the clock that day she should be with her. Where-
(\ upon she knocked again for her maid, called for her
)j clothes, and when she was dressed went into her
(i closet, and came not out again till nine, and then
H brought out with her a letter sealed to her father,
! carried it to her aunt, the Lady Everard, told her
) | what had happened, and desired that as soon as she
U was dead it might be sent to him. The lady thought
|| she was suddenly fallen mad, and therefore sent
\| presently away to Chelmsford for a physician and
|) | surgeon, who both came immediately, but the physician
j|J could discern no indication of what the lady imagined,
m or of any indisposition of her body; notwithstanding
!>! the lady would needs have her let blood, which was
j(j done accordingly; and when the young woman had
j). patiently let them do what they would with her, she
|! desired that the chaplain might be called to read
j | prayers; and when prayers were ended, she took
jU her guitar and psalm-book, and sat down upon a
bj chair without arms, and played and sung so melo-
j j diously and admirably that her music-master, who
!) I was then there, admired at it; and near the stroke
|(| of twelve she rose and sat herself down in a great
j) ! chair with arms, and presently fetching a strong
m breathing or two she immediately expired, and was
m so suddenly cold*as was much wondered at by the
H physician and surgeon. She died at Waltham, in
|/| Essex, three miles from Chelmsford, and the letter
III was sent to Sir Charles, at his house in Warwick-
|) | shire; but he was so afflicted at the death of his
| (| daughter that he came not till she was buried; but
|) j when he came, he caused her to be taken up and to
( be buried with her mother at Edmonton, as she
i)) desired in her letter.”
300
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 19, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Ry the. late 'Wm. GREGORY, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep of Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III r—Sympathy — Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage-
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAFTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—■
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—^Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
• - Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes-
merisin, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—^Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce 'Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine. Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
•—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Oases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spifitmlist Newspaper Branch Office 30, British Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Gralileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Soienc:, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers,. conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these Were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
8. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak 5 he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
I to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
I or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
I undeniable proof.
| 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
\ because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
I sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
| Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
I not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice 1
j week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
! stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Dec. 19, 1879.-
Cloth, small 8to, price 3s.
OTHER-WOELD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr, White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting fmnishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners,
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-Street, London, W.O.
mo SPIRITUALISTS and Others.—
JL Partial Board and Besidence offered by two
ladies, with all the advantages of a 'social, cheerful,
and superior Home. Best part of Kensington main
road. ’Bus passes door; one minute from Metropolitan
Station.—Address Mrs. Vernon, Leggatt’s Library,
Newland-terrace, Kensington.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
-OAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN-
JLi; GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
British national assocll
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to siances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
}a Cosponjere, Paris.
THE BANNER OF LIOHT ! the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
ipptructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
■ 15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vd Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of.articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of f; M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“01 Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
Vi.—Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Oloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Wotnen. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“^M.A., Oxon.”
‘ XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Hauntmg Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (OolffiteSs Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
, XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXlL—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Siance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVl.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
XLV,—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street London, W.O
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lbe M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
in
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ?—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Win .
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—^Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter:
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena..
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism ort Morality-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.5’
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PArt I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song o
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting Of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom —XV. Mistress Glehare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song"—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Ahohyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie,
iv-’ s
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFOBE AND AFTER THE
Christmas Ihidding’,
USE
EKO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENG’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Bipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and InvigoratingBeveragefor any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression,Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &e.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FEUIT SALT.—From the
Bev. Dr. HUrst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Sail.for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world."
QTIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
IO AMOUNT of EXEECISE frequently DE-
BANGE the LIVEB. ENO’S FEUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WOBLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FEUIT SaLT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FBUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
'l he Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &£., use
EWS ITJJIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
Fagged, weary, and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FBUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try END’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
■ immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked " ENO’S FRUIT SALT.’’ Without, you have
—been imposed on by a vxrrthless imitation . Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’ S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcbam, London, S.E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
CHRISTMAS APPEAL TO
' SPIRITUALISTS. •
The Committee formed to promote a Testimonial to
Dr. Monck commend his case as one eminently claim¬
ing your generosity at this time of the year, when gifts
and benevolence are peculiarly appropriate.
As one of the pioneers of our beliefs he has ex¬
pended health and all his' resources in devotion to the
Cause. For nearly two years he has been cared for by
kind friends, who have thereby earned the lasting
thanks of Spiritualists ; and to enable Dr. M. to return
to the work still so dear to him, it is necessary to sus¬
tain him for the winter in a warmer climate. If all
unite heartily there will be no difficulty, and the
Master’s benediction will be yours.
“Inasmuch as ye did it to the least of these little
ones ye did it unto Me.”
Smallest contributions will be equally welcomed as
those whose larger means enable them to give more
largely. They should be sent to the Hon. Secretary of
the Committee, whose names were announced in the
Spiritualist of 28th November.
Morell Theobald.
62, Granville-park, Blackheatb.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
PART Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant's Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug. — 30. The Converted
Carman.  
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mens. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
The trapped medium;
OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6Jd. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Mffice, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
December, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
•' CONTENTS.'
Spiritualism in some-of its Religious Aspects: A
Comparison .and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Principal
Tulloch on Table-rapping: Dr. Nichols—Voices from
the Ages; the Alchemists and their Teachings: P.
Davidson—Philosophical Spiritualism: G, R. Tapp—
The Pocasset Tragedy: J. W. F.—A Catholic Faith.
' LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane. .
GLASGOW Hay NiSfiET & Co., 62, Ropework-lang.
Dec. 19, 1879.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
I The "Poughkeepsie Seer.’’ . s. d
The Physician. Yol. • I.. Gt. Harmonia . 7 6
The Teacher, „ II. „ • ..76
The Seer. , ' , III. ; „ 7 6
The Reformer. ,-, IV. ,, . . 7 6
The Thinker. „ V. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . ■. .36
Harbinger of Health . . . '. . -.76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . 2 6
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . 3 0
Morning Lectures .... .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager
Southampton- uildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON)," on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTEN.TS.
The Ignorant  289
Apparitions Recorded in Boswell's Zi/fe of Johnson 290
Correspondence:—A Dream Story—Public Stances
—Mediums in the Provinces  290
Physical Manifestations in Vermont 291
Provincial Spiritualism   292
Witches’ Ointment    293
Evil Omens Connected with the Stuart Standard 293
New Manifestations   294
Marriage of Mr. N. F. Daw    295
Psychische Studien — Invitation to English
Mediums     293
Spiritual Action from a Distance:—The Clair-
audience of Mrs. R. F. Burton     295
A Spiritualistic Study of Christmas. By J. T.
Markley       296
Cabinet Stances -—Seizing a Ghost      298
An Apparition     299
Paragraphs;—Dreaming to Some Purpose, 291;
Popular Superstitions in West Somerset, 293;
Benjamin Franklin’s Religion    294
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Cp,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwqod’s Rents
High Holbbrn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above*
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by'E. W- ALjiEff, Ave Marja-lahe. London
E.C ’
