__ ^ toitj S^intnalism in %xai Sritam.
No. 384. (VoL. XVI.—No. 1.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JANUARY 2, 1880. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
.TAMES WAT.TBY, ~
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Onality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,” §J|
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.,
■Will be opened next Monday, when catalogues may be bad on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of
postage of books. Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Oonduicted. by II. !P. BILAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, G IR G A U M BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Host Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of ‘ The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS EOR BE&INNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together
the results of his own experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should be treated; and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to the progress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The .Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1880,
Jyst arrived from America. A NEW BOOK by
EUGME CROWELL, M.I).,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
Its Inhabitants, Nature, and Philosophy.
Price 6s. Gd., post free. Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KAKDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. Gd. Tkubner and do., London.
Just Published.
S P I R IT - I D E N T I T Y.
By “M.A. (Oxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and setting
forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . . His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate HIll.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 8d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great nuniber of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
'they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. Gd.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. Cd., post free.
Phc Spifiiuali.st Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o clock for1 reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE
LONDON
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
1G4, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
’ Chnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
l, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
JJN NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
TYTRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
_LV_L and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90; Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
of the Fox Sisters, of New York City, U.S
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to io, either at house of party or at Mrs
Kane’s rooms, must be made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The probable effects of
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals op. the British National
Association op Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, Lbndon, W.O.
M" IND ANp MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Petma,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansotn-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
$. ttf thtJ Iftttil the Seiettee attti ISthies ef SpitiiittaUsm,
No. 384,—YojLUJtfE sixteen; Nujviber ojme,
LpnsrpQN, FRIDAY, JANUARY 2nd, 1880.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” Newspaper.
Establislied in 18(59.
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence.
Os. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and i \
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HAEEISON.
; \
British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to '£he Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia, Duke of Lbuchtenherg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R; F. Burton, F.R.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.j Edin¬
burgh.
Rbbert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I. '
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author bf The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Fmile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M-
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Sciehce.
0. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.R.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, l?sq-, M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N- T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
I Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Rue NeUve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal,Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Home ; British Redding Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiajat
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Rue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaad,
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearhey-street, San "Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application
fTIHE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In this |
JL extraordinary hook the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, i)
employed clairvoyants tb reveal to him by vision events connected with the |)
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas- i}
odon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they j\
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded, i (
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, I (
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta- I /
tipn of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by |)
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review j)
of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect that there is no doubt j)
as to the integrity of the author, who also, possesses sufficient intelligence to I \
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability i (
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability ; (
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places ; (
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes i(
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever i)
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of i)
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers ;)
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper i 1
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O,
PROFESSOK ZOLLNER’S NEW VOLUME.
(Translated from Professor Zollner's li Transcendentale
Physic,” Vol, III. of“ Wissenschaffliche Abhandlung p p. 234,
eti seq.)
I GO now to the account of similar experiments,
which have succeeded with me in the presence of
Mr. Slade, but which have a yet higher interest for
me, in that they have produced in me a conviction of
the reality of the so-called clairvoyance, or clear-
seeing.
On the 5th May, 1878, at about twenty-five
minutes past four, Mr. Slade, Herr Oscar von Hoff¬
mann, and I took our places at the table and in the
sun-lighted room, of which a photographic copy is
seen on Plate vii. Besides a number of slates, pur¬
chased by myself, there lay upon the table other
things, among them two small card-board boxes, in
which, at Slade’s first residence in Leipsic, in
December, 1877, I had put some pieces of money,
and then firmly plastered it up outside with strips
of paper. I had already at that time been in hopes
of the removal of the enclosed pieces of money with¬
out opening of the boxes. However, my friends and
I were so astonished and occupied with the multitude
of the other phenomena which happened at Slade’s
first and second visit to Leipsic (November and
December, 1877), that I abandoned the above-
mentioned experiment for the time, and postponed
it till Slade’s return to Leipsic. One of these boxes
was in form circular, and within it was a large piece
of money; this box was firmly fastened by a strip of
paper, the breadth of which corresponded to the
height of the box, and its length much exceeded the
circuit of the box; so, indeed, that first the strip of
paper was spread with liquid glue on one side over its
whole length and breadth, and was then stuck several
times round the box, so that the latter, after the
fastening, presented the appearance of a low cylinder
of paste-board. The other box was rectangular, of
the same sort1 as those in which steel pens are kept.
In this box I had put two small pieces of money, and
had then closed it by sticking a strip of paper round
it, perpendicularly to its length, by means ' of liquid
glue.
As mentioned above, I had already, in December,
1877, fastened up these boxes, and as I had observed
neither the value of the enclosed coins nor their
date, I could afterwards only ascertain by the noise
from shaking the boxes that enclosed in the circular
one was a large German coin (a thaler or a five-mark,
piece), in the rectangular one two smaller coins;
whether these were pennies, groschen, or five-groschen
pieces I had, after the lapse of half a year, at the
time of Slade’s last stay in Leipsic, entirely for¬
gotten.
After we had taken our places at the card-table on
2
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1880.
the above-mentioned day in the manner described,
I took up the round box, and satisfied myself, by
shaking, of the presence of the coin I had enclosed in it.
Herr 0. von Hoffmann did the same, and lastly Mr.
Slade, who asked us for what purpose I had designed
this box. I explained my purpose in a few words, and at
the same time declared that it would be one of the
finest confirmations of the reality of the fourth dimen¬
sion, if his invisible, intelligent being succeeded in
removing that coin from the box without opening it.
Slade, ready, as always, to conform to my wish, took
in the usual manner one of the slates which lay at
hand, laid a morsel of slate pencil upon it (indeed, as
it happened, a considerably larger one than usual),
and held the slate with his right hand, half under
the table. We heard writing, and when the slate
was drawn out, there was found upon it the request
to lay a second piece of pencil on the slate, which
was done. Then Slade, who sat at my left (Yon
Hoffmann was on my right), held the slate with the
two bits of pencil again under the table, while he as
well as we awaited intently what should come there.
MeanwhiJe the two fastened-up boxes lay untouched
on about the middle of the table. Some minutes
passed without anything happening, when Slade
gazed fixedly in a particular direction in the
corner of .the room, and at the same time said, quite
astonished, but slowly, the words dragged after one
another, and partly with, repetition : “ I see—see
funf and eighteen hundred seventy-six.” Neither
Slade nor we knew what that could mean, and both
Herr 0. von Hoffmann and myself remarked almost
simultaneously that, at any rate, “funf” signified
“funf ” (five), and made the solution of the addition
5 -f- 1876 = 1881. While I threw out this remark
half in jest, we heard a hard object fall on the slate,
which Slade during all the time had held under the
table with his right hand (the left lying before us
on the table). The slate was immediately drawn
out, and on it was found the five-mark piece, with
the date 1876. Naturally, I forthwith snatched up
the pasteboard box standing before me, and which
during all the foregoing had been touched by nobody,
to ascertain, by shaking, the absence of the piece of
money which had been in it half an hour before; and
behold ! it was quite empty and silent; the box was
robbed of its contents in the shape of the five-mark
piece.
As may be supposed, our pleasure at such an un¬
hoped for success of our experiment was extremely
great; all the more, that by it at the same time was
established the existence of a direct peiception of
objects, not effected in the ordinary way of our sense
perceptions.
Moreover, it could not be any so-called thought¬
reading by the medium ; that is, the perception of
representations already in the heads of human beings.
For neither I, and much less Mr. Slade and Herr von
Hoffmann, knew what sort of coin there was in the
box, nor what date it bore.
I was so satisfied with the success of this experi¬
ment under such stringent conditions that I was
thinking of putting an end to the sitting, and post¬
poning further attempts to a later one. However,
Slade remarked that he did not feel himself at all
exhausted by the sitting, which had lasted at most
|| ten minutes. This remark of Slade caused us to
■U keep our places at the card-table, and to engage in
B| unconstrained conversation with him. I introduced
/| the subject of his sitting with the Grand Duke
Constantine of Russia, and requested him to give us
a detailed account of the phenomena which took
P place at it, as hitherto we had seen only the brief
paragraph statement about them in the press. Thus
lj: urged, Slade mentioned that a very remarkable
M experiment in slate-writing had succeeded in the
gf presence of the Grand Duke Constantine. Acci-
)! dentally there had been two bits of pencil on the
|p slate ; when he held it under the table the writing of
two pencils was heard at the same time, and when
|i he drew out the slate the one pencil had written
f from left to right, the other, at the same time, from
>j| right to left. I at once proposed to try whether this
)j experiment would succeed also with us; the sug-
\| gestion arose from me quite naturally from the
|| association of ideas elicited by the two bits of pencil
wdiich had been required in the above-mentioned
7j experiment, without our having as yet known the
s| object of this written demand.
H Slade, at once ready to comply with my wish,
vj held the slate with the two bits of pencil under the
A table-surface, and we soon heard very clearly writing
> i upon it.
When the slate was withdrawn there was on it a
) i communication in English as follows:—
\\' “ 10—Pfennig—1876
>| 2—Pfennig—1875
Jj Let this be proof to you of clairvoyance. After
>| the nine days you must rest or it will harm you and
11 the medium. Believe in me, your friend.”
We at once referred the first part of this message
jj to the two coins contained in the rectangular box
>| still unopened. I was just about to open it, we
J| having immediately before convinced ourselves by
| shaking the box, and the distinct jingling within it,
11 of the presence of the two smaller coins, yet without
I knowing the value or date of them. Suddenly,
(j however, I changed my intention, and set the little
Ij box again uninjured on the middle of the table, while
as well Herr von Hoffmann as also Slade suggested
I the possibility that perhaps the two coins, in like
| manner as shortly before the five-mark piece, might
fall from the unopened box upon the slate held under-
| neath. Immediately upon this suggestion, Slade again
/ i held an empty slate under the middle of the table.
(i Scarcely was this done, when we distinctly heard two
; I coins drop down on the surface of the slate, and on closer
y! examination, the above statements on the slate we,
)| in fact, found confirmed. Highly delighted, I now
y| seized the still closed box in the confident expec-
(\ tation that it would, like the round box, be empty,
(j and that, therefore, on shaking no rattling within
/| would be heard. How great was my surprise when
Ivj nevertheless the rattling happened, proceeding,
indeed, likewise from two bodies, which yet, judging,
from the altered character of the sound, could not be
coins. Already I was intending to convince myself
of the contents of the box, by opening it, which could
not be done without tearing the strips of paper
pasted over it, when Slade prepared to get our
>! question answered, as usual in such cases, through
U slate-writing by his “spirits,” Scarcely had he taken
THE BANSHEE IN DR. KENEALY’S FAMILY.
a slate with a fragment of pencil lying upon it, and
held it half under the table, when we distinctly heard
writing. Upon the upper surface of the slate was
written in English—
“ The two slate pencils are in the box.”
In fact the two larger pieces of slate pencil were
nowhere to be found, and when I now opened the box
by tearing the strip of paper glued to it, there within
it, to our great ioy, were both the pieces of pencil.
ME. J. A. CAMPBELL’S LETTEES.
Sie,—I find that many people do not understand what my
reasons can be for proposing to print my letters separately month
by month, and asking their help in enabling me to do so, mstead
of publishing them as a series in one of our spiritual papers. To
my fiiends (and I never thought of addressing others, and don’t
care whether they understand or not), I hope it will be sufficient
answer to say that I have reasons, manifold and weighty, which
will be explained in the course of the letters themselves.
But it seems to me that I have not yet given a sufficiently
intelligible reply to a far more important, and, in these days of
telephones and telegraphs and steam printing, generally over¬
looked question—why I desire to speak at all, which only one
person has asked of me. Yet on the character of this reply, and
not of the other, both sympathy and aid ought altogether to
depend. Good friend, I will answer you as clearly and as tersely
as I can.
Because it has become necessary that some one, or, better
still, some body of people, should make a more systematic and
earnest effort than has yet been made :—
(1) To arrange in order the things that we positively know
regarding the powers and governing laws of what for present
purposes let me call, without offence, psychic force.
(2) To consider how the resultant clearer understanding of
these same powers and laws may be applied to further those ends
for which alone any kind of knowledge is to be sought—the glory
of God and the edifying of mankind. And, on the other hand,
how the increasing evil may be checked which follows upon the
misunderstanding and misapplication of them to the glory of the
devil and the destruction of mankind.
I know the magnitude of the effort. Only in dependence on
that eternal law of righteousness, which has been at all times
and in all places the same; in security of help from those who
will speak only what they know; above all, in reverent submission
to the perpetual ruling of that Lord who gave to this world its
simplest, and at the same time its noblest and most inspiring
faith, do I undertake it, feeling my weakness, but not having
any fear.
These are the objects Ifor and this the spirit in which I
shall speak, and I ask those who sympathise with both to
help me.
1 have only to add that to print the letters for six months will
cost T13. Are there thirteen poople who think that one pound’s
worth of good may be done by them ? If so, will they write, as
some have indeed already done, to “ Godfrey Blount, Esq.,
Pembroke Coll., Cambridge,” before the end of next week ?
Twelve pages octavo will be the minimum size that I propose
for each letter. The last three or four will be occupied with
correspondence from fellow-workers, and illustrations may some¬
times be inserted.
The series of letters will be so arranged that at the end of
June they may be gathered into a continuous volume, with the
supplementary matter at the end. J. A. Campbell.
As questions have been raised as to the time at which Mr.
and Mrs. Holmes left England, we may state that it was early in
1874. The visit of Mr. and Mrs. Holmes took place so long |, I
ago that the details are unknown to many of the readers of these 1 j j
pages. They gave a number of very severe test seances, and the j )j
one thing published against them among Spiritualists during j) j
their career in England was, that when a light was struck at one j < |
of their sittings they were said to have been seen out of their | \ |
places, one of them handling a guitar. The matter attracted no j) j
general public attention, but for a week or two made a hubbub j/i
inside the movement.
K|
||j The strain was like the thrush’s note
j (I Heard in sequestered Sgail,
i (| Or like the blackbird’s chorus sweet,
f>j M./ . In Letter-legh’s lone vale.
m. It was a song of sorrow;
The lay of a broken heart.
Murmured to weeping music—
| <i Artless—and void of art.
{M
Murmured to weeping music.
And blent with tears and sighs ;
Murmured to weeping music
That drowns in grief the eyes.
Of the regular “ banshee ” we hear but little now.
Kj Whether the old royal Irish lines have become, by
|)| process of time, so tainted with inferior blood that
Kj the wailing messenger cannot decide in whose veins
j)j the princely drop still lingers, or whether the utili-
i(j tarian shriek of the railway whistle has fairly
j)j drowned her own, the banshee is all but dumb,
j j Notwithstanding, her warning cry has been heard
j|| in the living generation, and by one whose name
j(; it is allowable to mention—Dr. Kenealy—in truth
j)| the representative of one of those ancient lines.
The death of this gentleman’s only brother
|p occurred when he—the doctor—was yet a boy, and
jsj that event, as well as the warning that preceded it,
j)| left a lasting impression on his mind. His brother’s
i j bedroom opened on a large and far-extending tract
j) j bounded by green hills. In this apartment most of
j \ | the members of the family—the doctor among them
j)j —were sitting about noon, the sun streaming beauti-
m fully through the thin transparent air, when sud-
!) j denly a strain of melody, more divinely sweet than
j\j any earthly music they had ever heard, rose near at
m hand. It was the melancholy wail of a woman’s
i j! j voice, in accents betokening a depth of woe not to be
j| described in words. It lasted several minutes, then
i) j appeared to melt away like the ripple of a wave—
now heard, now lost in whispers—till “nothing lives
’twixt it and silence.”
As the song commenced, the dying boy fell into
the last agony ; but such was the effect of the
circumstance upon those who stood around that
their attention was almost distracted from the
solemn scene, and one of them (the nurse) exclaimed
involuntarily:—
“ What a voice she has ! That is the Banshee.”
As the last note became inaudible, the child’s spirit
passed away.
Dr. Kenealy refers to this never-to-be-forgotten
circumstance in a recently-published work :—
“ Here the Baushee, that phantom bright who weeps
Over the dying of her own loved line,
Floated in moonlight; in her streaming locks
Gleamed star-shine; when she looked on me, she knew
And smiled.”
Again:—
“ The wish has but
Escaped my lips—and lo ! once more it streams
In liquid lapse upon the fairy winds,
That guard each slightest note with jealous care,
And bring them hither, even as angels might
To the beloved to whom they minister.”*
—From <(Strange Things Among Us,” by IT. Spicer.
* Oothe.—A. new pantomime. A work of marvellous, Put undisciplined
power; tender and daring, exquisite—and lamentable.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1880.
A NATIONAL ANTHEM GIVEN BY INSPIRATION.
From the “ New Yorle Herald,'' November Zlth, 1879.
Since it has been widely stated that Mr. P. S.
Gilmore, the well-known maestro and organiser of
the Jubilee Festival, has composed the music and
words of a new national hymn for America, entitled
“ Columbia,” the greatest interest in the matter has
been felt in musical and social circles. Excellent
judges have declared that the composition is so full
of merit that it will immediately become popular.
A reporter of The Herald visited the composer
yesterday at his residence in Twelfth-street. His
home is one in which any person would like to linger.
The pictures on the wall, the relics of artistic success,
bric-a-brac scattered here and there, a library well-
thumbed and a library table well-tumbled, faced by
Beethoven and a score of the satellites of the musical
world, battle pictures resting on easels, and water
pitchers in other suggestive situations «— these
fill the eye while the visitor is hunting among the
easy chairs to choose a seat. Mr. Gilmore is at all
times one of the most approachable gentlemen in his
profession when it is desirable to obtain information
for the public. Yesterday, however, he frankly con¬
fessed that he did not know where to begin the story
connected with his recent composition, or to give the
incident intelligent shape.
“ I have been,” he' said, “ in a condition of mental
excitement such as I have never known in my
career, and until this heaven-inspired production is
presented to the public in the manner which I have
planned I expect to have no rest.”
Pf But how did this trouble originate ? ” inquired
the reporter.
“ I was lying on yonder lounge in a half dreamy
mood,,J he said, “ when suddenly there flashed upon
me, complete in all of its details, just like a perfect
picture, a melody, a thought. I ran to my desk and
put it on paper. Here! see ! there is a change in but
one note. There it is—the original, just as it came
inspired by the angels. It isn’t mine. I make no
claim to it. It has come from God. I am -only the
messenger. From that moment it assumed form,
and to me possessed a soul. The melody filled my
nature to a degree that I was unable to repress.
Going to the Grand Opera House to attend the usual
Sunday evening concert, I found myself $till in the
dream, charmed. I went through the direction of
the music of my band in a purely mechanical way,
sometimes being obliged to count the movements of
my own baton to assure myself of my own idehtity.
To tell you the truth, spiritually I was not there at
all. I remember that the overture of the evening
was from William Tell, which is as familiar to me
as A, B, C, and that as an automaton I went through
certain motions, but the melody that had come to me
an hour or two before so possessed my being that
nothing else could take its place.5'’
“ What was your first thought when this melody
presented itself ? ”
“ I could only say, f Thank God !1 for I felt that it
was a gift from above. Then came the desire to wed
this beautiful music to verse. Returning from the
Opera House I retired, but during the night scarcely
closed my eyes. I said to myself, I have secured the
soul, but where is the body ? and so, tumbling and
tossing, restless and uneasy, struggling with some¬
thing, I know not what, for two or three days and
nights, suddenly, as if by inspiration, there appeared
the picture of America from her growth to the present
time, presented in verse. I sprang from one of those
sleepless beds, and with only the few interlineations
you see (Mr. Gilmore here produced the original copy
in pencil) I transcribed what has been sent to me by
heaven. I believe it—yes; don’t smile, it is im¬
mortal ! ”
“And how do you propose to utilise this idea?”
inquired the writer.
“ In a business way I have protected myself by
copyright so far as the music is concerned, but wher¬
ever the words and music are combined in the
schools I shall be glad to have them used. Indeed,
I think there will be no public occasion on which
after awhile the stirring notes of my anthem will not
be heard. The last verse is especially adapted for
every reverential occasion. For myself I sing it as
my morning and evening prayer, and my family join
me in using it as a part of our nightly praise to the
Almighty.”
“How did the name ‘Columbia’ so happily occur
to you ?”
“ It was merely oile of those happy thoughts that
grow around a man when he is intellectually in a
process of incubation. The great events of the nation
came to me, rank and file. They found me in a spell
—a frenzy. They shaped themselves. I. was only
the amanuensis, and it was with the melody ringing
in my ears that I put the lines on paper. When the
work was finished I felt as if I had lived fifty years.”
“ I infer from your conversation that you do not
regard this as a commercial enterprise.”
“Not in the least. From the moment I called my
poem ‘Columbia’ I felt that the music and the
words would make their mark on the face of time.
They have been sent.from heaven and are an inspi¬
ration. Such words and music never would have
been given me if they were not intended for a great
and beautiful mission.”
“Have you any objection to the publication of the
words ?”
“ None whatever. Here they are.” And Mr.
Gilmore presented the writer with a copy, from which
the following publication is made :—
COLUMBIA. .
1.
Columbia ! First and fairest gem
On Nature’s brow—a diadem,
Whose lustre, bright as heavenly star,
The light of freedom sheds afar.
Like Noah’s Ark, a God-sent bark,
In search of land, through day and dark,
First found thee held by Nature’s child.
The red man in his wigwam, wild.
2.
Columbia ! Soon the tidings spread
Of what Columbus saw and said ;
The eyes of man then turned to thee,
The new land rising from the sea;
Each spread his sail before the gale,
To verify the wondrous tale.
And thus began what \yas to be
The hope and home of Liberty.
5
Jan. 2. 1880. THE SPIRIT U ALI ST.
3.
Columbia ! In thiue early days
Our Pilgrim Fathers sang thy praise.
They landed from the Mayflower'$ deck.
On Plymouth Rock—a snow-clad speck—
That marks the place from which the race
Of Puritans their true blood trace,
Who bought our Independence dear
With hearts of steel that knew no fear.
h:
Columbia ! ’Twas in fire and blood
Brave Washington, the foremost, stood.
With banner high and sword in hand,
He drove the tyrant from the land ;
Thy breast still sore, to thy heart’s core,
Till washed again in human gore—
In martyr blood! Shed not in vain.
It left thee whole without a stain.
5.
Columbia ! See what thou art now,
A crown of stars on Nature’s brow ;
With fields of gold and teeming marts,
With fifty million loving hearts,
Who cling to thee from sea to sea
To guard thy peace aiid liberty;
Who man to man shall e’er be just.
And in the Lord place all their trust.
8.
Columbia ! Lift thine eyes on high,
See Him who dwells in yonder sky,
The King of Glory on His throne.
Who looks on all, for all’s His own.
Our earthly gain would be in vain,
A. home in heaven to attain,
If with our hearts we did not pay
Our debt to Him. Then let us pray.
7.
At morn, at noon, at eventide,
Oh, Lord! be ever at our side,
That we Thy voice may always hear,
And feel that Thou art ever near.
In mercy spare from grief and carte
The nation, bowed in fervent prayer,
Who ask with reverent love and awe,
God bless and save America !
“Many attempts/’ said Mr. Gilmore, “have been
made to write a national song to order, but they have
all failed. Music and sentiment cannot be made by
machinery. If what I have done is effective, as I
believe it will be, the credit ^ill come from the grand
impulses of the popular heart.' The melody will
sound its own singing way.”
“ Do you expect to Supplaht ‘ Yankee Doodle/
‘ Hail Columbia/ ‘ The Star-spangled Banner/ and
‘ Red, White, and Blue ? ’ ”
“Not at all, And yet neither of these airs is
American. Nor are the words of the songs as effec¬
tive as those which are presented in the heaven-born
song I have handed you. But. I think there is an
inspiration in ‘ Coluhibia ’ that will giye it place
wherever it may be heard.”
“ How do you propose to introduce this compo¬
sition to the public V’
“ It is my purpose to secure some large auditorium,
like that of the Academy of Music, and give the pro¬
ceeds of the performance equally to St. John’s Guild
and the Society of St. Vincent de Paul. I know that
a large orchestra and hundreds of singers will volun¬
teer their services, and it is my hope that some of
the distinguished men of America will unite with me
in adding shape and colour to the introduction of the
anthem. No one shall make any money out of the
l undertaking. I regard the theme as sacred, and if
) i the blessing of heaven is to rest upon it, as it has
I thus far done, it must be in the charity that goes to
f the poor,
In ending his conversation, Mr. Gilmore said that
|| he did, not know the exact date on which
II “ Columbia ” would be presented to the public, but
)j he expected to perfect his arrangements during the
11 next fortnight.
A CURIOUS PROPHECY.
One of the forerunners of modern Spiritualism
)i was John Tritheim, who flourished in the fifteenth
/ century, the irreproachable abbe of a convent of
j:| Benedictines at Spauheim, a learned theologian and
! the teacher of the celebrated Cornelius Agrippa.
ij He had the reputation of being able to evoke demons
/ and to raise the dead. It is related of him, for ex-
p ample, that finding himself at the court bf the
) | Emperor Maximilian, who was inconsolable for the
(i death of his first wife, Mary of Burgundy, he took
pity on his grief and offered to show him the
11 deceased princess, and that Maximilian and one of
(| his courtiers having been shut up with the abbe in a
)| lonely chamber, Mary actually appeared to their
11 eyes, in the rich apparel of her earth life, and that
|i to make sure it was she herself, her august husband
(\ felt for and found a wart which he knew was situated
1| on the nape of the princess’s neck. This frightened
I him so that he ordered Tritheim to close the seance
| at once, and forbade him ever to renew such experi¬
ments. There is no doubt that Tritheim had
| penetrated many of the secrets of modern Spirit-
I ualism, and he was even persuaded that it was
possible to transport a man’s body long distances
I through the air.
jp ,P . n , ,
Tritheim was a voluminous writer, and in his
(j Opera Historlca (Frankfort, 1601) he gives what he
)j calls his Mystic Chronology. It is a key of all
\ i prophecies, ancient and niodern, including the Apo-
ij calypse, and also a treatise on the philosophy of
I history more independent and more complete than
| those of either Vico or Bossuet. We shall not go
| over his survey of the past history of the world,
| which is based oh the Kabbalah, but we shall
| simply call attention to a curious prediction falling
due in the month of November, 1879, which John
| Tritheim calls the epoch of the reign of Michael and
i of the foundation of a universal kingdom. “This
! kingdom,” he says, “ will have been prepared by three
| centuries and a half of anguish and three centuries
| and a half of hopes; epochs which coincide precisely
with the sixteenth, Seventeenth, eighteenth, and the
I half of the nineteenth centuries for the dawn of
| hope; with the fourteenth, thirteenth, twelfth, and
| half of the eleventh for the trials, the ignorance,
i the sufferings and the scourges of all kinds of the
d middle ages.” According to his calculation, then, in.
)j 1879 a universal empire is to be founded and to give
\i peace to the world. Commentators have explained
)i this as a political event, and have usually assigned
s | the kingdom to France; but may they not have made
) I the same mistake as the Jews did at the first coming
s | of our Lord ? May it not be that the prophecy refers
11 to the setting up of the Kingdom of God among
6
THE SPIRITUALIST.
JAN. 2, 1880.
peoples freed from the yoke of tyrants, and from
whose eyes the bandage of error and ignorance has
been torn ? According to Tritheim, that kingdom
will be both political and religious; it will solve all
the problems which agitate men’s minds in these
days, and it will last three hundred and fifty-four
years and four months. Then will return the reign
of Orifiel, that is to say an epoch of silence and of
night. Who knows ?—Mind and Matter (Phila¬
delphia).
NEW YEAR’S EYE.
Oh ! New Year, come and laugh with us !
The Old Year is so sad,
And he can smile on us no more,
Our pleasant days with him are o’er,
And nothing makes us glad.
Oh ! New Year, come and pray for us !
The Old Year cannot pray,
Unanswered longings fret his soul,
And tides of disappointment roll
Upon our hearts to-day.
Oh ! New Year, bring thou light to us !
The Old Year has grown blind,
He cannot guide our weary feet,
We miss the things we go to meet,
‘We seek, but never find.
Oh ! New Year, come and govern us !
And teach us how to fight,
The Old Year cannot lead us more,
For he is wounded very sore,
And he will die tO-night.
So be thou King, and come to us !
Our precious dreams make true,
Make highways through the desert sand,
Bring all our lost ships back to land,
And clothe.the waste anew.
Bring down fresh hope to comfort us,
Our foolish doubts remove,
Give plenty after weary dearth,
Proclaim a peace through all the earth,
And fill the world with Love.
The Old-Year dieth quietly,
The night is chill and drear,
No stars light up the sullen skies,
The earth is full of travail-cries,
Dawn on us, glad New Year !
Dear God, we raise our hearts to greet
Thy Messenger Divine,
For good or ill we cannot tell,
But what he brings is surely well,
For all the years are Thine.
C. A. Burke. I
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Mr. Serjeant Cox was the life and soul of the
Psychological Society, in the body of which there
was little enthusiasm. At the last special general
meeting the following resolutions were passed bring¬
ing the society to an end:—
1. That inasmuch as the society was founded by Mr. Serjeant
Cox for a special object, which has in some measure been
attained, and he was throughout distinctly identified with the
undertaking, and his loss is practically irreparable, it is expedient
that the society should be dissolved as from December 31, 1879;
and that (except for the purpose of adjusting accounts) it be dis¬
solved accordingly.
2. That Mr. E. K. Munton be requested to retain his appoint¬
ment as hon. sec. and treasurer as long as may be necessary to
collect the assets and discharge the obligations of the society, he
rendering an account thereof in due course to the Council,
who, for this limited purpose, shall remain in office and be
called together to decide on the appropriation of the balance, if
any.
3. That it be a recommendation to the Council, when called
together under the preceding resolution, that the surplus funds,
if any, be devoted to the binding up, in one uniform volume, of
complete sets of the prints of the society’s proceedings and
papers published under its auspices, for presentation to every
member of the society who shall have paid his subscription for
1879, or shall at any time since the society was established have
paid for two whole years, and complied with the rules and regu¬
lations.
4. That the best thanks of the society are hereby given to F.
K. Munton, Esq., for his honorary services as secretary and
treasurer of the society from its formation to the present time.
The annual subscriptions for the supply of The Spiritualist
by post during 1880 are now over due from those who have not
yet remitted the amount. The sum due is 10s. lOd. from each
subscriber within the limits of the British and Foreign Postal
Union. The paper can now be had as cheaply in nearly every
part of Europe as it can in England.
Among the new books to be issued from The Spiritualist
office some two months hence, will be a richly-illustrated transla¬
tion of the psychical experiments of Dr. Zollner, Professor of
Astronomy at .Leipzig University. The men of science chiefly
interested in the researches have given special international copy¬
right and other facilities for the issue of the forthcoming book.
Aechdeacon Gordon-Gumming Dunbar and the Rev. Sir
William Dunbar, Bart., both of whom occasionally attend Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory’s seances, are sometimes mistaken for each
other by a portion of our readers. Moreover, there is another
Sir William Dunbar, but he is not a clergyman. Mrs. Louisa
Lowe, hon. sec. to the Lunacy Law Reform Association, and
Mrs. Louie M. Lowe, the medium, have sometimes been erro¬
neously supposed to be the same.
Last Saturday Mr. and Mrs. G. F. Yarley entertained a large
number of friends at their residence, Cromwell House, Bexley
Heath, Kent, on the occasion of the coming of age of their
eldest son, Mr. C. O. Yarley. Festivity and harmony prevailed,
and dancing was kept up until a late hour. Among the guests
were Mr. and Mrs. William Crookes, Mr. and Mrs E. Graves,
Mrs. and Miss Rochussen, Mr. C. E. Spagnoletti, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. Mnirhead, Mr. McColla, Dr. and Mrs. Wheeler,
and many others.
The Countess of Caithness is now at her winter residence in
Nice, and gives us glowing accounts of the climate there. Several
other English Spiritualists are establishing themselves in the
towns on the northern shore of the Mediterranean until the close
of the winter season, and there are a few in Algiers. Dr. Friese,
the Breslau savant, who has just visited England to see the
spiritual phenomena here, was delighted above all things with the
November and December weather, which to residents consists of
pea-soup fogs and cold slush. He explained that in Germany
snow and ice-water would be deep, with no surrounding sea to
promote warmth.
Jan. 2, 1880. THE SPIRI
PSYCHOGEAPHY EXTEAOEDINARY. . ||j
BY THE HON. J. L. O’SULLIVAN, FORMEELY AMERICAN MINISTER J)|
AT THE COURT OF PORTUGAL. j(l
. ' • . ; ■ !/ i'
Your old correspondent has been of late rather a |||
delinquent contributor. But “it’s a far cry to nj
Lochow and when separated by the Atlantic, one |||
is less prompted by the occasion to write than when m
the postal distance measures only by hours, as was in
the case when I used to write you from Paris.
But I have recently had in Philadelphia such in- m
teresting experiences in psychography, that I feel !)|
impelled to send you some account of them—the i (|
more so as they have some connection with those I j)j
witnessed in San Francisco (see Spiritualist, March |(|
30, and June 1, 1877). The medium was Mr. Henry j)j
C. Gordon, to whom I was referred by Col. Roberts, j < |
the editor of the Philadelphia Spiritualist weekly, m
Mind and Matter. I spent several days under Mr. ||
Gordon’s friendly and fraternal roof, and seeing him |)|
at all hours I became satisfied that he is one of the K j
very finest mediums I have ever come into contact !)|
with. . . i !sj
The special manifestation of the direct writing, j)
while it is the only one of which I had had much ij|
previous experience, is the phenomenon now of the j) i
deepest interest and value to me. Of all the others, |) j
in their various forms and phases, my experience had i/j
been long and large, including that which is such a m
stumbling-block, even to so many Spiritualists, of j / j
materialisation. You know that for years I was a j)j
daily attendant on the wonderful course of private |/|
seances, in Paris, under the auspices of the liberal K j
and philosophical Count de Bullet, of which seances |)|
I was the historiographer in your columns. But all jv|
the phenomena of what may be called the physical j)j
order, however valuable as “ miraculous” evidences, |\!
and therefore useful to beginners and investigators, j)j
lose their relative importance, and the interest of l||
novelty, after a certain stage of progress in Spirit- j < |
ualism. The communications purporting to come If
from spirits, through mediums, respecting the spirit- tlj
life and conditions and experiences, are more or less fl
doubtful and unsatisfactory, for two reasons : 1st, the j j j
uncertainty as to the grade and character and fl
genuineness of the spirits, which vary widely, from ul
superior to inferior and unprogressed; 2nd, because we b j
can never know, as the medium himself generally can- j j j
not know, how far those communications are influenced, | j j
coloured, or distorted, by the unconscious action of Kj
his own mind, always comparatively abnormal, and m
specially so in his condition of mediumistic influence. j(j
Even in that highest phase of mediumship manifested j/j
by not a few of the trance or inspirational speakers Kj
in their wonderful extemporised eloquence, both in j/j
prose and poetry (the evidence of manifest inspira- j(j
tion by an extraneous and higher influence being most j) j
certain in the rhymed and rhythmed poetry, full of Ijj
logical sequence as well as of high thought, pure j||
feeling, and beautiful diction)—even in that phase of j(j
it we can never draw any exact line of demarcation j>j
between the interblended and ecstatised human intel- j < j
lect of the speaker and the extraneous inspiration i/j
which suggests to him the ideas. But when neither j (j
the hand of the writing medium, nor the tongue of j j j
the inspirational speaker, plays any part in what ||{
takes place, where no human hand has or can have
TJALIST. 7
any possible access to the slate or blank paper on
which the written communications come at our
request, and in response to our inquiries, or on sub¬
jects not thought of by us, or from spirits known to
us, but not in our minds at the time—then have we
at least the absolute certainty that, whatever com¬
munications come, they come direct, unmixed, and
unadulterated, from spirit sources. And that is an
immense satisfaction and an immense privilege for a
mortal still in the flesh. The question must still indeed
remain an open one as to whether they really pro¬
ceed from the spirits from whom they purport to
come, and whose names, and generally signatures,
they bear. It is still supposable that they may
come from deceptive spirits personating others whose
names they assume. On this point we must exercise
our own best judgment from the intrinsic evidence;
from confirmation on other occasions through other
mediums and other spirits; from the character, the
elevated or the low condition of the communicating
spirit as it may appear from the tone and animus of
the communication, and from its correspondence with
what our reason would lead us to expect from those
particular spirits. But at any rate, it is at least
certain that such communications come to us straight
and direct, and with no disturbing or qualifying
mortal intervention, from spirits.
Of such communications I received a number
at four private stances held with Mr. Gordon,' at
which the mode employed excluded any possibility
of deception. For we sat alone in a room in
which the light of an unclouded sun was only a
little subdued by a grey paper window shade. It
was at an old mahogany table of some size, with
broad hanging flaps or leaves. On its underside was
nothing but the four legs, and the ordinary frame
connecting them. Each leaf, when opened, was
supported by a bar or tongue of the old-fashioned
kind, pivoting on its inner end, which tongue, when
the leaf was down, was received in a slot cut in the
cross piece of the table frame. This slot, of about an
inch in diameter, was of course empty when the
tongue was out, engaged in its proper duty of sup¬
porting the leaf when raised. This empty slot
afforded a receptacle into which could be thrust a
light pasteboard box, nine inches by six, and an inch
in depth. The box therefore fitted pretty tight in
the slot left vacant by the withdrawal of the tongue.
It is proper that this should be clearly understood,
because the use of that box at Mr. Gordon’s is that a
half sheet of note paper is laid in it, with a small bit
of lead from an ever-pointed pencil, on which the
spirit writing is expected to appear. I myself laid
the blank paper in the box, which I then closed and
thrust into the receptacle, where it was held tightly
clamped, with its upper surface closely pressed against
the under side of the table top. It was one of the
common thin pasteboard boxes from some fancy-
article shop, with a cover hinging by its paper con¬
nection with the lower part or body of the box, and
the ends and front side of the cover were of the same
depth as that of the box, so that when shut the edges
of the cover reached down to the bottom of the box.
Such a box requires some manipulation with both
hands to raise the cover to open it. It was necessary
to hold the bottom of the box down with the nails of
8 THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 2, 1880.
one hand, while the cover was raised with the fingers
of the other. A large heavy cloth covered the table,
at which the mediuiri and I sat at right angles to each
other, he at the end fronting the lifted leaf, I at the
sides.
Besides the box which contained the paper and bit
of lead pencil, there was a slate with ah almost im¬
perceptible mite of slate pencil on it, which with his
left hand the medium held by its corner under the
table, close up to the table top, his other hand resting
with my two oh the top of the table. His knees (in
my full view) were outside of the table-cloth as it
hung, so that they partially pressed it inward.
In this situation it is clear, first, that it was impos¬
sible for the medium to perforin any writing on the
slate; second, that it was, further, twofold impossible
for him to do so on the paper shut up in the closed
box tightly clamped in the slot or receptacle above
described. We were alone in the room. Both pencil
and box were simultaneously under the table, and
both were simultaneously written upon by different
spirits ; that is, spirits signing with different names.
I say, absolutely by spirits, because the demonstra¬
tion is conclusive that ho mortal hand had or could
have any access to either the slate or the paper.
The slate was always written upon on its upper side,
which was held close up to the table top ; on one
occasion both its sides were covered with the writing.
Even Messrs. Lankester and Donkin, had they been
present, must have been compelled, under such con¬
clusive test conditions, to “'give in to spirits.”
I held four of these private seances with Mr.
Gordon, and received a great many such communica¬
tions, both on the slate and on the paper. Many of
them were in reference to my questions or requests,
and were signed, in some cases, by spirits I had
known in the flesh. Occasionally, but not often, we
would find the paper blank. After copying and
expunging from the slate, we would replace it under
the table, as also we would do with the box, after
substituting a fresh blank sheet for the oue found
written upon. The writing on this slate we could
hear while in progress, usually by the scratching
sound pf the pencil (as with Dr. Slade), but two of
three times it was indicated by the same flow of rapid
little ticks, sounding like a flow of electric sparks, as
in my former experience, nearly three years ago, in
San Francisco. Whenever the writing was finished
on the slate it was promptly pushed out towards me,
sliding in close contact with the under side of the
table top. On one of these occasions it stuck to the
table so tightly, as though by magnetic adhesion,
that the medium and I had to exert considerable
strength with our hands to pull it out; so much so,
that we dislocated the wooden frame of the slate
before we got it out.
I do not enter at large into the contents of these
communications. It would carry us too far. The
signers were in general no ordinary persons in this
life, though some of them were members of my own
family, of whose names the medium could not have
had any knowledge. The matters written about
were of grave importance and of the deepest interest,
nor was there anything frivolous or insignificant. On
one occasion, when four distinguished persons had
been said to be present (who signed the reply to the
| inquiry put by me), there was unexpectedly added
f! to those greater names that of a brother of my own,
II; as though for a sort of endorsement, designed to
( j secure my personkl confidence in the genuineness of
>! the other and far greater names. “Who is Thomas
(\ O’Sullivan ? ” the medium asked of hie. And again,
vj “Who is Adam Clarke—Dr. Adam Clarke ?” ...
A strong religious spirit pervaded all the stances,
I as it, indeed,, seehied to characterise this! medium in
the various other manifestations I witnessed during
Yi my stay under his roof. To sundry other communi-
(I cations concerning “Jesus, the Christ,” appeared the
y| following great names : Mary, the mother of Jesus,
(i St. John, Dr. Adam Clarke, Emanuel Swedenborg,
i Archbishop Hughes, Dr. Wm. E. Charming, Theodore
h Parker, Martin Luther, George Washington, R. D.
>i Owen, my friend Don Pedro, the late King of Portu-
(j gal, and others, together sometimes with members of
) I my own family, as though for the pufposb of
<| impressing my mirid, habitually distrustful of com-
)j munications purporting to come from great historical
characters.
Readers will interpret these things as they please.
(| I cannot, of course, vouch for any of these great
>] names. Had they come in the common modes, in
(j which there may be room for supposing some inter-
)\ vention, conscious or unconscious, of the human mind
(j of a writing or speaking medium, the very greatness
>1 of the names presented would have tended to awaken
(| doubt in my mind as to their genuineness; but I
)j cannot deny that it was very impressive to witness
(j such, things thus written on the authority of such
names, and under the absolute certainty that the
u communications came, direct and unadulterated, at
)| least from spirits, whether they were in very deed
(| those particular spirits or not. Either they were
)\ those they purported to be or they were deceptive
(| and lying spirits; with which latter supposition the
[j whole tone and apparent holy and religious animus
( j of all that passed were scarcely reconcilable.
At one of these seances, having asked whether
“Glaubus” was present, and being told that he was,
I beofffed him to write me how Count de Bullet now
was, as he had recently been seriously ill. I found
/| written On the paper in the box, “The Count is in
|| better health.—G.”
On a former occasion at a materialisation stance in
(j New York, with Mrs. Bliss as the medium, Shortly
If after reading in The Spiritualist that the Count
(j was seriously ill, I was told by spirit, voices, “The
|| Count is mdeh betterand again, “Your friend is
|{ very comfortable this evening.” These responses
: | were to inquiries I had addressed, in the one case to
I John King, said to be present, and in the other to
H another spirit, of whom I asked if she would not go
) | to Paris and learn how he was. About half an hour
(i afterwards, when I had despaired of getting a reply,
j i the answer was given me as above.
A curious point before I conclude this subject.
{! There were two communications (the one on the paper,
(! the other on the slate), which were in unintelligible
|| Oriental languages. The one of them was in three
)j distinct paragraphs and handwritings or characters,
|j and they were in response to an inquiry respecting
)| certain writings of many centuries ago. When I
u asked for some interpretation of them, it was written
M. % 1880. THE SPIRIT
on thii paper in English and without signature: | (
“Very ancient spirits come toapprbve of * * * spirits |)
of the seventh sphere announce to you, etc/’ [ K
The other Oriental communication filled the whole |)
of the slate. Some three or four lines ran transversely, j (
and beneath them were written three lines up and j)
down, after the Chinese fashion. As this ivsis unin- j<
telligible, and as I could hot preserve it, it
was expunged to use the slate again — which j|
I now regret. It was then followed by another; j;
ecjhally unintelligible, hilt consisting of only a j\
single word, presumed to be a name, which also had
to be expunged. But on my begging that some other \(
spirit would get the sense from the spirit writers and d
give it in English, there was then written: “Car- |(
iimus (as I copied it, though the name, was very j)
illegible) sends greeting to Mr. S., and wishes him to i)
go for a sitting to-morrow afternoon with Mrs. Bliss.” ||
On my then asking whether that name “Carlimus” j|
was correct, it \VaS written “ Calaunus, a friend of j)
ConfuciuS.” This was curious. It explained the ||
Chinese up-and-down portion of writing. At this j(
seance I had asked for the presence of a certain j|
Portuguese spirit, an old friend, from whom the ||
editor of Mind and Matter had the day before ]|
shown me, and reqxiested me to translate acommuni- u
cation in Portuguese, given through Mrs. Bliss in Feb- | j
ruary, 1878. I presumed, therefore, that that spirit, |(
having once before entered into rapport with |)
Mrs. Bliss, found himself unable to do so easily K
with another medium, and that, therefore, I was \j
referred hack to Mrs. Bliss. His presence there (at ]|
Gordon’s) had been announced by strong raps in ;)
response to my questions, but it seemed that he was j l
not able to write. Of the result of the stance which fi
I accordingly held with Mrs. Bliss I shall not speak i|
further in the present letter. It was very curious j)
and interesting. K
Space and time do not pernnt my relating other | (
splendid manifestations'I witnessed at Mr. Gordon’s. K
At two public materialisation stances, numerous |)
spirits came forth into the room, ht one of them as j)
many as twenty-eight. Many of these were recbg- l(
nised by the other persons present. I only recognised q
positively a brother of mine, and also “John King,” j)
These appeared only at the window of the cabinet, ! >
but I was called up close to see them. My brother U
was unequivocal, arid I was again summoned up to ||
see him a Second time. In regard to the other, I ||
said: “Hb looks very like John King, only he has [j
no beard.” Immediately the spirit nodded to me, K
and applying his hand to his chin, stroked it jj
downward, and under each stroke the familiar [j
black beard grew, longer and longer and broader if
until the “John King” I had seen hundreds ol" times ||
in Paris, apd vvhom we had thete ourselves photo- |)
graphed floating in the air, yms then before hie K
beyond question or doubt.
Two other spirits who came out, and acted with ||
characteristic affectionateness, assented by bowing to j.|
my presumptibh as to who they wete, but I had |
no distinct vibw of their features, as they were be- 11
tween me and the very low light which was in a |!
corner of the room.' One of them, claiming to lie j )
my mother, laid her hands on my head, and again |\
took my face between them, and on my asking her ! /
UALIBT. P,
to make her accustomed sign to me she- made that
of the cross oh my face. She also knelt before me
and raised her blrisped hands fls though in prayer.
I cannot say I could identify her face, which I
could hot sufficiently see, but I believe it to have
been her.
Mr. Gordon, during my stay, frequently passed
into trance, in which state he delivered some of
the most beautiful utterances I have ever heard;
all of a veiy devbut and elevated character. On
orie of these occasions, veiy late at night, he de¬
livered three exquisite poems, all illustrative of the
imrhortality of the soul—the one on the idea of the
flower springing up out of the dead and buried seed,
the nbxt on that of the butterfly from the worm, and
the third on that of the bird, weary and storm-tossed,
and finding a resting-place on the twig, which, how¬
ever, yields bene'ath it, but on which—
“ Still it sings,
Because it knows that it has wings.”
The only two persons present were electrified by
the beauty and charm of these poems, which were
eritirely extemporaneous, the emblem, the butterfly
(pSyche), having been suggested by myself after the
close of the first poem. We both extremely regretted
that there was no stenographer present to preserve
these exquisite poems.
New York, Dec. 12th, 1879.
GBASPING A BEAL APPABITION.
Ouk Nova Scotian correspondent lias forwarded
us the following additional deposition (see No. 879
of The Spiritualist) about the grasping of an appa¬
rition at Shubenacadie : the original document is in
our possession for preservation.
COMPARED COPY OF DAVID BELL’S DECLARATION.
I, David Bell, of Shubenacadie, in the county of
Hants, arid province of Nova Scotia,, but at present
residing at Mr. William Sharp’s, near the town of
Windsor, in the county and province aforesaid, mill¬
wright, do solemnly declare that having heard
rumours that the • old house near said William
Sharp’s was haunted, and also having myself heard
curious noises there, and having no faith in any
spiritual origin to account for them, .1, about seven
years ago, induced a coloured man, named Thomas
Tyne's, who theri and now works for Mr. Sharp (and
who having been into Windsor, and partaken some¬
what of spirituous liquors, was full of Dutch courage),
to go into the old house, and dare the ghost which he
alleged had previously appeared to him. He did so,
and I accompanied him to the old house, which is not
more than three or four rods from Mr. Sharp’s resi¬
dence. I stopped outside, and held the door after he
went in, and I heard him daring the supposed ghost
to come on, calling it by the name he imagined it
bore on earth—a woman’s name—and stating that
he could handle it. He had not been in the old
house more than five minutes when I heard a
noise, something like a clinch, and the voice of
TyrieS pitifully calling out to the ghost to “ let
huh go this time, and he’d never bother or say
anything more about tier.” Then he ran to get out,
but I held the door, as it was all a joke to me, and I
did not comprehend or believe that he was in trouble
10 THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 2. 1880.
with a ghost. He begged me hard to let him out, |
but I encouraged him to go back and have another |)
tussle, and held the door fast against him, and told |
him that “ if he gave her up this time he would never ||
have any chance to live with her round there; ” so ||
he went into the large east room again, and I heard j
again a greater noise than before,- and a sound of ij
some one falling on the floor heavily, and imme- i
diately upon the fall, Tynes cried out, “ She’s got me | (
down,” and I sung out, “ Stick to her, Tommy; don’t |
give her up; you can handle her.” Tynes halloed |\
a good deal, and coming to the door, terribly ||
frightened and out of breath, implored me to let him I (
out. I did so. His strength appeared to have all j)
gone from him, and he was then the whitest coloured- I (
man I ever saw. This event happened in the fall of i
the year, about seven o’clock in the evening. I was j \
puzzled to account for Tynes’ experience in the old |l
house, the noises I heard like a clinch in wrestling, | \
his fall and evident terror, and accordingly I sug- |)
gested to my friend, William Sharp, that we should n
go into the old house and investigate the matter, and R
find out what the noises proceeded from, if possible. I j
I was in Prince Edward Island when William Sharp’s |(
declaration was made in this matter ; but I have just i
read his declaration in The Spiritualist of the 28th !
of November last, and his account of what transpired j)
in the old house on the night to which he refers is
perfectly correct. It was in the neighbourhood, at |j
twelve o’clock midnight, when we took up our posi- j|
tion in the east room that night. It was pretty dark |>
in the room, but I saw the tall figure in consequence j(
of its being clothed in white when it first came into j|
the room. I immediately saw some sort of a struggle jl
between Mr. Sharp and the figure. He was unsuc- j)
cessful in holding it, and as it was passing me I j)
seized it round the neck. It appeared to be off the §
floor a little, moving through the air. I could hear n
no footsteps. I had a good grip of it, and never was \\
more astonished in my life when I found I could not n
hold it, and I cannot describe how the substance I k
grasped felt. The lower part of the window sash in K
the north corner of the room was out, and it made for j)
that, appearing to be floating kite-fashion. I was \\
determined to make a final effort to arrest this strange j)
creature, and rushed to the window and seized its R
foot. It was half way out of the window, the body k
or shape being slanting, as if it were going up in the |y
air. I thought I had wrenched its foot off (as I k
plainly felt the foot in my hand), as the figure ap- jiy
peared to give a wrench to get away from me; but j;(
almost instantly I found, to my great astonishment, I;
that I had nothing in my hand. I was then in the j(
prime of manhood, and weighed over two hundred | j
pounds. I did not then believe in ghosts, and H
was not troubled with any superstitious fears; I )
and if this was not a spirit that we seized that night j <
I do not know what else it could possibly be. The j|
form appeared to be that of a woman. I am not a j (
Spiritualist, and never attended a Spiritualist meeting \)
of any kind, and am always collected in my thoughts, j (
having been a total abstainer all my life from intoxi- |)
eating liquors ; and I make this solemn declaration, j\
conscientiously.believing the same to be true, and by j)
virtue of the Act of the Parliament of Canada, passed I \
in the thirty-seventh year of her Majesty’s reign,
intituled If An Act for the suppression of voluntary
and extra-judicial oaths.”
Declared at Windsor aforesaid, I
the fifteenth day of December, ! p. -p T
one thousand eight hundred f
and seventy-nine. J
Before me, George H. King,
Notary Public.
Be it known and made manifest unto all people that on the
fifteenth day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-nine, I, George H. King, notary
public, duly authorised, admitted, and sworn, residing and prac¬
tising in Windsor, in the county of Hants, and province of Nova
Scotia, in the dominion of Canada, do hereby certify that David
Bell, the person named in the foregoing paper, writing, or
declaration, did duly and solemnly declare in due form of law to
the truth thereof, on the day of the date hereof, and that the
name “David Bell” thereto subscribed is of the proper hand¬
writing of the said David Bell.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto subscribed my
name, and affixed my seal of office.
(Signed) Geoege H. King,
Notary Public.
A STRANGE ADVENTURE OF MARSHAL
McMAHON.
The following strange story has been published
in The New York World, also in The Catholic
Mirror (Baltimore, September 13th, 1879), and in
The Theosophist (Bombay, December 1st, 1879).
Perhaps some of our readers in France and in
Algiers will inquire into the authenticity of the
narrative:—
Sir,—One day, when talking with a well-known
man in London, the subject of Spiritualism came up.
Referring to the late Emperor Napoleon’s belief in
the great delusion of the day, my friend told me that
he was once at a grand dinner in Paris, at which
many notables were present, and the following
incident occurred. A member of the Imperial Court
was telling about Mr. D. D. Home’s exploits at the
Tuileries ; how that in his presence a table was
caused to float from the floor to the ceiling with the
Emperor seated upon it, and by no visible power;
and other similar tales. When the gentleman had
finished, Marshal McMahon, who was present, said,
“ That reminds me of an experience of mine, which
was as follows :—It was when I was a sub-officer in
Algiers that the affair I am about to speak of took
place. The men of my command were mostly
natives, and we had been much troubled by the large
number of deaths and mysterious disappearances
which had taken place among them, and we had
taken great pains to find out the causes, but were
unable to do so. I had understood that the men
were given to the practice of necromancy and the
worship of strange gods. Indeed, I had myself seen
many remarkable feats performed by them, and it
was therefore no great surprise to me when an old
sergeant, who had heard me express my intention to
ferret out the mysteries, came to me, in a timid
manner, and suggested that it was generally believed
by the soldiers that a certain corporal coaid tell
more about them than any one else if he chose. This,
corporal I had noticed as a man who did his duty
perfectly, but had little or nothing to say to any one,
and always went about alone. He was from the
interior of Africa, tall, gaunt, with long, clear-cut
11
Jan. 2, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
features of remarkably stern expression, and the most
remarkable eyes I ever beheld. Indeed, it was not
extraordinary that he should be said to have ‘ the
evil eye,’ for if any one ever possessed that power it
was he.
“ Bent on finding out the mysteries, I sent for the
corporal, and told him that I had understood that
he could tell me about them, and that he must do it.
At first he appeared confused, and began to mutter
to himself, finally saying he knew nothing about the
matter; but when I, putting on my sternest look,
told him that I knew he could make an explanation,
and that, xmless he did so, I would have him
punished, he drew himself up, and giving me a long
and penetrating look, said that being punished
would make no difference to him, but that, if I
was so anxious to know the mysteries, I must go
with him alone to a certain place at midnight,
when the moon was in the third quarter, if I had
courage enough to do so, without telling any one of
my object or trip, and that then he would show me
the causes of the deaths and disappearances; other¬
wise, he would tell me nothing, punish him as I
might. Without acceding to or refusing his strange
request I dismissed him, and, pondering on his pro¬
posal, I walked towards the mess. The place the
corporal had mentioned was a clump of half a dozen
trees, situated about three-quarters of a mile
outside of our lines on the edge of the desert. At
first I was inclined to think that it was a plot to rob
or murder me, and my impulse was to think no
more of it; accordingly I told the officers at the
mess, and various was the advice I received, some to
go and some not. However, on thinking the
matter over, I resolved not to appear afraid to go at
any rate ; so,, after having quietly examined the spot
to see if there were any pitfalls or chances for
ambush, and finding the ground smooth and solid,
and no chance for approach in any direction without
discovery, I resolved to go, and, sending for the
corporal, told him my intention of accepting his
proposal. As he turned away, I noticed his eyes gleam
with almost fiendish delight, which was not calculated
to reassure me. On the appointed night I started
out with him, and nothing was said by either until
we' reached the spot; here his manner suddenly
changed, and from the subdued and almost servile
bearing of the soldier became stern and authoritative.
Then he ordered me to remove everything metallic
from my person; at this I felt sure that he had a
plan to rob me, but as I had gone too far to with¬
draw, and partly thinking it might be only a part of
his performance to require this, I accordingly took
off my sword, and my purse and watch from my
pockets, and hung them on a convenient branch,
thinking this would be enough ; but he insisted that
I must remove everything metallic, or all would be
in vain. I then took off everything except my
underclothing, and said all was gone. At this he
appeared pleased, and stripped himself entirely;
then, drawing a circle around himself on the ground,
he commanded me that, whatever should happen, I
should not venture within it.
“ He then said he was prepared, and would make
everything clear to me provided I said nothing and
did nothing. Then, naked as he was, standing on the
grass, he began a series of incantations, and standing
up straight in front of me, and looking mein the eye,
he suddenly became rigid, and as suddenly disap¬
peared like a flash. Until then the moon was
shining brightly around, and his form stood out clear-
cut against the sky ; but as I rubbed my eyes to look
it suddenly became dark, and a clap of thunder
sounded, after which it became clear again, and as it
did so a column of smoke arose from where the man
had stood. This gradually resolved itself, strange to
say, into the man himself, but he appeared trans¬
figured ; his face, which before was stern, had now
become fiendish and terrible, and his eyes flashed
fire. As I looked his gaze transfixed me, and my
hair began to rise. As his look continued I heard
screams as of agony, and his expression suddenly
changing to one of terror, he cried, pointing to my
breast, ‘ You have lied.’ As he said this there was
a flash of light with a loud report, and he again dis¬
appeared, and all was clear moonlight around.. As
he had pointed to my breast, I involuntarily put my
hand up, and felt a little leaden medal of the
Virgin under my shirt, which I had quite forgotten
when removing my clothes. Almost thunderstruck
with the whole scene, seeing no man visible, and
fearing then an attack, I rushed to the tree where
my things were, I seized my sword, and was
astonished to find it so hot that I could hardly hold
it. Calling aloud the man’s name, I ran quickly
around the clump of trees, and looked in vain in
every direction for him. The moon was then shining
brightly, and any dark figure running or lying down
could easily be seen on the light sand. Seizing my
clothes, I hastily pulled them on, and ran as fast as
I could to the barracks. At once I called out the
guard, and, mounting myself, gave orders to scour the
country in every direction, and bring every one found
to me. But it was all in vain, for after hours search¬
ing no trace could be found of any one, and all I had
for my pains was that the men, surprised at my
sudden appearance and strange orders, simply sup¬
posed that I had become temporarily insane. I said
nothing, however, and the next day after roll-call
the corporal was reported absent. I had search
quietly made for him for some time, but he has never
turned up from that day tb this.” Silence reigned
for some time at that table; various dignified heads
were scratched, and quizzical expressions assumed.
Finally the silence was broken by the question,
“ How do you account for it, Marshal ? ” The
Marshal quietly smiled, and said, “ I don’t account for
it.” “And your watch?” said another gentleman.
“Ah,” replied the Marshal, “that is what I consider
the most remarkable thing. The next day when I
went back to the place I not only found my watch
and the remainder of my things, but the corporal’s
things were also there, and the whole place seemed
undisturbed.” E. B.
TO CORKESPONDENTS.
G.—As already stated, we are not going to widen the area of the correspond¬
ence on the question Mr. Massey has raised about Mr. Fletcher, by printing
letters from any one but the principals, who have ceased to write on the sub¬
ject. The question is a very simple one. Mr. Fletcher says that on hearing
Spiritualism had been rendered hateful and contemptible in this country by
an American medium, he “at once” resolved to come over, Ac. Mr.
Fletcher arrived in England in the spring of. 1877, and if at that date Spirit¬
ualism was suffering in public estimation from any recent scandal, there can
be no reason for withholding the name of themedium to whom he has referred,
and we are quite willing to print it if accompanied by reference to already
published facts. Up to this time Mr, Fletcher has not sent the name,
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
oa
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late "Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.B.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism. ‘ '
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free
CONTENTS
CH APT Eft I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER Its—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—^Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy — Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force Or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &e., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Traiisference Of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State^-Dr. Darling’s Method ahd it's Rffecth—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s. Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied;
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M, Cahagnet’s
Extatics—-Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII.—Phrenp-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Oases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes t}ie Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
• - Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomepa Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
■Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestioh—-Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
MagiQ.
CHAPTER XIII:—Protection-of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric SleCp—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: >Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Sirigular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XVTrance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—^Predictions
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 83, British Museum-street, London,
INFQRMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, ga§, and Cralileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated' the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and1 that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Scien?:, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. E. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner,and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue bj the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all G-reat Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying1 simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed- according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena :—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table; with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is 'well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ,‘ he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message % ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, sjich as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by'their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of. messages than they are forced to' do by
undeniable proof,
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Jan. 2, 1880.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WOELC ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE. '
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting 'punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Bin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrpng-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Mafia-lane, E.C.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Eed Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena Observed at seances by the author,
and a clbse criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
"P ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
JLi/ OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of Self-recording and other
instruments, the reality pf some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 83, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for Ijd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
■DAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN-
JLU GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the ’current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
TDRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCLL
JL> TIO,FT, OF SPIRITUALISTS, 3.8, Groat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries.1 For terms,
information as fo stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m, to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each ; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., Care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossoniere, Paris,. .  
nPHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL bides t j ournal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager ;
Luther Colby, editor ■; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embi’acing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price3s. Cd. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free-
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection 6f choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of .articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
L—“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death." Givefa
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
_VII.—An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. -.
IX—Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author Of 'The Life Of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Givbn through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon;"
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVTII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrahd).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief fOr the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady Of Kainhato By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXlI.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. ---The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism! By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Pfofundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By O. Carter Blake, Doc, Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVIL—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Sdance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C Maurice Davids, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Eiinesfallen).
XXXVII. — Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychih
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIIL—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author Of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics," awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London; W.C.
iil
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
Contents.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions :— The Materialisation ;of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons; the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume,! and Ferdinand Jenckeh—Spirit Form,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N. Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. 'Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—DeS-
caftes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg
ProOfs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony df S
O. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Sehses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VlJI.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her Own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. C. Luxmore; Mrs. Boss-Church, Miss Kislihgbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. 0. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby,
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr! Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XL—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec —' Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—ChaHes Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The-Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life'—-
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Yoysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
CHAPTER XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations'—The Facts and
Inferences'—Concluding Reflections*.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. '
Price 6s. 6d,
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS PBOM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XlV. Thfe
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare —XVI
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXL Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII, Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—-XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.O.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 6, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1880.
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
ph.ristm.as Padding,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Eipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
■ Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
STIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SaLT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
Ihe Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c„ use
MO’S EMIT SAIT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
Fagged, weary, and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
t'> undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which h e did, an d received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try END’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new In-
IO vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked ''ENO'S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. cM.and 4s. 6<t.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SAIsT WORKS,
Hatcham) London, S.E.
CHRISTMAS APPEAL TO
SPIRITUALISTS.
The Committee formed to promote a Testimonial to
Dr. Monck commend his ca.se as one eminently claim¬
ing your generosity at this time of the year, when gifts
and benevolence are peculiarly appropriate.
As one of the pioneers of our beliefs he has ex¬
pended health and all his resources in devotion to the
Cause. For nearly two years he has been cared for by
kind friends, who have thereby earned the lasting
thanks of Spiritualists ; and to enable Dr. M. to return
to the work still so dear to him, it is necessary to sus¬
tain him for the winter in a warmer climate. If all
unite heartily there will be no difficulty, and the
Master’s benediction will be yours.
“ Inasmuch as ye did it to the least of these little
ones ye did it unto Me.”
Smallest contributions will be equally welcomed as
those whose larger means enable them to give more
largely. They should be sent to ihe Hon. Secretary of
the Committee, whose names were announced in the
Spiritualist of 28th November.
Moreul Theobald.
62, Granville-park, Blackheath.
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun, Lucerne   10 0 0
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston   10 0 0
William Tebb, Esq., Albert-road  5 5 0
W. P. Adshead, Esq., Belper    5 5 0
H.R.H. Prince G     5 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square 5 0 0
F. G. S. for ditto..    2 2 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.   2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P  2 2 0
W. Pemberton Turner, Esq  2 2 0
Morell Theobald, Esq.    2 2 0
F. M., Esq       2 0 0
J. Swinburne, Esq    10 0
R. Carrall    030
Miss Douglas, S. Audley-street  10 0
Dr. Blunt, Northampton  0 5 0
J. Thompson. Newcastle  0 10 0
Friends for Mr. McKinney  0 7 6
W. Brown, Esq., Burnley      1 1 0
A. Todd, Esq., Peebles   10 0
R. Gessler, Esq., Basle.....    10 0
Dr. Stowell, Brighton      1 1 0
Dr. Johnson, Ambleside  0 5 0
Price Five Shillings. Crown Svo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON. ,
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Q-raphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISME,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
OR, THE TWO CLEYER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and Ws assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
December, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Spiritualism in some of its Religious Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Principal
Tulloch on Table-rapping: Dr. Nichols—Voices from
the Ages; the Alchemists and their Teachings: P.
Davidson—Philosophical Spiritualism: G. R. Tapp—
The Pocasset Tragedy: J. W. F.—A Catholic Faith.
LONDON: E, W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane.
GLASGOW HAY Nisbet & Co. >52 Ropework-lane.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
the "Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . 7 6
The Teacher. ,, II. » ■ • , 7. 6
The Seek. „ III. '.ip’ ' • . 7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . 7 6
The Thinker. ■ ,; V. , .'.76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or j Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . . . . , . 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . .' . . .76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . 2 6
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . 3 0
Morning Lectures .... .76
The Spiritmlist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSGBOFT, Manager
Southampton- uildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BI R K B E C K B A N K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Or. Svo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
Professor Zdllner’s New Volume   1
Correspondence:—Mr. J. A. Campbell’s Letters ... 3
The Banshee in Dr. Kenealy’s Family  3
A National Anthem Given by Inspiration   4
A Curious Prophecy    5
New Year’s Eve     6
The Psychological Society    6
Psychography Extraordinary. By the Hon. J. L.
O’Sullivan, Formerly American Minister at the
Court of Portugal     7
Grasping a Real Apparition    9
A Strange Adventure of Marshal McMahon  10
To Correspondents  11
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holborn Printing Works, FullwoOd’s Renta
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above.
Bar and St. George the Martyr, Lon Ion , and pub*
lished by E- W. Alleh, Ave Maria-lane, Louden
E.C
