Rsgisterud as a Newspaper,
ax® jotf^X^i< ^^YdSo^o^ida^ ^diXXC'^.
SfellliW SpxntwEBsm m <&xmt §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regulariy on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines,. and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: a, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via.del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Rugsell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-'street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 270. (VOL. XL—No. 17.) LONDON: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Renewal of Activity in Spiritualism    193
Slate-Writing Phenomena. By Epes Sargent  193
The Mediumship of Great Reformers. By Eugene
Crowell, M.D.    193
Legal Interference with Liberty of Opinion:—The “White
Witch"    ...  194
A Methodist Preacher’s Vision   195
Death Warnings said to be Given by Dogs 195
Seance at Manchester. By Charles Blackburn  ... 195
Mesmerism. By Captain John James 196
The British National Association of Spiritualists: —
Seances for Inquirers 197
Speculations on the Doctrine of Reincarnation 198
Isis Unveiled 198
Examples of the Healing Power of Mesmerism 198
The Materialisation of a Spirit Watched 198
Poetry:—That “Flutter’’—Time to Go—“So Near, and
yet So Far ’’    200
Correspondence :—A Curious Seance in Malvern—Charity
Organisation—Provincial Notes, No. 3—Spiritualism
in Ireland—Spiritualism in Blackburn—Methodists
and Mesmerism in Hackney—Materialisation of Spirit
Heads and Spirit Photographs in the Dark, No. 14-
Astrology— Mr. Morse’s Soiree—Reincarnation —
Slate-Writing Phenomena 200
Answers to Correspondents 204
Paragraphs:—Meetings in Birmingham, 193; Singular
Premonition of Death, 194 ; A Strange Legend,
194; Supposed Trance, 195; Spirit Presence, 195;
New Facts, 195 ; A Haunted House, 197; Spiritualism
at the Hague, 199 ; The Psychological Society of
Great Britian, 199; Spiritualism in Liverpool, 199;
Lectures at the Langham Hall, 199; Mr. and Miss
Dietz  ... ...      199
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of tin Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
BSTABUSHBD IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL_ oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
Admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;-,His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenherg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof. Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersourg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Scl., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Bdin.); Mr. J. O. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Ilonywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the "‘Life of Swedenborg"]; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
oury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles llUnited States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,lM.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents In the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London; 11, Ave. Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso.. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 28, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue.. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 819,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
SOIREES.
The first Soiree will be held on the 7th of November, and
will be a special entertainment with music and recitations.
Double tickets, 3s.; single tickets, 2s. each.
NEW MEMBERS.
Subscriptions paid before the end of the year by members
elected after this date will clear them up to the end of the year
1878.
EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
Chairman—Desmond G. Fitz-Geeald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E.
The Research Committee having expended the sums en¬
trusted to them, will be glad to receive subscriptions towards
the objects they have in view.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETING.
The Research Committee propose to resume the series of
Fortnightly Discussions at 38, Great Russell-street, on Monday,
November 12th, at 7.30 p.m., and to continue them on the
second and fourth Mondays of each month until further notice:
An announcement of papers promised will shortly be made.
W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Hon. Sec. of Committee.
SEANCES FOR ENQUIRERS.
Seances for Enquirers are held at 38, Great Russell-street,
at 8 p.m., every Wednesday (except the 7th of November, in¬
stead of which one will be held on the 6th or 9th). Medium,
Mr. C. E. Williams. Enquirers a.dmitted by free tickets on the
recommendation of a member, or by personal application to
the secretary. Members, with one friend, Is for each person.
Number limited to twelve.
INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS.
Mr. J. W. Colville gives an Inspirational Address gratis at
38, Great Russell-street, at 4 p.m., every Saturday. Subject
chosen by the audience. Questions invited. A poem, also on
a subject chosen by the audience, at the close. Admisssion
to members and friends, Is. each.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &e., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Oommunications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
October 10th, 1877.  A. JOY, Acting Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, L0tTGHB0R0XJGH-R0AD-NORTH, BRIXTON.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &o., &o., apply
to—
 H. E. FRANCES, HON. Sbo.
LANGHAM HALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London. W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjeols chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved, Is. 
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G, Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, <
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
THE FOURTH SESSION
Will commence on Thursday, 1st November, 1877, at 8.30 p.m.,
when the President will deliver his usual Opening Address.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
 Wiilesden, N.W. 
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE SOUL, AND HOW IT FOUND ME ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
 Tinsley Brothers, Publishers, ■
HyORKS BY THE COUNTESS OP CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Just published, price 4d.
LAIRY0YANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince's Salon, and the Duke's Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable,
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London. 
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms 18o, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &o., &o.;
post free, seven stamps. ■  
BIREBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 80, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.'
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENS0R0FT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 26, 1877,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF .
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President,
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents^
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mvs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Eitz-Qerald, Desmond Q., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborongh-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Einchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd.. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, P. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Conk, Mrs. K, 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Pabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. II., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
M. A. Antlielme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Yienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.', H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. It. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.iHallock,.54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallocfc,'54, Denbigh-strbet, Be!grave-r.Qad._S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Yico del Yasto, Palazzo del Yasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Yienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 53, Ligdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London; E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola.. Cervantes 84, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
o. vv.
Glendinning. A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N .
StrUwbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withalt, Miss H.. 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, XL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, SW.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq, H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soon as Mrs. “W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolner, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi,' Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, marshall & Co.
ORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinslby Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & CO VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha aBahdjd Capoussou,
Gonstantinople.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Yay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantine Delkez, Ween, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton,Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimiile, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich, London Spirit-
ualist Office. 
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Gffloe, London. 
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Gonstant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Growell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Glavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. htora^ Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Yemon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J. M. Suear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstan«s;Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierr#, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeek, Brussels
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.    
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris, Post-Office orders payable
to M, Loymario.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
, 61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above. 
SPIRITUAL HEALING
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQ., LONDON, W.O.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment in first instance by letter; terms as per
agreement.  
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANOE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. HonorC,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E. 
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free. .
\Y
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
 71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develops mediums.
PSYCHOMETRY.—For delineation of cha¬
racter and information on development consult (if by
letter enclose photo and 10s. 6d. as fee) Mr. J. Skipsey, Ash-
ington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland.
MR. J. COATES, the mesmerist, is about to
visit Ireland, calling at Belfast, Dublin, Cork, and
intermediate places en route. He will undertake the treat¬
ment of patients directly or under medical supervision; also
give sittings for the development of clairvoyance. Persons
desiring a visit will please write him at his address, 12, Lime-
street, Liverpool.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT-
UALISTS.
MUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
eight-aired, and in good condition, to be RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to be disposed of. Application to be made at once to the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ’’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’ ’
HE FOOD THAT WE LIVE ON. In-
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office,
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This boob, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religions aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London,
VotujviE Eleven. Kumber Seyenteejm.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26th, 1877.
KENEWAL OF ACTIVITY IN SPIRITUALISM. - f
Now that the dead season is drawing to a close, there are I
signs of renewed activity in Spiritualism, in London. Many i
Spiritualists have returned to town; private seances are on j)
the increase; inquiries on the part of disbelievers are more |
numerous at the rooms of the National Association of i
Spiritualists, and the fortnightly meetings and monthly |)
soirees oi the Association will soon recommence. With the I s
experience of the past, it is to be hoped that Spiritualists | \
will not in future worry mediums and themselves by trying |)
to force belief upon persons opposed to the facts and not |
prepared to receive them; let attention be given only to | j
candid inquirers who come earnestly asking for information. |
As to the rest of the outside public, scattering among them j
broadcast instructions how to form spirit circles at home, |
will make more converts at one-fiftieth the cost in time, |
trouble, work, and money, than any other mode of prose- j
lytising, with the further advantage that all contention about I
the new phenomena thus developed will be among the j
sceptics themselves, since they cannot annoy Spiritualists j
about facts transpiring in their own homes at which | <
no Spiritualist is present. If these suggestions be attended j!
to, the movement will progress with much less friction. I ]
The Research Committee of the National Association of j'
Spiritualists has some useful work in hand. It has mounted |!
a cabinet on a weighing machine, to ascertain what varia- j
tions in the weight of mediums take place during the oc¬
currence of certain manifestations. It also has the manage¬
ment of the fortnightly meetings, which will soon begin
again, so the movement is much indebted to the members
of this committee for their energy. If written monthly re¬
ports, passed by the whole committee with a view to publi¬
cation, were read at each Council meeting, it would increase
the interest of such meetings, at which of late scarcely any |
subject of public moment has received attention. Perhaps
also the Library Committee might give exhaustive monthly
reports relating to the literature of Spiritualism throughout
the world, and the work it has done in connection therewith. I
SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENA.
BY EPE8 SAEGENT.
Professor William Denton, an Englishman, and a I
thoroughly sincere and experienced investigator, writes me [
under date of September 27th, 1877, as follows :—
“ I have a slate in my possession containing a message
written in the presence of Mr. Watkins, and signed £ R. Dale j
Owen,’ which I am quite sure was not written by any one in
the body. The slate on which it was written was perfectly
clean ; a second slate, also clean, was laid upon it; a frag¬
ment of pencil between the two, and, while the writing was
being done, I held my hand upon it the whole time. I
showed the slate, at the Lake Pleasant camp meeting, to |
thousands, many of whom had received messages, simi- j
larly written, through Mr. Watkins.
“ Such evidence demonstrates beyond cavil the existence
of unseen intelligences who understand our language. They
invariably profess to be our departed friends ; they write as
we might expect those friends to write, and I know of no
good reason why we should not receive their testimony.”
Confirmations similar to the above can be got by hundreds.
Boston, U.S.A., Sept. 30th.
Meetings in Birmingham.—On Sunday evening next, October 28th,
at half-past six o’clock, Mr. Morse will deliver a trance address at Mr.
Groom’s, 166, St. Vincent-street, Ladywood, Birmingham, to Spirit¬
ualists and their friends. He will deliver another at Mr. Sunder¬
land’s, Bull-street, Birmingham, at eight o’clock on Monday evening,
the 29th, I
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF GREAT REFORMERS.*
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
The great majority of those who have been acknowledged
leaders in great religious and reform movements, have had
direct intercourse through one or more of its varied channels
with the spirit-world, either through visions or trances, clair¬
voyance or clairaudience, or through spirit impression. Such
was the case with Abraham, Moses, Jesus Christ, Paul,
Mohammed, Joan of Arc, Luther, Calvin, Ignatius Loyola,
George Fox, Swedenborg, and Wesley. As Mr. Howitt
remarks : “To call a man a great religious reformer, is the
same as calling him a great spiritual medium. Without
this mediumship, this communication intimate and enduring
with the spiritual world, with the Holy Spirit and His holy
angels, a man can reform nothing; he is a dead thing, and
cannot emit new life and sentiment to the world.”
Under the directing—sometimes controlling—influence of
spiritual intelligences, both religious and moral reformers
are occasionally impelled to courses, the objects and aims of
I which not being apparent to ordinary minds, appear to be
erratic, unguided, and ill calculated to accomplish useful
purposes. These spiritual instrumentalities being misunder¬
stood, are invariably persecuted by the world when struggling,
| and are as generally applauded by it when success has
| crowned their efforts. Thus Wesley, who in his early
struggles was termed by a magistrate who fined him £20,
J “ the vagrant, itinerant Methodist preacher,” in his later
| years, when his teachings had been accepted by numerous
j followers, was almost universally honoured and respected by
j the Church, and by the civil authorities that had persecuted
I him.
The Church frowns upon these reformers as disturbers of
its peace, and exercises its power and influence to crush
them, in ignorance that in so doing it sometimes is refusing
entertainment to angels, who through them would infuse
| new life into its system. In this spirit women are excluded
I from participation in the ministry of religion, forgetful that
II holy spiritual influences flow into their minds at least as
11 freely as into those of men. In the days of the apostles
11 and the early Christians spiritual influence had free course
• I through all those adapted to its reception, male and female
11 alike ; but when the Church became associated with the
11 political power, and materialistic minds controlled it and
> shaped its course and policy, known mediums were excluded
| from ministration in its assemblies, and women were pro¬
hibited from speaking in public. Since then it has been
customary in the Church to permit none but men, formally
authorised, to instruct the people, and with our experience
and knowledge of the effective teachings of many inspired
I women in our day, it can readily be perceived what a loss
| the Church and the world have sustained by this prohibition,
| for by it have been excluded thousands who were better
; fitted to convey spiritual truths with clearness and force
than perhaps the majority of those regularly installed.
The Church has thus rejected a powerful means of reach-
> ing the minds of the people, but the spirit of the age, and
| the success that Spiritualism has met with from the assist-
| ance of women teachers, is working a change in the Church
sentiment upon this subject, and I have no doubt that with
s the next generation, female teachers and preachers will fill
| pulpits in every Protestant denomination. Dean Howson,
| who recently visited this country, is of the opinion that the
i work of converting the heathen must be largely done by
11 women, and he finds in the practice that prevailed in the
i assemblies of the apostles, warrant for the admission of
j women to ofiScial positions in the Church to-day.
| It seems to be only just and proper that as women com-
I pose the majority of our religious congregations, there should
(i . * From Primitive Christianity and Modem Spiritualism:.
194
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 26, 1877.
be some pulpits in which their spiritual natures could find | j
expression, and whatever objection may have been urged | |
against woman’s teaching in bygone days, on account of her 11 j
inferior education, cannot be valid now, as her education is j j
as broad, liberal, and varied as that of man. The argument |||
of past ages, founded upon woman’s enforced ignorance, can ! j
have no validity when her right to educational privileges is |||
admitted by all but the most contracted and illiberal minds. |)|
LEGAL INTERFERENCE WITH LIBERTY OF OPINION. | |
Inquiries into the occult sciences are beset with danger, j I
because of the straining of Acts of Parliament to punish | |
people who conscientiously believe themselves to be innocent. H
In the following case, for instance, brought before the ju
Devonshire Michaelmas sessions last week, there is no ij
evidence that all the parties concerned did not act, however I
ignorantly, in good faith. Why, then, should anybody be ]
punished, especially at a period when intelligent men think
that astrology should be re-examined, to see whether it con¬
tains a substratum of truth. The fact that orthodox science
taboos it utterly, is a point in its favour, because we all
know that most scientific authorities are utterly ignorant and
untrustworthy in all their utterances about the easily verifi- j
able phenomena of Spiritualism. A Mrs. Tranter was sen- i
fenced some time back to five years' imprisonment for pro- ! I
fessing to be able to find lost property, yet the power to | |
find lost property by clairvoyance has actually in some cases j I
been exhibited by sensitives, and the question whether I I
Mrs. Tranter possessed genuine power was not brought up I !
at the trial. Why does not the Council of the British j |
National Association of Spiritualists draw the attention of ! !
the Home Office to these things, and point out the wrongs j j
to which mediums are liable to be subjected by law? It is ! !
time it took up some question of public interest. j j
The following is quoted from the Western Times (Exeter) ! j
of October 18 th :— ] j
THE “ WHITE WITCH.” j | !
John Harper v. Justices of Southmolton Division.—Mr. Pitt- (j
Lewis and Hon. C. Vivian appeared for the appellant; Mr. St. Aubyn j
and Mr. Pinkett for the justices. j |
Mr. St. Aubyn, in stating the case, said the respondent was Supt. 11
Wood, of the County Police. The facts of the case were these. In j i
consequence of some evidence given before Mr. Toller, the deputy !
coroner, who held an inquest on the body of Elizabeth Sanders* who (j
died on August 7th, the appellant was summoned before the magistrates, j I
under the 5th George IV., an Act for the punishment of idle and dis- (|
orderly persons, and those who used certain subtle means and devices j i
by palmistry or otherwise to deceive or impose upon her Majesty’s j
subjects. The poor woman who died was the wife of a cattle dealer in jj |
North Devon. She had for some time been seriously ill of what he j
should prove to have been chronic bronchitis, and had been attended J! j
for sometime by Mr. E. Furse, surgeon. On the 4th of August he was . j
of opinion that her case was hopeless. That opinion turned out to be j > j
correct, for very shortly afterwards she died. However, some few days jj
before her death her husband, having heard of the supposed power of I j j
the appellant, who was well known in the neighbourhood of South- l)j
molton as a quack doctor, sent for him. He came, and then followed a j j!
chain of circumstances showing the prevalence of an extraordinary j
amount of superstition in North Devon. When the appellant first !jj
came to the house he inquired as to the date and hour of the birth of j (j
the woman, and under what planet she was bom. ) I
Earl Devon : Did she know ? j j
Mr. St. Aubyn could not say, but at any rate certain answers were j j
given. After receiving the information he prescribed some powder j |
which was thought to have a wonderful charm, and he took from his j j
pocket a number of iron rods, the ends of which were wrapped in (i
parchment, and on the parchment were written the names of Jupiter, j j
Mars, Mercury, and other planets. He gave those rods to the woman, j
and some very curious effect was supposed to result. However, in the j
course of a few days the poor woman died, and in consequence of the ) |
evidence given before the Coroner proceedings were taken against the j j
appellant. When he visited the woman he appeared to have passed a J|j
considerable time in the house, he was liberally treated to rum and j j
water, cocoa, and various other refreshments, and he charged 25s. for \ j
his attendance. When proceeded against before the magistrates, various j I
objections were raised by his solicitor, but Harper was convicted, and. jj j
against that conviction he had appealed. (
Mr. Day, of the firm of Crosse and Day, clerk to the magistrates, i j j
said there were seven magistrates present at the hearing, and the j j j
appellant was convicted and sentenced to a month’s imprisonment. !(!
Hard labour was not imposed by the chairman, owing to the age of the j)!
man. On being cross-examined, the witness said in the copy of the ijj
conviction furnished, the words “hard labour” were inserted, as on j(i
referring to the Act it was found that there was no alternative in case I j j
of imprisonment. No notice was given the appellant’s solicitor that j j
this alteration had been made. i j |
The ease was proceeding, when the Chairman asked if this alteration I j i
of the conviction was not a material point ? [\ J
Mr. Pitt-Lewis said he was quite prepared to proceed on the merits,
but he should, of course, take any advantage he could of this when the
time came for judgment.
Mr. Bridges: But to proceed will be only taking up our time.
Mr. Pitt-Lewis : Of course, if the Court regards the objection in the
same light as I do, it is fatal. I will tell you candidly, however, that
I do not want to avoid the merits, because I have a case behind which
I do not want to give up.
Mr. St. Aubyn said he had brought on this point early because, of
course, if the Court was against him it would be no use going on with
the appeal. At the same time he called attention to 13 and 14 Vic.,
cap. 45, sec. 7, and asked whether the Court below had not power to
amend in the way they had.
The Chairman, after consultation, said the Court were of opinion that
the point raised was one upon which they had no power to act, and
therefore the conviction was bad on the face of it, and must be
quashed.
The appellant, who is eighty-three years of age, appears in his
younger days to have been a good deal connected with mines in the
neighbourhood of Combmartin, in the North of Devon, and he now
described himself as a mining proprietor. He, however, did a consider¬
able business as a herbalist or quack doctor, and was commonly known
as the ” White Witch ” of North Devon. In visiting patients he usually
took with him a number of sticks or rods of wood or metal, with small
pieces of parchment attached, on which were inscribed the names of
different planets, and these rods were supposed to have some mysterious
instrumentality in the cures he professed to effect. The proceedings
leading to his being brought before the magistrates arose in consequence
of the death of the wife of a cattle doctor. A medical man attended
her for some time, but on his pronouncing her case hopeless the
husband went a journey of twenty miles to see the white witch. The
appellant came to the woman and inquired as to the day, the hour, and
the planet under which she was born. From a box he produced some
rods with the names of the planets written on the parchment attached,
and placing these one at a time in the woman’s hands, directed her to
strike a piece of metal which he produced, and as she complied with
his directions he spoke some words in a low tone. The appellant also
prescribed some bitters and gave a powder which was to be mixed in
boiling water, and which, he added, he always used in every fever but
typhus. He stated that, though the woman was very weak, there was
no reason why she should not recover. She, however, died a day or
two afterwards. When asked what his charges were, the so-called
witch said twenty-five shillings, and that sum was paid him. The case
of the appellant was that the rods were struck by the patient on a piece
of manganese, and that this produced an electric shock. It was further
contended that the different planets actually did exercise a powerful
influence over the human frame, and the electric currents permeating
the system, and some persons spoke as to cures effected by the appellant
in some cases after medical men had given up all hope. When he first
came to the house the appellant said he was a humble instrument in the
hands of God, and he was not sure he could do anything ; it was denied
that he said there must be three persons of one faith in the room
before he could do any good.
Death is but the local or final development of a succession of
specific changes in the corporeal organism of man. As the death of
the germ is necessary to the birth or development of the flower, so is
the death of man’s physical body an indispensable precedent and indi¬
cation of his spiritual birth or resurrection.—Andrew Jackson Davis,
in “ The Philosophy of Death.''
Singular Premonition op Death. — On Tuesday, August 17th,
Roscoe Hurd, of West Lebanon, was drowned. The Great Falls
Journal says:—“Mrs. Hurd had been spending a few weeks at
Ogunquit for her health, accompanied by her daughter Ella, and Roscoe
the youngest son, fourteen years of age. Last week Mr. Hurd had a
very singular dream. He seemed to see Roscoe slide from the rocks,
and be engulfed in the waves. So vivid was it that he could not get
rid of the impression, and last Saturday went down to the beach to see
if all were safe, and, when he came away, cautioned them over and
over again to be careful. At five o’clock, Tuesday afternoon, this
terrible dream had its fulfilment. Roscoe had fixed a comfortable
place for his mother to lie down on the shore ; cheerily saying that he
would be back soon, he went in bathing with a small boy ten years
old. While playing on the rocks he slipped, and an undercurrent
quickly took him beyond human hol^.—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
A Strange Legend.—In the legendary history of Friar Bacon, as
“well as in an old play written by Robert Green, a dramatist in the
days of Queen Elizabeth, it is recounted that having been summoned
before the king, the friar was induced to show ” some of his skill be¬
fore her majesty the queen. So he waved his hand {his wand, says
the text), and “ presently was heard such excellent music that they
all said they had never heard the like.” Then there was heard a still
louder music, and four apparitions suddenly presented themselves, and
danced until they vanished and disappeared in the air. Then he waved
his wand again, and suddenly there was such a smell, “ as if all the
rich perfumes of the whole world had been there prepared in the best
manner that art could set them out.” Then Roger Bacon, having pro¬
mised a gentleman to show him his sweetheart, he pulled a hanging in
the king’s apartment aside, and every one in the room saw a kitchen-
maid with a basting ladle in her hand. The proud gentleman,
although he recognised the maiden, who disappeared as suddenly as
she had appeared, was enraged at the humilating spectacle, and
threatened the friar with revenge. What does the magician do ? He
simply answers, “Threaten not, lest I do you more shame; and do you
take heed how you give scholars the lie again 1 ”—Madame H, P,
Blavatsky. in <( Isis Unveiled,”
Oct. 26, 1877. THE SPIEITUALIST. 195
A METHODIST PREACHER’S VISION. |
In September, 1872, an article appeared in the Herald, a journal i)
published in Newman, Georgia, relating to the experience of the Rev. | i
K. W. Bingham, a Methodist minister of that place, whose wife had re- j (
cently died, from which we extract the following:— |)
“It was feared by his friends and parishioners that the terrible be- |s
reavement would prostrate him, and for a number of days the prostra- |)
tion had every appearance of fulfilment. Suddenly, however, the heart- |}
stricken man seemed to throw off the great burden of his grief, and j (
assumed an aspect of reassurance curious to behold. His closed windows I;
were thrown open, he went forth upon his pastoral duties serenely as of i (
yore, and to any address partaking of condolement, his response was | (
replete with a spirit of almost cheerful resignation. The change greatly i)
surprised the people, of course, as it seemed to go beyond the ordinary I (
resources even of Christian faith; and the current talk on the subject | (
developed much diversity of conclusion until Mr. Bingham explained j [
himself from the pulpit. Opening his sermon on a recent Sunday with j j
the remark that he should debate no particular scriptural text, but j (
preach generally upon the subject of supernatural visitations, he went |)
on to declare that he firmly believed in the ministrations of spirits from ! (
the dead to the living, even as many passages of Holy Writ describe, j j
As the congregation knew, his unspeakable anguish at the death of his i)
dear wife had found a blessed alleviation, and it was his duty to tell I (
them how he had been comforted. In the hour when his grief had j |
reached a pitch little short of madness, God had permitted his sainted j 5
wife to reappear to him bodily, and assure him of her own happiness and (
loving guard over him. Again, in the night, preceded by heavenly music, j (
she had come to him in her mortal semblance, and he had conversed i)
with her as in life. On both occasions, he said, every power of his mind i (
was in full operation, and he saw, heard, and understood the vision as i |
his people could now behold, hear, and comprehend himself. ‘ I know j /
that I am neither insane nor superstitious,’ were his concluding words; j (
‘ yet I would as soon doubt my own existence as the truth and reality of | (
what I have told you.’ ” j j
DEATH WARNINGS SAID TO BE GIVEN BY DOGS. j j
Is there any truth in the popular idea that dogs sometimes give | (I
warning of death ? If so, we shall be glad to receive properly authenti- j (j
cated instances. The following is extracted from The JReligio-Philo- |>|
sophical Journal(j
The Detroit Free Press gives an interesting account of prophetic j 11
dogs. It appears that a few years since the father of a lady living at (j
present in the western part of Detroit, Michigan, was taken seriously ill. J | j
Before the doctors had fairly decided that the case was dangerous, a M
strange dog entered the yard about midnight and set up a mournful j (i
howling. There were half a dozen people stirring around the house, and j j j
the dog was at once driven away. He returned in half an hour and !) j
repeated his howls, this time almost under the sick man’s window. The | (j
patient was awakened from sleep by the noise, and as the watchers j j j
started to drive the dog away he said, “I shall be a dead man in less i )|
than three days! ” The strange brute could hardly be driven out of the j (j
yard, much to the wonder and amazement of the watchers. The patient i
was much worse the next morning, and he lost no time in making his j) j
will. The doctors, nurses, and friends made light of the dog’s visit, and i (i
readily invented a number of excuses for his howling at that particular |; |
place and hour. “ That dog was warning me to prepare for death! ” was i) i
the firm reply of the patient, and further arguments only annoyed him. j (i
At dark the shadow of death had crossed his face, and it was plain that !) j
his hour had come. An hour before midnight the strange dog reappeared, i} |
coming as softly as a spirit, and his long-drawn, lonesome howls startled j U
the watchers so suddenly that none of the men could move from their j;]
chairs for half a minute. The dog refused to be driven away this time, j ? |
When clubs and stones were hurled at him he would run around the j (i
house or across the grounds, and return as soon as pursuit ceased. It j) j
was in summer, and the windows of the parlour, in which the man was j
dying, were raised to admit the air. Just at midnight the dog, which j (|
had been clubbed away five minutes before, bounded into the room j )j
through one of the windows, uttered a blood-curdling howl, and then jJi
dashed out of the open door. The effect on the watchers may be i (j
imagined. It was several minutes before they recovered from the shock, I >1
and when they turned to the bed they saw that the man was dead. The }|
dog did not utter another howl after leaving the parlour; indeed, he at | j|
once disappeared from the grounds, and was never seen again. j]
Mrs. Hardy, of Boston, has separated from her husband. I
On Sunday morning next, October 28th, Mr. W. J. Colville will j;i
deliver an inspirational discourse, on “The Philosophy of Prayer,” in if!
Doughty Hall, 14, Bedford-row, Holborn ; service to commence at 11.15 j \j
precisely. All seats free ; voluntary collection to defray expenses. I )i
New Facts,—What becomes of all the new discoveries of fact ? Do i
they lead to nothing and die out? or do they not rather introduce a i )i
new era, and work a complete revolution in the direction of their if!
peculiar nature? I am yet to learn of a single instance of new isi
discovery that is without this sequence, unless this be the one, and, if | )i
so, it stands alone. "What we call a fact is the form of a use; is it in
rational that the discovery of a use should lead to no use ?  j v.
Consider the unending and perpetually growing results to the race in i>i
all its future, arising out of a new fact Whence comes the magic i cj
of the simple words we pronounce, Copernicus, Newton, Franklin, and nj
Fulton, but from the mighty results growing out of the new things they ] / j
brought to light 2 Their names were thoroughly commonplace till then, j (j
p—Dr, Hallock, in “ The Road to Spiritualism^ '
SEANCE AT MANCHESTER.
BY CHARLES BLACKBURN.
In your last publication I referred to the eight seances of Miss Cook, held
at my house, which were very satisfactory to about a dozen people, viz.,
two or three at each sitting. After those stances were reported to you,
I had, at the request of two great sceptics, a final seance, which proved
a perfect failure, much to my own mortification and that of Miss Cook.
Not a single disturbance, nor bell in the air, nor spirit hands—in fact,
nothing ; so my two friends begged of me to give up such tomfoolery,
for it was now proved that when the medium was tied and tested she
could produce nothing, therefore she was imposing on my credulity.
Thus was the seance closed.
But after their departure, viz., next evening, I had a materialisation
seance with the medium; my daughter was present; when Lillie ap¬
peared, I desired to know, “Why such behaviour by her last night?”
She replied, “Did your two friends know the subtle nature of the laws
governing manifestations, they would not be sneering at the failure.
Your friends are at fault, and not the medium. One is possessed of an
indomitable will, and had two equally powerful spirits attending hipi; and
he did his utmost, by holding, and trying, and willing, which over-ruled
my power; he even told your daughter he would not be answerable if she
held one of the medium’s hands! In fact, he did not want anything to occur
—it did not suit his religion, for he has none, whatever he may say. As
to the other man, this subject clashes with his views of religion, for he
thinks it shocking if spirits do nothing better than knock bells and
tables about. Thus you see they both willed against it; but had you
had others more sympathetic with the medium it would have counter¬
acted their power, and all would have gone right as before. Now, had
these men left their prejudices at home, all would have gone on well.
My medium has to be passive in dark seances, and not to use her will,
or I cannot work; and why should not others who come to learn do the
same ? Instead of that, they come and break conditions, by disjoining
hands and feeling about in the air; in fact, they at present are not
worthy these seances; and, I assure you, my medium in no way helps
me, or does anything; which, observe, your friend, Dr. Evans, of Leigh,
can testify, who held both her hands, and placed his feet on hers ; yet
all the time disturbances were going on, and he declared it. So, ‘ Good
night.’ ”
Thus ended my last stance* Miss Cook returned last Friday, after a
night of bed-room disturbances in my daughter’s room. My daughter
says that chairs have been piled on the bed when the medium and her¬
self were together in bed.
Dr. Slade is now in Copenhagen, giving a series of sittings to
Professor Lorenz, a well-known physicist.
In consequence of stormy weather in the Atlantic, The Banner of
Light and American news and letters came to hand three days late last
week.
Mr. Edward Maitland has written to us, stating that he has had
satisfactory evidence of the genuineness and high-class nature of Mr.
Fletcher’s mediumship.
Mr. Harrison’s new book has only been out a fortnight, yet it has
already been very favourably reviewed in half a dozen newspapers,
including the Morning Post, and a demand for it has begun to spring
up among the general pnblic. There are only two or three poems of a
Spiritualistic nature in it.
If any of our readers know of any authentic records of the mesmerising
of animals, will they kindly forward the dates and exact titles of the
books containing the same to Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, in the course of next week ? Does anybody know where
the mesmerising of a bear in a show at Oxford, many years ago, was
recorded ?
Spirit Presence.—The prevalent but false idea that the spirits of the
departed are perforce wafted to some remote sphere or locality, from
whence they are for ever debarred further earthly view and knowledge,
is not only untenable from its improbability, but contrary to well-esta¬
blished facts. All human spirits live on earth at least as long as they
are embodied in the flesh, and why should not at least many of these,
whose attachment to earthly things is paramount to other attractions,
still be drawn to the earth—their birthplace, the scene of all that has
interested them, of all the events and associations of their lives, and
still the abiding-place of many of their dearest friends, in whose welfare
they must continue to be interested. Why should they not through the
attraction of affection and love, and the influence of association, con¬
tinue to visit these friends and these scenes ? Is it not as reasonable
to suppose that their home, for at least some time, should be near their
former earthly one, as to suppose that they are separated from it by an
uncertain and immense distance ?—Crowell.
Supposed Trance.—Our Malton correspondent writes :—“ On Tues¬
day week, the 9th inst., a lady named Williams, wife of Mr. F.
Williams, brewer, of that town, died, as was supposed, and prepara¬
tions were made for her interment on the following Monday morning,
the grave being duly prepared on Saturday night. On Sunday last,
however, from what Mr. Williams and his friends observed, they were
led to believe that Mrs. Williams was not dead, but in a trance ; and
as she was known to have been in a trance of some duration when
quite a young girl, the funeral was postponed, and up to Friday morn¬
ing had not been solemnised, although the coffin and everything had
been prepared. The body presents none of the usual characteristics of
death. The countenance retains its natural expression and colour, the
limbs their flexibility, and there is said not to be the slightest trace of
decomposition. There is, in fact, every indication of presence of life
in the body except motion. The affair has caused the utmost interest
in the district, and many persons have been to see the lady, who is well
known.”—The Times,
1'96
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 26, 1877.
MESMERISM.
BY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES.
Mesmerism, like every other subject Worthy of investiga¬
tion and practice, requires, above all things, patience and
untiring energy. Many beginners fancy, that if they try
one or two experiments and fail in producing marked effects
in about half an hour, the process is not worth continuing,
;and they conclude that either they have no mesmeric power,
'or that their patients are unimpressible. This is one of the
greatest stumbling-blocks in the way of a just appreciation
of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper
use of mesmerism—the want of faith on the part of those
who commence their investigations in a half-hearted spirit,
and who are disappointed and discouraged on the very
threshold of their inquiries. Mr. Atkinson’s constant at¬
tendance day and night on one patient for seven months,
and the examples of Dr. Elliotson, Dr. Ashburner, Mr. H.
S. Thompson, and many others, prove, that if the mesmeric
process be only carried on with patience and persoverance,
there are but few patients who could not be eventually
affected, and but few diseases that could not be cured or
relieved. Dr. Ashburner, in his scientific work on Animal
Magnetism, gives numerous instances, where in certain
critical cases, in which it was a question of life or death,
that he and those he employed as operators, frequently con¬
tinued the passes for three or four hours at a time, their
perseverance being at length rewarded by their patients fall¬
ing into a deep mesmeric sleep, which lasted for several
hours. Many of these patients were suffering from typhoid
fevers, all the ordinary resources of medicine had failed, and
mesmerism, as is often the case, was had recourse to as a
last resource. If Dr. Ashburner, then in full practice as a
physician, could spare time and strength for making con¬
tinued passes for four hours, surely there must be hundreds
and thousands of healthy and robust young men and women
much better able to spend both time and strength in the
service of their suffering relatives and neighbours.
Dr. Elliotson, in his report of the-cure of true cancer by
mesmerism, in The Zoist, vol. vi., page 232, says : % This
case proves the necessity of perseverance in mesmerism.
Five years and upwards was Miss Barber mesmerised, and
for the greater part of the period three times a day, remain¬
ing in the trance some hours each time, the part being
locally mesmerised in her morning and evening mesmeric
sleep, which took place in bed, and in the night the mes¬
meric passed into the natural sleep. Most patients, and
some mesmerists, have no idea of the necessity of perse¬
verance. I have no patience with half the people who make
a trial of mesmerism, expecting it to act as though its
powers were miraculous, and not natural. I know mesmer¬
ists who give up a case if there is not improvement or some
sensible effect after a mesmerisation of a quarter of an hour
for a few days, and who also mesmerise far too many persons.
Greatrakes and Lutherburg committed these faults, and thus
at length fell into disrepute.”
In a former article on the subject of mesmerism, I re¬
marked, that in order to benefit a patient it was not absolutely
necessary that the mesmeric sleep should be induced, and
that the passes have frequently a most beneficial effect, even
when no immediate symptoms of their power are to be
detected. Dr. Ashburner, however, who with the combined
advantages of being both a skilful physician and an experi¬
enced mesmeriser, naturally speaks with far greater authority
than could the most experienced non-medical practitioner,
expressly states that in cases of epilepsy, and in typhus and
other fevers, the deep mesmeric sleep is absolutely neces¬
sary, and he gives some very striking cases in his Philosophy
of Animal Magnetism, showing the beneficial effects of the deep
sleep in allaying the fever, in controlling the delirium and
in contributing to the cure of the disease. I have often
been assured by patients that one hour’s deep mesmeric
sleep is,as refreshing and invigorating as many hours of
natural sleep, and it is a well known fact that the mesmeric
sleep during the day, instead of interfering with, generally
insures a good night’s rest. I am not aware that there is
any drug known to medical men which can claim equally
remarkable and satisfactory results.
I have frequently heard people boast that mesmerism
could not affect them; they seemed to consider it rather a
1| merit, nay, a proof of strength of mind, that they could
| resist the passes of certain so-called powerful mesmerisers $
| but, on further inquiries, I have found that some twenty or
thirty minutes were devoted to and wasted in the trial, and,
| as probably these good people were at the time in the enjoy-
I ment of pretty good health, I, for one, am not in the least
| surprised that at the end of the seance, they were about as
| wide awake as they were at the beginning. Mesmerisers
should steadily refuse to waste their time and strength
merely to gratify scoffers whose favourite challenge is some-
| thing like this : Mesmerise me, and I shall believe.”
I have not yet touched upon the subject of the use of
! mesmerised water and other substances. Mesmerised water
| I have frequently employed with good effects on my patients
| both as a soporific and as a tonic; taken at night, it will
| often be found to encourage natural sleep, and in some
| susceptible cases will produce the mesmeric coma. Mes-
| merised gloves and flannel have also frequently been used
with good effect and interesting experiments made, which
| conclusively proved that some peculiar virtue was really
imparted to such substances. To mesmerise water, take a
tumbler nearly full, in one hand, and with the other make
passes over the surface of the water for about ten minutes or
I a quarter of an hour. The same process should be used
| with other substances, with the addition of slow breathing
| over them, so as to fully charge them with the mesmeric
| fluid or aura. Marvellous effects produced by these mes-
| merised substances have been reported by credible witnesses,
I and certain individuals appear to be remarkably endowed
| with the power of imparting this specific virtue, although
| the power of mesmerising, like other gifts or talents, is
| probably shared in to a certain extent by a large proportion
of human beings.
This consideration should encourage beginners to give their
mesmeric powers a fair trial, and if they can only occasionally
relieve some sufferer, from, a headache, a toothache or
rheumatic pain, they will be doing good, and have the satis¬
faction of remembering that they also have been of some use
to their fellow creatures.
I have no doubt that many people would laugh at the idea
n I of a mesmeriser being able to impart any virtue to a glass of
r | j water, by merely making a few passes over it, and they would
| j probably attribute the effects produced entirely to the in-
i; fluence of the imagination. As the imagination, however,
:j I has been so frequently credited with the production of the
j I mesmeric sleep and its various attendant phenomena, be-
| | ginners should be philosophically indifferent to the remark-
| able and alarmingly long list of theories attempting to explain
j the modus operandi of mesmerism, and whether the state in-
| duced be attributable to imagination, expectation, monotony,
| unconscious cerebration, psychic force, self-induced con¬
dition, dominant ideas, will-power or some healthy heal¬
ing emanation proceeding from the mesmeriser, I should say
I to all practitioners, “ call it what you like, but persistently
m employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.”
If, by the use of mesmerism, the operator can but remove
j a raging toothache, it will encourage him to undertake the
j j treatment of more serious complaints, and he may rest
! | j assured that the sufferer will not be hypercritical as to how
i the Pain may have been removed, as long as he finds himself
j i relieved.
I I But there are an immense number of cases where the
j j ¥ imagination theory ” would be totally at fault, and I may
j j; here notice a case in my own practice. I was attending a
j j patient who had for some years been subject to sudden attacks
| | of cataleptic trance, which generally were produced by any
| j sudden loud noise, strong mental emotion, or even by merely
| | raising the head from the horizontal position, and these trances
| | would sometimes last for several hours. During one of these
j trances and, within a very short time of its invasion, I
|| | j attended with a friend who was an experienced physician; he
i | tested the state of the patient and pronounced her to be totally
P | unconscious. I then proceeded to breathe slowly over the
|| region of the heart, and in the course of a few minutes, was
I | gratified by hearing faint sounds of returning animation,
I ! sounds of laboured respiration, and in less than ten minutes
| | from the time I commenced the breathing, the patient passed
j j into the sleep-waking state and was able to converse. This
power of determining or ending the trance was afterwards
Oct. 26, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
197
made use of on the occasion of any sudden attack and the
treatment eventually wrought a complete cure. I am not
aware that there is any drug mentioned in the Pharmacopeia
which, even with the aid of the imagination, could have
restored animation in so short a time. To avoid any miscon¬
ception or appearance of exaggeration, I must state that I
had frequently mesmerised this patient, who was remarkably
sensitive to the mesmeric influence.
I am, however, convinced in my own mind, that from the
peculiar habit or idiosyncrasy of this patient, mesmerism
would have affected her during the trance, even had she not
previously been mesmerised, but of course in that case the
process must have been carried on for a considerable length
of time, to have produced an effect.
There are numerous other instances of the powerful effects
of mesmerism on human beings, when in a state of insen¬
sibility, or not aware that any one was attempting to
mesmerise them. In some cases the patients were at a con¬
siderable distance from the operators; and experiments on
very young children, and even on the brute creation, as
recorded by Dr. Wilson, of the Middlesex Hospital, amply
prove that there is some specific virtue inherent in
mesmerism, as marked and decided as are the virtues and
properties of the most powerful medicines.
On due consideration, it is not perhaps very surprising
that the majority of the members of the medical profession
should neglect or even oppose the practice of mesmerism.
We should remember that they, like the members of other
professions, must live by their practice and calling. They
have had an expensive education, studied the virtues and
properties of different drugs, and the uses of other healing
appliances, and as long as their practice is what is called
orthodox, then, according to their skill and success, they
will retain the favour of their medical brethren, and the
confidence of their patients, without any risk of injury to
their pecuniary interests by having recourse to an unpopular
remedy.
But, I may observe, all the more honour to the noble-
hearted few, who, in spite of obloquy and threatened loss of
practice, have, when all the ordinary resources of medicine
have failed, liberally welcomed the aid of any new and
perhaps generally depreciated remedy which seemed to hold
out one last chance of relieving a sufferer.
But what appears to me as something truly marvellous, is
the fact that the great majority of non-medical men should
be so prejudiced or wanting in the moral eourage to face ridi¬
cule, should they deviate from the common track, that, as
long as those who are nearest and dearest to them have what
is called the best medical advice, even as a last resource,
when all ordinary means have failed, steadily refuse to try
the effects of mesmerism, because they have been told that
either there is nothing in it, or, that if true, it is to be attri¬
buted to Satanic agency ! They willingly and liberally pay
their fees, console themselves with the recollection that they
had called in doctors A, B, and C, and helplessly ask,
u what more could we have done?”
I was once applied to by a medical friend, who told me
that he had a patient who was afflicted with an incurable
disease, but that he thought mesmerism might relieve the
severe and almost constant pain, as he had tried the passes,
and the patient had proved susceptible. It was not a ques¬
tion of cure.; mesmerism was suggested by the liberal-
minded and humane doctor, merely as a means of smoothing
the passage to the grave. Will it be believed that the
parents of the patient objected on the score of religious
scruples ? Is it not wonderful that any sane human being
should behold his child suffering agonies of pain, the skilled
and experienced medical adviser totally unable to mitigate
those sufferings, yet hesitate to have recourse to a trial of a
remedy which over and over again has been found to afford
relief when all other appliances have failed ? Is it that the
parent is afraid of ridicule, that he dare not employ an un¬
popular remedy, or is it some superstitious dread that
mesmerism may possibly owe its healing powers to Satanic
agency ?
Satanic agency has certainly played many parts in the
history of discoveries, and the following extracts from the
Rev. Gr. Sandby’s work, Mesmerism and its Opponents, may
amuse or astonish the readers of The Spiritualist when they
I find certain blessings—at least so esteemed by ordinary folks
—attributed to the agency of the “ Evil One
“ Satanic agency first comes forward in the character of
an old woman, curing the sore eyes of a boy by the infusion
of dock-leaves.
“ Satanic agency next appears in the character of a Jesuit,
scowling darkly around, and curing a tertian ague by the
Peruvian cinchona.
“ Satanic agency again appears in the character of Dr.
Jenner convulsing the College of Physicians with his
novelties, and saving myriads of infants by the process of
vaccination.
u Satanic agency lastly appears in the character of a
modern mesmeriser, healing by his soothing power some of
the most distressing diseases, and expelling a whole train of
neuralgic pains which had defied the skill of the faculty.”
That, because a human being should be able by certain
passes to relieve a suffering child, is it logical, or according
to the ideas of common sense, to conclude that the operator
is an agent of the Evil One ?
In conclusion, would it be deemed impertinent for a non¬
medical man to remind parents, husbands, and wives who—
without leaning to the Satanic agency theory—yet hesitate
to employ as a last resource a remedy merely because its
effects may be attributable to so small a thing as the
imagination, that they will find in their Bible the very
sensible and practical appeal of Naaman’s servants:
“ My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great
thing, wouldst thou not have done it ? How much rather
then, when he saith to thee, ‘ Wash, and be clean ? ’ ”
Tottenham, October, 1877.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
On Wednesday, the 17 th instant, the second seance for
inquirers took place ; Mr. C. E. Williams was the medium,
and thirteen sitters were present. Mr. Williams was tied by
two strangers with narrow tape round the wrists to the arms
of the chair, a space of about three inches intervening in
tape-length between wrist and chair. The “ Oxford chimes ”
were placed by me beyond his reach at his feet, and the
hand bell on the small shelf in the cabinet, also beyond his
reach. He went into the cabinet without any preliminary
H table seance. After some long waits, chiefly due to irregu-
| larity in the music sung, a light was seen faintly outside the
| cabinet curtain. The voice of “ Peter ” was frequently
heard, though indistinctly ; the Oxford chimes appeared to
be carried to a distance behind the medium, and then to be
I played upon around the circle, at a distance of about ten feet
! from the cabinet. This was subsequently proved to be the
| fact, as the Oxford chimes, as well as the hand bell, were
found on the floor immediately on a light being struck after
! the seance. Mr. Williams’s hands were then found to be
| tied as before, and there is reason to be certain of the fact
that he never moved out of the cabinet.
Though the manifestations at this seance were not strong
in comparison to what has often occurred on previous occa-
| sions, they were thoroughly satisfactory to all inquirers
present. Don Rafael Parga, the secretary of the New
Granada Spiritualists’ Society, was present.
C. Carter Blake.
A Haunted House.—It appears from our friend, Mr. Gr. W. Lawson,
j that Portland, Oregon, has had a genuine haunted house. Three
| coopers had the house to live in, and they could not stay there for noise
at nights and from having the bed-clothing jerked off them by some
| unseen power. Mr. Lawson visited the place about two p.m., and went
! all over the house, but could see nothing out of the way, and upstairs he
i stopped by an old bedstead the men had left there, when all at once he
| was struck with an axe twice about his left knee, and twice on the back
of his head. He cried out with pain, and would have fallen, but was
i caught by some of his companions. At a circle in the evening the
matter was explained. The ghost said he had been killed near there in
| 1852, by two wood choppers, and in the manner Mr. Lawson was
struck, one having him down by the leg, the other sinking the axe up to
the handle, just as he felt it in the back of the head and neck. They
robbed him, he said, of 800 dols., and then took his body and threw
it into the burning lurid pit of a large fir tree that was being burned
| down right under where that room had since been built. He said he
i could come to that place and connect himself to earth again by means of
1 his ashes there in the ground.—Jteligio-Philosophical Journal.
198
THU SPlUtTtJAlitST.
Oct. 26,1877.
SPECULATIONS ON THE DOCTRINE OF
REINCARNATION.
Our opinion as to the verity or otherwise of the reincar¬
nation doctrine believed in by many intelligent Continental
Spiritualists, and sometimes freely discussed in these pages,
is exactly that held by the French positivist M. Littre, about
the doctrines of Lucretius. M. Littre says :—
<( The great materialistic poet Lucretius knew a multitude
of things which we do not. He knew that there were happy
and tranquil gods, who dwelt in a heaven where they had
nothing to do, and did it. He knew that atoms existed, he
knew the shape of those atoms, and he knew that this world
was the result of the movements of those atoms—atoms, by
the way, which have nothing in common with the atoms of
our chemists. He knew also that animals were the result of
spontaneous generation, and that they emerged in a half-
formed state, and with tender skins from the ground, which
was their matrix. How did he know all this ? Well, he
thought that all this explained the nature of things, as he
conceived it, better than any other explanation. Obeying
an intellectual impulse, which is not peculiar to himself or to
the age in which he lived, he thought that a proposition
which explained anything to his own satisfaction must be
true, and without scruple or difficulty he accepted an expla¬
nation instead of a demonstration.”
“ISIS UN VEILED. ”
Madame H. P. Blavatsky’s book, entitled Isis Unveiled,
has just been published, and copies reached us a day or two
ago. It is in two ponderous closely printed volumes of between
600 and 700 pages each, neatly bound in cloth. The work
has a copious index, apparently carefully drawn up, and it is
well printed on good paper. Of the merits or demerits of
the book we can, of course, say nothing at present, and how
some of the New York papers managed, in a few hours, to
come to exactly opposite conclusions to each other about the
work, and to give in that time a verdict upon the character
of the contents of 1,300 large pages of closely-printed
letter-press, is a mystery. The book is said to contain much
about the occult sciences and magic, as understood and
practised in Eastern countries. Madame Blavatsky’s agent
has written to us that the price of the two vols. in England
is £1 16s.
EXAMPLES OF THE HEALING POWER OF MESMERISM.
Colonel William Winslow Bennett, of New York, who
is now in London, and who took an active part in founding
the first Society of Spiritualists in Washington, has favoured
ns with the following extracts from his diary :—
Upon the eighty-second birthday of Commodore Vander¬
bilt, after his physicians had given him up, I was invited to
try to save him. He had not slept for eight days, suffering
inflammation of prostrate gland, retention of urine, and
hernia. I mesmerised him for about two weeks, relieved
him, and he lived nearly a year afterwards. He said, “ I
thank God he has given you the tremendous power to relieve
my distress. You are the only person I ever met with more
mesmeric power than myself.” Dr. Jarrea Lindsay ex¬
claimed, “ Miraculous ! Miraculous 1 ”
In 1867, General M. McEwen (cousin of President
Grant), of Washington, whose wife I mesmerised, writes:
“After due observation, I believe your mesmeric power can
cure many organic and functional diseases pronounced in¬
curable.” McEwen ranked the highest among the volunteer
surgeons in our late war, and he is now chief medical
examiner for the Pennsylvania Life Company, at Washington.
Rev. J. H. Benson, editor of the Jersey City Journal,
writes : “ Two years since you cured my daughter of con¬
sumption after three physicians said she must die.”
I cured the daughter of Mr. John Freeman, Globe Life
Insurance Company, New York, of St. Vitus’ dance (Cbras).
Her physicians called me in; she had become insane. Hers
was a terrible case. I also cured the daughter of Mr. Ryan,
of Union-place Hotel, New York. Her mother said: u He
is an angel, for he cured Maime of consumption,”
I THE MATERIALISATION OF A SPIRIT WATCHED.
L Notes of a seance held with Dr. Monck as medium, at his rooms, 26, South¬
ampton-row, on Oct. 19th, 1877, at 8.30 p.m. Present—Rev. Thos. Colley,
Mrs. Colley, and myself.
The second-floor room in which the stance was held opens
J into an inner room, and each room has a door opening on to
| the landing. The sitting-room door was locked, and that of
| the inner room I secured by means of gummed paper, the
| outside of a sheet of 2 Id. stamps, bearing the peculiar
| marks and letters that belong to stamps of that price,
| initialled by myself. Mr. Colley and I searched the inner
room throughout. There was no other means of access to it
j except by a window, which looked down into a back yard.
| There was nothing in the room which could have been used
in producing the phenomena I am about to record. Between
i the two rooms a door was left open, and a counterpane was
suspended over the doorway.
The room in which we sat was faintly lighted by a very
small paraffin lamp, which was placed in a corner of the
| room and shaded. Though the eye became accustomed to
the dim light by degrees, and could make out the forms and
| features presented, the light throughout the evening was
| less than I desire for exact observation. We were informed
| that the medium was exhausted by previous seances, and
| that the light was much less than usual.
After a short sitting at the table, Dr. Monck retired into
| the inner room, and presently appeared standing at the
| doorway between the two rooms, drew aside the curtains,
I and, entranced by Samuel, stood and conversed with us. We
| were all sitting at the table, about two yards and a half
| from the medium. By degrees a faint cloud of white, at
j first like a fine white mist, appeared by his left side, and in
I the course of a minute or two, during which the medium
j gasped and shuddered convulsively, a small, but perfectly
| formed figure of a child, a little under or about four feet in
j height, grew by his side. This figure seemed to be united
! to the medium by a line of white mist, but the light was
I not good enough to enable me to say positively that it
| | was so.
j The child was, undoubtedly, a separate entity, distinct
j from the medium. Samuel maintained a perpetual current
I of conversation, came round to me and grasped both my
j hands, and placed the medium’s lips on the back of
|| one of them. During this time we could all see and hear
j the little figure clapping her hands, and could hear words
| proceeding from her mouth. She also rang a little hand-
j bell with, sufficient vigour to break it.
When she had remained for some appreciable time at a
| distance of not less than six feet from the medium, he drew
| near to her to give her more vitality; and when this was
j expended, the process was again renewed, until at length he
j stood again by her side, and she vanished from my eyes, but
j the light again was not strong enough to enable me to say
I positively that the absorption into the body of the medium,
j described by Mr. Colley, took place. Both stood by the
)j curtain, and by degrees the form vanished, leaving a round
j misty appearance on the left side of the medium’s black
j coat. This, too, faded, and he came towards us alone. Had
j the curtain between the two rooms been black, I might have
j seen what took place more clearly.
j After a very brief interval of retirement in the inner room,
I the medium again stepped forward, and, pulling the curtain
] aside, stood in the doorway. By his side came a similar
| misty appearance, which developed rapidly, until there stood
I before us a man of considerably taller stature than the
j medium, swarthy and Oriental in type, with large black
| beard and moustache, and with dusky arms and hands. On
j his head was an ornament which flashed in the dim light.
| He was draped from head to foot in white, and, making
i allowance for the deceptive nature of such an appearance in
I uncertain light, I should say that Mr. Colley’s estimate
| that the form exceeded the medium’s height by eight inches
| is under rather than over the mark. I speak with confidence,
| because I asked the figure to stand in a position which enabled
j me to measure its height against the side of the doorway
j with my eye. I have no doubt that the figure was firmly
planted on its feet, because the same height was maintained
I in all its movements.
[i In this case, again, there was no room for doubt that the
Cct. 26, 187?.
TllE gPlftlTUAiilSf.
199
figure was separate from the medium, and was endowed with j |
vitality and volition. At request the Mahedi (such is his m
title) took up a chair, and put it on the table, removed it m
and sat down upon it, with the clumsy, jerky movement that j j
I have before noticed in these forms; wrote some hiero- | j
glyphics in my pocket-book, and moved round to a remote j !
corner of the room while the medium was by my chair. In ||
this position Dr. Monck, under control, grasped both my | j
hands, and placed his lips on the back of one of them, and j j
under those conditions the form spoke and moved round to | I
the table. At request the medium held one of my hands, l|j
while the form touched the other. The medium’s hands j |
were very warm, that of the figure cold, almost clammy, and | j
very lean and dusky in appearance. j j
The same process was gone through while the child-figure j |
was before us, and I noticed then that the little hand given | j
to me was life-like and natural to the touch. Not so with i j
the Mahedi’s hand. Its deathly coldness sent a shudder | |
through me. . ! I
After several journeys of the medium to vitalise the form, j j
as in the previous case, the same scene was enacted by the j |
curtain. The medium and form stood side by side, and the m
latter gradually vanished ; but whether it was dissipated, or ! |
retired into the inner room, or was absorbed into the medium, j!
there was not light enough to enable me to see. [
After the disappearance of the form, the medium still I
entranced, requested us to examine the inner room. Mr.
Colley and I at once did so. My seal on the door was intact,
and no suspicious object of any kind was discovered by a
thorough scrutiny.
My testimony should be read in connection with that
already published by Mr. Colley. He had better light, and !
better means of close observation than it was possible to j
afford me. I trust, when circumstances have familiarised j
the controlling intelligences with me, to find opportunity for j
observing the strange phenomenon so clearly described by !
Mr. Colley in light and circumstances which will enable me j
to say decisively that the modus operandi is what he de- j
scribes. For the present I can only say that what I saw was j
consistent with his statement of what he saw under better j
conditions of observation. i
As to the separate existence of the forms, the bona jides of j j
the medium, and the straightforward character of the whole ! !
stance, I have no doubt. I !
When this part of the seance was over the medium laid on | 1
the table two small slates, which I examined, and marked | !
with a private sign. I assured myself that they were clean. | I
I placed a crumb of slate pencil between their inner sur- | |
faces, and tied them together. They never left my sight, | |
nor did I once remove my hand from the corner of one of i|
them, Mr. Colley touching the other corner. A lamp gave | |
sufficient light on the table to see clearly. Asked what word j j
I would have written I said, Snow. The sound of writing j |
was soon heard, and Samuel, in control, said he had erased | j
his first attempt at an S, and had signed his own name with j j
a peculiar S, which facts he drew attention to before the ||j;
slates were untied. I at once removed the string, and found j> j
the words exactly as described. In addition two words, j(j
e\ favourite way,” were found written. They had been taken j I
from our passing conversation. Mr. Colley was talking, |||
immediately before the writing began, of a <e favourite way” |]j
of spelling a certain name. |||
I can imagine no more conclusive test. j>|
M.A. Oxon. | |
The above report is correct, and I endorse it with the fol- |||
lowing additions. ' Ul
The light was not so good as before, for the medium was jll
upset and worried, and had neglected to prepare himself as I Kj
had urged, viz., a Turkish bath, suitable food (vegetarian), |||
rest and sleep, things essential to mediums for the most i||
successful sittings. But under the conditions, with a new m
sitter (M.A. Oxon) present with us for the first time, the |?|
results were better than I had anticipated. ■
The words spoken by the figure when the medium’s lips |<|
were pressed on the back of the hand of M.A. Oxon, were m
to this effect, “ Tell Osiris this is due to him;” our inner m
circle will understand it. m
The Mahedi, as an Egyptian, could not speak English at a |j|
previous sitting, and at it and this seemed slow to under- ‘ *
stand what Samuel, in control, said to him. At the past
sitting, however, after much trouble on Samuel’s part and
mine, we got him to write these words, which I dictated, “ An
Eastern Spirit,” and then it struck me as absurd that any
earthly or Spiritual being could write in a language it
couldn’t understand; but holding the pencil clumsily (more
in the way that a stylus would be held) it made very rapid
snatching movements, jerks, and circular twists, and then
dashed off suddenly the words desired twice over. The
character of the handwriting was the same in both cases,
but the first attempt was less free and flowing than the
second ; both were written with great power and speed, and
it struck me that the arm of the Mahedi was controlled by
some force extra to itself, as in writing mediumship, and not
moved of its own volition.
So in the present case, where the figure spoke the words,
Ci Tell Osiris this is due to him,” it again seemed very absurd
that an Eastern spirit could speak English, when it had
manifest difficulty in comprehending it when spoken by us,
and it struck me and my wife also, that the Mahedi spoke
under control, the passive instrument merely, momentarily
oracular, for the use of some other intelligence, for the words
were uttered much in the same way and with the same
tone and emphasis that Samuel has occasionally to adopt
when there is lack of power. Thomas Colley.
Mr. J. Coates is now lecturing on the subject of mesmerism at the
Adelphi Theatre, Liverpool. At the conclusion of each lecture a series
of instructive and amusing biological experiments is given. His enter¬
tainments are well spoken of by the local papers.
“ Heath is but a door which opens into new and more perfect
existence. It is a triumphal arch through which man’s immortal spirit
passes at the moment of leaving the outer world to depart for a higher,
a sublimer, and more magnificent country.”—“The Philosophy of Death,”
Andrew Jackson Davis.
Spiritualism at the Hague.—Mr. J. N. T. Martheze writes from the
Hague—“ Spiritualism is progressing here, though there are also some
Carpenters and Lankesters in the place. Several young students have
become mediums, of course in private, which is better. Mr. Riko has
just told me that Dr. Monck has consented to come here, and has written
that he will bring his secretary.”
The Psychological Society of Great Britain.—On Thursday
next, at 8.30 p.m., the first meeting of the new session of the Psycho¬
logical Society will be held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
London. Mr. Serjeant Cox, the President, will then deliver his opening
address. Mr. F. K. Munton, of Willesden, N.W., is the honorary
secretary.
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—A few ladies and gentlemen in the
above town and neighbourhood contemplate getting up a series of
f* Sunday Evenings for the People,” during the coming winter, similar
to those now conducted in the metropolis, at Sadler’s "Wells Theatre.
Dr. William Hitchman, M.R.C.S., will deliver the introductory lecture,
on the “ Wonders of Anatomy,” illustrated with a fine series of lantern
slides and the oxy-hydrogen light; after which there will be recitations
of spiritual poems, songs by soloists of eminence, together with full
band and chorus.
Lectures at the Langham Hall.—Last Monday evening, October
22nd, an appreciative audience assembled in Langham Hall, Great
Portland-street, London, to hear an inspirational oration on “ Predes¬
tination and Free Will ” delivered through the mediumship of Mr. W. J.
Colville. The address was listened to with great attention, and at its
close many questions were answered. The audience then chose “The
Present War ” as the subject for an impromptu poem, which was then
delivered, and it elicited loud applause. Miss Chandos Leigh Hunt
ably presided over the meeting. We are informed that a fund has been
opened for the purpose of providing means to make these Monday
evening meetings more widely known and adequately supported than
they have hitherto been. The following sums have been received :—
A Friend, £2 ; a Lady, 5s.; Mr. W. Herbert, £l. Contributions are
received by Mr. W. J. Colville towards this fund.
Mr. and Miss Dietz.—Miss Ella Dietz, who is known to the
London public in connection with a very successful entertainment,
given some two years ago at the Egyptian Hall, and more recently
as a member of the Haymarket Theatre Company, made her first
appearance in England on the 12th inst., as a public reader, at the Angell
Town Institute, Brixton, at the request of numerous friends, who,
having enjoyed her recitations in private, believed that her talents
as a reader would meet with the cordial appreciation of larger
audiences. We gladly chronicle her unqualified success, and welcome
to the ranks of public readers one whose artistic method and refined
taste must win general recognition and popular favour. No one who
has ever heard Miss Dietz recite ‘ ‘ Babie Bell,” or Mrs. Browning’s
“ Mother and Poet,” will forget her picturesque and graceful tender¬
ness of attitude and expression. She was assisted on this occasion by
her brother, Mr. Frank Dietz, whose appearance at the Haymarket
Theatre has been already noticed by the press in favourable terms.
His rendering of some of Bret Harte’s quaint and peculiar poems
was an attractive feature of the evening’s entertainment. Miss Dietz
should certainly arrange a course of readings in the neighbourhood of
London this winter.— West London Express,
200
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 26, 1877,
THAT “FLUTTER.”
From the “ Banner of Light,”
Hub, 8 9, 77,
When a gay sportsman fireth off his gun,
And sees soon after something of a flutter,
He readily concludes some one has lost
Thereby a power to eat his bread-and-butter.
One day I took the barrel of my pen,
Put in a squib, and up and fired away ;
Then looked to see what small or great effect
The squib, thus fired, had wrought on human clay.
Thought I, if this light thing shot in the air
Has struck some one and thus produced a schism,
He probably will rise and loud declare
’Twas wrong in me to hit his organism.
But not a sign in these United States
Toward which I’d aimed—most daring tried my wit on.
None felt the squib. “ Wait,” said a kindly voice:
“Perhaps you’ll see a flutter in Great Britain.”
Jo Cose.
TIME TO GO.
They know the time to go!
The fairy clouds strike their inaudible hour
In field and woodland, and each punctual flower
Bows at the signal an obedient head,
And hastes to bed.
The pale anemone
Glides on her way with scarcely a good-night;
The violets tie their purple night-caps tight;
And hand in hand the dancing columbines,
In blithesome lines,
Drop their last courtesies,
Flit from the scene and couch them for their rest:
The meadow lily folds her scarlet vest,
And hides it ’neath the grass’s lengthening green,
Fair and serene.
Her sister lily floats
On the blue pond, and raises golden eyes
To court the golden splendour of the skies.
The sudden signal comes, and down she goes,
To find repose
In the cool depths below.
A little later, and the asters blue
Depart in crowds, a brave and cheery crew:
While golden-rod, still wide-awake and gay,
Turns him away,
Furls his bright parasols,
And, like a little hero, meets his fate.
The gentians, very proud to sit up late,
Next follow. Every fern is tucked and set
’Neath coverlet
Downy and soft and warm.
No little seedling voice is heard to grieve,
Or make complaints the folding wood beneath ;
Nor lingering dares to stay, for well they know
The time to go.
Teach us your patience, brave,
Dear flowers, till we shall dare to part like you,
Willing God’s will, sure that His clock strikes true,
That His sweet day augurs a sweeter morrow,
With smiles, not sorrow.
New Jerusalem Messenger,
“ SO NEAR, AND YET SO FAR.”
So near, that I held him clasped never so dearly,
So near, that I heard faintest sigh from his breast;
So near, I could watch every change, oh how clearly,
So near, that I laid him myself down to rest.
So far, that my clasp could not reach him, detaining,
So far, that already he’s gone from my sight;
So far, that he hears not my sad heart’s complaining,
So far, that he knows not my watching to-night.
So near, that a moment transported him thither,
So far, that no glimpse of beyond could I see ;
So near, yet I ask still despairingly whither ?
So far, that the answer it reacheth not me.
Lost, though I seek him with tremulous longing,
Lost, all because of my doubts and my fears ;
Could I believe that around me are thronging
Loved ones gone forward—away with my tears !
So near, we can almost at times hear their 'voices,
So far, that at others we listen in vain;
So near, when we doubt not, our sad heart rejoices,
So far, when our doubtings all come back again.
So near, when we conquer in selfhood’s temptation,
So far, when we give in and fall in the strife;
So near, when our souls soar with high aspiration,
So far, when we cling to this sordid earth-life.
Not so far, after all, is the region immortal,
Not so far, far away, is the bright summer-land ;
Not so far are the mansions beyond death’s dark portal,
Not so far are our loved ones, the blest angel-band.
ClULFOBP.
<£omsponirence.
[Great freedomis given to cor respondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned ;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
iA CURIOUS SEANCE IN MALVERN.
Sir,—On the 14th inst. I sat with our circle, after an interval of some
| weeks, as I had been travelling in one direction, and Mr. Eglinton in
another. I have been told that his seances in Wales and elsewhere
j were very remarkable, but I only write of what I see.
“ Joey” appeared as soon as we were settled. He seemed very glad
| to see me, and patted my head kindly, talking familiarly of our separa¬
tion and of other matters. Twelve years ago I was told, in a stance,
| that the spirits would be able in the future to materialise gold and gems.
Last summer Joey told us the same. There were five of us in circle,
besides the medium. Joey said—“ Remember that I now tell you that
we shall by-and-by be able to materialise gems and gold. Do not men¬
tion what I say, but remember.” At a subsequent seance I spoke
to him of what he had said, and he replied—“ Forbidden subject,
mamma.”
At our sSance on the 14th inst. Joey said—“ I am now going to keep
my promise to materialise gold and gems.” He played his musical
instrument and conversed with us nearly an hour, when Ernest greeted
us, and asked that the medium should rest. We sat with Willie outside
! the curtain, with the light of our lamp. Willie seemed partially
entranced, but sometimes spoke. He sat near the black curtains that
| are suspended before the sofa, on which he reclines, and which form the
only cabinet we ever use. A tall female form, robed in white, put aside
the curtains, and Willie seemed drawn to her. She did not take hold of
him, but he moved to her, just as a somnambulist follows the mes-
meriser. For a little time they stood together before us, in a good light;
thenWillie lay down on the sofa, and she stood alone. Soon she retired;
| the curtains fell together; but quickly the one-armed spirit, Abdullah,
came forward. We were directed to have more light. We turned on
| the gas, so as to have sufficient light. He came very near to us, and
] allowed us to examine his jewels, that were amazingly rich. In my
i earnestness to see, and examine closely, I pressed against his solid form,
and said—“I beg your pardon,” as I would say to any gentleman.
Twice I pressed against the form of this man. He gave each one of us
i the privilege of examining his jewels, one in crescent form, the other
like a star. He wears diamonds, emeralds, and rubies. After him came
Joey, in a very becoming dress, which we had never seen him wear.
| He had a kind of hood upon his head. He sat at table, and asked for
j paper and a book, which were given him.
| For some time he moved his hands as if gathering something from the
I atmosphere, just as when he makes muslin. After some minutes he
dropped on the table a massive diamond ring. He said, “ Now you may
! all take the ring, and you may put it on, and hold it while you can count
twelve.” Miss M took it, and held it under the gaslight, and put it
| on her finger, and finally remembered to count twelve. Then I took it,
and examined it under the gaslight. It was a heavy gold ring, with a
| diamond that appeared much like one worn by a friend of mine worth
.£1,000. Joey said the value of this was 900 guineas. Mr. W—1—
examined it as we had done. He now made, as it seemed, and as he
said, from the atmosphere, two diamonds, very clear and beautiful, about
the size of half a large pea. He gave them into our hands on a piece
| of paper. We examined them, as we had the others. He laid the ring
! and diamonds on the table before him, and there next appeared a
| wonderful cluster of rubies, set with a large ruby about half-an-inch in
I! ^ j diameter in the centre. These we all handled as we had the others.
| Last there came a cross, about four inches in length, having twenty
| magnificent diamonds set in it; this we held in our hands, and examined
| as closely as we liked. Joey took them all, and put them in a paper and
j jingled them. He said, “ I might leave the ring as a keepsake for Willie,
but it might make him selfish.”
j He told us that the market value of the gems was £25,000. He
] remarked, “ I could make Willie the richest man in the world; but it
I would not be the best thing, and might be the worst.” He now took
I j the jewels in front of him, and seemed to dissipate them, as one might
I) j melt hailstones in heat, until they entirely disappeared. He talked all
|) i the evening, and some of his remarks went to my heart. I was begging,
||| as I often have, for a piece of drapery, or something that I could keep,
n| and I said almost petulantly, “You do nothing special for me.”
I Ml “Mamma, mamma!’’cried Joey, “for what did Ernest come to you
yesterday ? ” The fact was that the day before Ernest had, unasked
and unsought, given me information and counsel in a matter the im¬
portance of which could not be expressed, as we say it was emphatically
| a case of life or death. I was rebuked, as I deserved, and I said
j to Joey, “What Ernest told me yesterday was worth in¬
finitely more than all the gold and gems in the world.”
| “ What do I come for?” said Joey, and the thought pierced me that he
had watched over our children and friends. That he had been the
means of saving life, and of preparing souls for a holier and happier
| existence hereafter. How could I value gold and gems, or a paltry
piece of drapery, when eternal interests are at stake ? How poor we
should be if our heavenly Father "did not pity our weakness and folly,
and send ministering spirits to help us. One marked feature of this
I seance was, that at the close Joey brought Willie forward, and they
stood side by side, Willie in deep trance. Joey said, “ Now you see me
j with Willie.” We all responded that we saw both him and Willie.
“ Well, perhaps you are all biologised,” said he. Many persons think
that the medium personates the spirits dressed in muslin made in Man¬
chester, and imported into the seawce-room by occult, or usual means.
A few think the muslin is of spirit manufacture, but that there is no
materialisation of forms. Four times I have seen a white-robed form
| standing by Willie Eglinton. I have seen Joey make yards of muslin.
Oct. 26, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
201
I have seen him standing beside his medium, and I have heard him
speak in a brilliantly lighted room, when Mr. Eglinton was with us, and
no more entranced than the rest of us. I have seen hands, and arms,
and the face only, and I have seen full forms appear and disappear. I
have seen a tall man appear, and after many minutes with us, and in a
good light, I have seen him gradually sink down, and become invisible,
all but a few inches of form, and then that seemed to snap out. I have
seen a full form dissolve, and leave the garments suspended as if held up
by a hand; and I have seen the form shrink away to nothing visible,
and leave the garments lying along the floor. These not long after dis¬
appeared. All this and much more I have seen, and except for its use
in converting people to a belief in immortality, all physical phenomena
are to me insignificant as time compared to eternity, beside the spiritual
truths given us from the invisible world, and which involve the ever¬
lasting destiny of the human soul. Mary S. G. Nichols.
Aldwyn Tower, Malvern, 17th Oct. 1877.
CHARITY ORGANISATION.
Sir,—As you have opened your columns to a discussion on the policy
and principles of the Charity Organisation Society, I shall be glad if you
will allow me space to make a few criticisms on Mr. S. C. Hall’s recent
pamphlet on the subject. These criticisms, which I shall direct chiefly
to Mr. Hall’s own theory of charity, as far as we have any indications
of it, will enable me to bring out more clearly the aims and principles of
the society, and the special evils which it is intended to remedy.
In Mr. Hall’s view, as far as I can judge of it from the censures he
passes on the society, the sum and substance of charity is to be found
in the literal carrying out of the precept, “ Give to every man that
asketh of thee.” All who come to us professing to be in distress ought
to be relieved, and that without delay. If it be suggested that we ought
first to ascertain by visiting the home or making inquiry in other ways,
whether the distress is genuine, the answer would be that the distress
may be genuine and may be urgent, and if it is, while you are taking up
time in inquiry, the poor applicant may starve. Better run the risk of
being imposed upon—I imagine Mr. Hall would say—than the risk of a
single human being perishing through want.
The first remark I shall make on this theory is that it entirely ignores
the existence of the Poor Law. Can Mr. Hall be aware that there is a
state provision, maintained at a cost of eleven or twelve millions
annually, by which food to eat and a roof to shelter them are secured to
all who are without the necessaries of life ? It is true that in order to
prevent the abuse of this provision, certain regulations have to be made as
to the mode in which these necessaries are to be given, but the regulations
are not such as to nullify the benefits of the law, or to make it untrue to
say that by the law of England no one need starve. To discuss, therefore,
the duties of private societies and individuals, without considering the
important duties which the State has taken upon itself in this matter
of charity is to ignore, at least, half the conditions of the problem to be
solved. The second remark I would make is that Mr. Hall seems to
me to underrate the evil of imposture. Of this evil a very small part is
the mulcting of the pockets of the well-to-do; by far the larger part is
the demoralisation which would be caused in the class intended to be
benefited, by a series of successful impostures. If every one gave to all
comers without hesitation and without inquiry, there would be no limit
to the ingenious devices by which the sympathies of the public would be
played upon. Feigned illness, telegrams from dying relatives, urgent
needs of all imaginable kinds would be systematically resorted to, and,
if all did their duty according to Mr. Hall’s principles, with unvarying
success. The industrious poor, who are striving hard to live a life of
honest toil, would see their less scrupulous neighbours living in idleness
and comparative ease on the fruits of their deceptions, and would be
tempted at times to follow their example. In other words, we should be
throwing additional difficulties in the way of honest industry, and
offering a premium to fraud.
Now surely it cannot be right to act upon a principle which, if acted
upon universally, would lead to such results as these. It cannot be right
in the matter of charity, where the interests of others are concerned, to
set aside the common sense rule of conduct which bids us look before we
leap. It is just to enable the public to act systematically on this sound
maxim in charitable matters, that the Charity Organisation Society | j
exists. Few persons can undertake to give the necessary time and trouble |)
to an inquiry into every case of distress which comes before them, and j j
they are tempted either to give impulsively and unwisely, or to refuse i
with equal unreason. But here the society steps in and offers to under- ]
take the investigation for them. In every district in London it has its j <
office and staff of workers, of all creeds and classes, ready to attend to j j
every case of distress brought to their notice, tlrgent cases are sent at |)
once to a refuge, but to them, as to all, the principle of thorough invest!- j j
gation is applied, in order that after the need of the moment has been j 5
met, the deeper underlying causes of distress may also be met, and the j
recurrence of the poverty guarded against. Nor is personal care for the j
poor dissociated from the work of the society. . It does not offer a sub- j
stitute for individual charity; all the relief it gives it would gladly see j
given by individuals; it only offers its services for the purpose of ascer- | (
taining how the help may be best applied. It annihilates the excuse for j
hardheartedness, which arises from fear of deception, and at the same i
time stimulates real benevolence, by directing the best thought and j
attention of all to the removal of the causes of poverty. Much more |
may be said on the subject, but I feel that I have already trespassed too |
long on your space. John B. Hollond. |
October 16th, 1877.   j j
PROVINCIAL NOTES.—NO. III. }|
Sir,—In my last communication the reader had journeyed with me as |
far as Huddersfield.. In Wakefield Spiritualism has no public position, j |
though a good field is presented for mediums or lecturers. York was |)
"Tinted by au American trance speaker a year or two ago, but the work I j
) | does not appear to have been followed up since. Following the main
11 line northwards, and after expressing some surprise at the fact that
)| work on behalf of Spiritualism in such towns as Harrogate, Rip on,
)j Scarborough, and others of less importance in the vicinity of the above
s| localities, has never been attempted, since the field presents so many
ji advantages, we finally reach Darlington. Spiritualism at one time
) i excited not a little attention in this town; speakers frequently visited
y, it; well attended meetings were held; periodical gatherings of a social
)j character were convened, and were celebrated with good success.
| j During the past two years the above conditions have almost all departed,
j The subject excites but small interest, meetings are thinly attended, and
the local Spiritualists seem as if hampered by some restraint which
(| needs casting off. Bishop Auckland, adjacent to Darlington, seems also
) I suffering from a similar kind of blight; the society is dormant, the
) I friends listless and apathetic, circles few, and the interest generally at a
(I very low ebb. Three or four years ago this town spoke with no un-
)| certain sound; now its voice is silent. Why? That will best be
) | answered in future notes. Stockton-on-Tees has lately made an effort
| \ | to call attention to Spiritualism by instituting a series of Sunday
|) | evening services; the experiment is to be tried for three months, and, if
j )i successful, it is to be continued. Quite a strong body of investigators
| \j exists in Stockton; people in good position give attention to the subject,
j) j and several very excellent media have been developed. In the adjoin-
m ing towns of Middlesborough and Saltburn-by-the-Sea Spiritualism just
II manages to exist; in the latter town, though, it has the better chance.
| ) i Ferry Hill and Durham call for no special notice, while near to Durham
m are Chester-le-Street, Ouston, and West Belton, towns where quite an
] \ j interest has been created. The population being largely of a mining
i) j character, it is a pleasant reflection that Spiritualism has found so many
| j! earnest enquirers in the above places. If the local forces in the above
I) j districts could be united, much good would result. Reaching the Tyne
I) i district, Gateshead may be mentioned as containing a number of earnest
j j | and intelligent Spiritualists. Literature is in good demand, and though
|) j the movement has no means of publicly expressing itself, it is still
i) | strong enough to supply a numerous contingent to the meetings held in
| j i its sister town, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
j j j In this last-named town Spiritualism presents a front at present un-
|) j equalled by any place out of the metropolis; All the various phases of
[ ! spiritual phenomena are prevalent. Trance, physical, form, and other
I j | degrees of mediumship abound. The Newcastle-on-Tyne Psychological
III Society is the most successful provincial organisation; its prosperity is
i j amply attested by its last annual report, which recently appeared in
1)| your columns. Its meetings for seances, lectures, and discussions, are
m all well attended. The audience at its Sunday evening services, held
I \ | regularly every week, often numbers close upon two hundred. The
I) I range of speakers embraces normal and trance workers of alike local and
II general fame. A powerful work has been accomplished in the town,
j | Among the numbers that accept our facts, and believe them the work of
i )i spirits, could be enumerated a well-known gentleman in Newcastle of
]|| no mean scientific attainments, and an editor who is connected with a
j )l liberal daily paper. Altogether Spiritualism in “canny Newcastle”
|) i occupies a respectable and substantial position.
||l Newcastle fills the condition of being a local centre of a very populous
i jj district, and in many of the smaller towns around, Spiritualism is well-
III known. On the south side of the river Tyne are Gateshead, already
mentioned, also Jarrow and South Shields, and stretching round the
| j Tyne mouth to the south we come to Sunderland. In each of these
j ji places Spiritualism has a certain standing. In Jarrow the movement is
hi not strong enough to manifest any public action. In South Shields a
j j | local circle, called “ The Excelsior Circle,” holds regular meetings on
I f Sundays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays, the phenomena exhibited being
! j | chiefly in the form of trance mediumship. In Sunderland there is no
i i organised society, but Spiritualists are fairly numerous and occasionally
| j | hold public meetings for lectures. The local press, the Sunderland
I (| Echo and the Daily Post, give favourable reports. In South Shields the
columns of the local Daily Telegraph often contain letters on
the facts and philosophy of Spiritualism. The only place of note on
the north bank of the Tyne—so far as Spiritualism is concerned—is
North Shields. There is no society. The numbers are few, but a
circle has lately been formed. The Spiritualists of the town usually
cross the river and attend meetings at South Shields. The two towns
face each other. They are quite easy of access.
North-east of Newcastle are Seghill, Bebside, and Choppington, three
mining villages, and Morpeth, a town of some size. In all the above
Spiritualism has obtained a footing. Lately the work of promulgation
has been rather at a standstill. Those who have taken an interest have
worked with much zeal; at present, though, their labours are all but
suspended. West of Newcastle your correspondent does not hear of
anything worth recording in these notes, until the West Coast is
reached. That will be treated subsequently. Before quitting the district
under notice, it may be mentioned that the Hartlepools, East and
West, are at present almost destitute of Spiritualism—no society, no
regular meetings, few Spiritualists, and fewer media. The old historic
town of Berwick-on-Tweed does not exhibit any indications of suffering
from an attack of Spiritualism, even in its mildest form. As the last-
named town is on the border-land between England and Scotland, your
correspondent will pause for the present. In his next communication
he will visit Scotland, and make a brief tour southwards by the way of
the West Coast.   X.
SPIRITUALISM IN IRELAND.
Sir,—My flying visit to the sister island is now finished. I have
many reasons to be gratified with the result of my travels during the last
four weeks. I gained much information during my stay, but having
pledged myself that that information obtained should not find its way
into print I have withheld much that would have been interesting to
your readers. I presume what cannot be helped must be endured, and
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 26, 1877.
202
I do hope that the time is not far distant when persons will be able to
say what they truly think and know, with less fear of giving offence to
“ Authority,” whether scientific or theological, than they do at present.*
Bad as England is in this respect, Ireland is worse. Almost the first
inquiry made about a visitor is “ Is he a Catholic or a Protestant ” ? If
a Protestant, “ What sect does he belong do ’’ ? But for a man to admit
he is a Spiritualist is simply to ostracise himself at once. “ Society ”
excludes him, and “ Authority ” anathematises him. It requires a man
of most independent stamp of mind to take up arms against such a sea
of troubles.
It is pleasing to know that such was the result of my humble efforts
as a mesmerist, that at no distant period my visit will be renewed, at the
request of gentlemen whose position in the literary and scientific world
prevent me at present making use of their names ; and in obedience to
their request and urgent desire I will give a series of public lectures on
the subject of mesmerism in the principal towns of the “ Green Isle,’’
as soon as my present English engagements and contracts are fulfilled.
Belfast was my last stopping place. It was here that the subject of
mesmerism was first introduced to public notice through the efforts of
my sincere friend, Dr. Berry, of Donegall-street. Dr. Darling, the
American “Electrobiologist” made his first bow to a public audience in
the round room of the Rotunda some thirty years ago through the agency
of the same gentleman.
Zymoski and Stone, the only mesmerists of any note, who have ap¬
peared in Ireland since then, will not forget the spirited manner in
which this gentleman acted, who was then the proprietor of two Dublin
papers and Portobello Gardens.
This gentleman is deeply interested in the subject of Spiritualism, but
not having the opportunities for investigation of his more favoured
brethren in the metropolis, he is scarcely committed in the matter,
therefore cannot be called a Spiritualist. Of phenomenal Spiritualism
he knows little, but not so with its ethics and philosophy with which he
is thoroughly acquainted, and it fills a void in his astute mind, which
the creedalism of rampant theology could never occupy. Dr. Berry was
most anxious to do by me as he had done with the lecturers already
named, that is, support me financially and aid me by his influence. I
regret I had to decline, as the pressing nature of my engagements pre¬
vented me from accepting his very kind offer.
I mention this simply to show that there is a spirit abroad even in
Ireland, that makes an interest in such tabooed subjects as mesmerism
and Spiritualism.
I am sorry I could not remain longer in Belfast than I have, as it
prevented me attending as many seances as I might have done. I know
at least half a dozen circles held in this town, but how many more I
cannot say. People are prevented from speaking out from fear of Mrs.
Grundy and the devil. The latter, by the by, is a very important per¬
sonage here, and occupies a position almost equal to that of the Deity
Himself in the various pulpits. I listened to a very learned sermon last
Sunday in church, proving his existence and position from Scripture,
from which I was led to conclude it was also necessary to believe in
the devil before a man could be saved. Fear prevents a large number
from acknowledging that they are even investigating the subject of
Spiritualism. I attended two seances ; the first was at the residence of
Mr. John Scott, whose work and pamphlets I mentioned in my last
letter.
The principal phenomena consisted of inspirational speaking and
writing. There were two controls who gave no name, but were recog¬
nised ; one spirit claimed to be “ Channing,” another “ Chalmers; ’’
another, a right reverend gentleman, who had baptised Mr. Scott when
a child, according to the rites of the kirk, and somewhere in Ayrshire.
Another claimed to be his father, and, after referring to matters present
and past of a private nature, wrote his name in full, through the hand of
the medium. Mr. Scott said that there was a remarkable similarity
between it and the signature of his father. He was satisfied with it as
one of the many tests of spirit identity he had received, especially as
the medium neither knew his father nor his handwriting, nor was he
ever in the house before. The medium had a number of controls, very
distinct from each other, and to my mind affording evidence of the
presence of intelligences unseen to mortal gaze.
Mr. Scott introduced Spiritualism to a Belfast audience at the Corn
Exchange Hall, some twenty years ago, but at that time it was like
casting pearls before swine. The unfortunate medium was badly used—
the young sprigs of Galen from the Queen’s University, took the place
by storm, cheered, and made “cat-calls,” to drown the speaker’s voice;
finally the rougher elements, easily influenced by the example of the
college gentlemen, amused themselves by tying pocket knives to the ends
of their walking sticks, and sticking the medium in the legs under the
table while he was lecturing. The attention of the police was called to
this disgraceful state of affairs. They, in the discharge of their duty,
simply laughed at the sight, and thoroughly enjoyed the fun as they
called it. The poor medium thankfully escaped with his life. Mr.
Scott was escorted to his home, as his life was in danger also. The
mob brought the meeting to a satisfactory conclusion, to the intense
delight of themselves and the orthodox world, who had no room for
either mediums or spirits in their philosophy, by doing all the damage
they could to the hall, leaving Mr. Scott to pay the bill. Since then
there has not been any public attempt to advocate Spiritualism in
Belfast.
Belfast is undoubtedly the Eldorado of parsons and priests; every¬
thing and everybody are under their sway and influence. At birth,
marriage, the everyday concerns of life and death, they are omnipresent.
The one who would dare to do aught against their wish is a marked
man. Tyndall suffers for his Belfast address delivered several years
ago, from attacks by these pulpit fault-finders. They must be up and
doing, so when not preaching to their congregations, they are preaching
at some one else. Religious controversies are all the rage. Roman
* And with more independence of character on their own parts.—Ed.
! Catholicism and Protestantism, Trinitarianism and Unitarianism, Church
and Dissent, all keep hard at it, hurling anathemas at each other’s heads,
and are so busy finding “motes ” in each other’s systems, that they are
oblivious to the “ beams ’’ in their own: But notwithstanding their
differences, they would unite with each other, and present a firm front
of opposition did Spiritualism appear in the field.
The other seance I attended was very interesting, but I am not per¬
mitted to say anything about it.
Mesmerism would take well in Belfast as an amusement, not because
I the people believe in it, but from the desire to be entertained. Theatre¬
going is denounced Sunday after Sunday, as very sinful; they are, there-
| fore, compelled to take their relaxation by other methods. Concerts,
| lectures, entertainments, tea-parties, are very popular. Stone, the
biologist and phrenologist, did well here, so did Professor Fowler.
I think I have faithfully represented the state of affairs, as I have
i found it, from such observation as I could make whilst in Ireland. In
every instance where I have been requested to suppress names or facts
likely to create unpleasantness, I have so done; but I sincerely hope,
| before long, that there will be found more of that class who dare to be
honest to their convictions, let the consequences be as they may; and
when the worship of “ great names ” and those in authority, will become
a thing of the past.
Mesmerism and Spiritualism are treated as if synonymous subjects,
and it is not until they are faithfully and fairly placed before the public
that they will be able to discern the difference. To others, henceforth,
I shall leave the investigation of Spiritualism, and devote myself to
mesmerism as the self-appointed task of my life. For myself I ask
nothing, but for the subject I advocate I shall ask much. Whether
mesmerism be true or false, by the touchstone of science it must be
tried. Ifitcannot stand that test, let it for ever fall, and all its professors
with it. J. Coates.
Belfast. •
SPIRITUALISM IN BLACKBURN.
Sir,—Your correspondent “ X ” in his provincial notes observes—
“ In Blackburn Spiritualism has fallen down very much, crude methods
of presenting and investigating the phenomena being largely responsible
for the present decadence of the movement there.”
Your correspondent must he much mistaken, or he is badly informed.
Being, as one of the earliest adherents, acquainted with the progress of
the movement from its commencement in Blackburn, I am able to affirm
that there has been no crudeness in the method of presenting the subject
to the public. The ordinary means have been adopted, the subject has
found favour with a considerable number, many private circles have
been formed, at which undoubted and most reliable evidence of spirit
communion has been obtained, and I may safely state that a few hun¬
dred people have been more or less impressed with the truth of im¬
mortal life, who before held the notion but vaguely, and by the efforts
made many more have heard the philosophy propounded in lectures by
Messrs. Morse, Quarmby, and others, the former two being particularly
well received.
The most intelligent adherents of the cause are as firm as ever; their
convictions were formed from personal and family experience, and can¬
not be shaken by the shameful and degrading tricks that have been
palmed upon them by Miss Wood ; they hold that the gross dishonesty
of that so-called medium is the cause of any “ decadence” that may
have occurred, and not a defect in the manner in which the subject has
been presented to the public. Nor are they disposed to accept the plati¬
tudes and sophistry of the Medium and Daybreak in explanation or ex¬
tenuation of Miss Wood’s guilt. Subterfuge will not do for those who
have a knowledge of facts.
Let mediums be honest, manifestation or no manifestation; then the
spiritual atmosphere would soon be cleared, mere wonder hunters would
be disappointed, and mediums would preserve their integrity. The
cause is too sacred to be trifled with by such daring adventurers as Miss
Wood; if ever she had any mediumship, which I very much doubt, it is
lost. When she has been successful, as during her first visit to Black¬
burn, the simple solution is they did not detect her fraud.
  J. B. Stone.
METHODISTS AND MESMERISM IN HACKNEY.
Sir,—A mutual improvement association was a few months ago
formed at the Brookfield-road Primitive Methodist Church, South
Hackney, which seemed fair to succeed, it being understood that mem¬
bership was not conditional upon the acceptance or profession of the
theological views held by that section of Christendom.
Imagine, sir, my surprise, especially as I am a believer, and
hold sound doctrine, at the president placing his veto on my essay
on mesmerism, composed principally of extracts from valuable articles
which have appeared in your journal.
Heresy manifested itself, a lady actually denying the divinity of
Christ. A council was held by the superintendents of the circuit, a
11 \ letter from which to the class gave the alternative either to expel the
i (| obnoxious individual or dissolution. To the honour of the class, a
Is ^ | motion refusing to expel and condemnatory of this arbitrary proceeding
was carried unanimously.
Next Saturday, 27th, at eight o’clock, some members will meet to
form a new association at 80, Bentham-road, South Hackney. If there
be any readers of this paper in the locality, perhaps they will come over
and help us. Charles Rhys.
6, Field View, London-fields, E,, Oct. 22nd, 1877.
MATERIALISATION OF SPIRIT HEADS AND SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS IN THE DARK.—
NO. XIV.
Sir,—To my regret, I have not yet received the queries from the
“ Research Committee ” which I had been led to expect, relating to the
notion which seems to have sprung up among a few over in London,
that our moulds and busts may perhaps have been derived from
Oct. 26, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
03
plaster casts, or marble busts, brought iu as apports by fraudulent
“ elementaries ” or other lying spirits. I hope they will be sent without
further delay, because I am liable to be any day (now that these French
elections are over) called away to California in a hurry; and, though
very much crowded with occupation, I wish to meet them fully and
categorically before I leave.
In the matter of our photographs in the dark, I have only to report
that we are going on getting marvellous things, interspersed amidst
failures to get anything but confused impressions on the plates. There
is something wrong in our machine, or in the working of it—in the
objective, or in the focussing, or in the employment of the different
diaphragms, or in the proper time for the poses. For instance, when
the Count, in the black dark room, appoints five minutes for the time,
which I in the next room mark by my watch, and call through the door,
we do not know how long the time of the pose has really been ; for
John King has told us that they have sometimes more or less difficulty
and delay in forming the materialised spirit to be set up in front of the
camera. It is thus pretty much a matter of rule-of-thumb (and very
uncertain at that) how long the real pose is of the fully materialised
spirit, and how the details of the apparatus ought to be adapted to the
time of the real pose. And the time is of the essence of the operation.
There is also the question of the “aberration” in connection with the
focussing and the objective. We get forms quite good and well
defined in the middle, yet dark and confused, and scarcely distinguish¬
able in the outlying parts, head, and lower extremities. You see the
Count is not a “ professional ” in photography, and we cannot employ
wet collodion (much more quickly sensitive, but requiring to be imme¬
diately used) for want of the conveniences on the spot. And further,
as we are told, the spirit form set up before the instrument sometimes
is unable to “ hold together ” long enough, its particles of matter falling
away, or collapsing, or dispersing. We have had forms of perfect
beauty and perfect grace, floating in the air, in a kneeling posture, or
in a reclining one—again draped only with their hair, and their spirit
innocency, unconscious of nudity—and yet with their faces quite un-
distinguishable, so that we cannot even know who they are. We can
only go on with patient perseverance and experimentation, assured, and
believing, that we shall finally get them as perfect as any photographs
taken from nature in the sunlight. These photographs of the heavenly
innocence of a high plane of spirit life are only for the Count and
Countess. Not even am I allowed to have copies of them (though I can
see them on the plates and on the proofs), because I am not to be
trusted not to show them to outsiders.
There is something in this, it seems, too sacred for the multitude of
our earth plane. Nothing can be more modest and innocent and
original than these poses, and nothing more perfect and beautiful than
the forms, so far as they are formed, for none of them have yet been
complete. On the whole, I have witnessed enough to have my mind
penetrated with the belief that in the higher planes of spirit life there
exists no need nor reason, material or moral, for those draperies which
(according to the allegorical myth of Eden) only began after sin and
conscious shame had entered into the life of humanity.
I do not witness these things inside of the seance and photographic
room, my part being that of timekeeper outside, where I can have the
light to note the minutes on my watch. But the Count has once seen
the entire form in profile kneeling in the air (illuminated by John
King’s light), as it was about to be presented before the camera. I
could hear his exclamations of how beautiful it was, which he after¬
wards explained to me. I rather fancy that I am regarded as not
quite spiritually-minded enough to be allowed to witness them,
just as I am not allowed to have copies of the photographs of
them. I am not quite sure about this. It was only once
that the Count thus saw the spirits about to be photographed.
On all other occasions there is nothing but the black dark ; and he has
no idea of what will turn out to appear on the plates till they are
developed at Fontaine’s, the photographer. John King never seems to
know himself how the plates will result, for he frequently tells the
Count to take the medium with him to see them developed, and so as
to enable him to see them too, -for that he will also go.
A point worth noting. Firman has had for some days a bad cold
in the head, affecting his voice. The other day, when John King
began to talk as usual (he always begins by asking how we are, and the
Count often returns the polite inquiry), he said, “ I have got a cold
and a headache ; I feel as though I had apiece of meat in my throat, which
I cannot get either up or down.'1' Your always inquisitive correspondent
(a critical habit which John King is often impatient with) said, “You
have a cold ! Why, can you have colds there 1 ” “ Have not I ex¬
plained this to you often enough ? ” And then he went on to expound,
what I understood well enough, how he got the elements for his voice
out of the medium’s vocal organs, and, if they were in a deranged con¬
dition, the effect must be apparent in him too. But this was not what
my question had meant; it went further than the mere influence on j
the intonations of his voice ; it referred to his having “ a cold,” and |
headache, and feeling as though he too had a congested throat. The j
next day I referred back to this, and asked him whether he equally
shared or sympathised in any other ailments the medium might happen j
to be suffering from in other parts of his body. “ If, for instance, he
had a colic, would you feel the pain too ? ” “ Certainly, if I jormed ]
that part of my body” Thus, if Firman’s feet were swathed in gouty
flannels, John King, if materialised down to his feet inclusive,
might feel twinges suggestive of a place which neither he nor I j
believe in.
Oct. 21.—Our seances are now interrupted, Firman having been
called over by telegram to England, to what is feared to be the death¬
bed of his mother. I have above mentioned a noble figure of John f
King reclining in the air, photographed in the dark. I was mistaken j
in saying that the figure rested on the elbow. It at first suggests that j
impression, but it is not so, The figure simply floats in the air, in a r
graceful and majestic position. We have since obtained another some¬
what similar one, not yet transferred to paper by the photographer, but
said by him to be much better, as a photograph, than the former. The
face is clearer and the feet complete, those extremities being the parts
which suffer from the ‘ ‘ aberration,” owing to the large size of the plates
and the short focal distance.
I have not yet received the “ queries ” of the Research Committee in
regard to the moulds and busts, but hope they will come so as to enable
me to respond in your next number. Otherwise they may probably
come too late.
The other day took place a good verification of the honesty of
Firman as a writing medium. He generally writes, at the close of the
stance, in a dashing hand, for “ John King; ” occasionally for “ Grlaucus,”
the writing in the latter case being backward, but rapid, and only legible
when read through the paper, from behind. The other day the Count
had brought a lot of paper to be mesmerised by Glaucus for the relief of
pain (this in pursuance of previous arrangement). The paper had been
cut into uniform pieces of about five by three inches, and was white.
The package of it was taken by John King into the cabinet, where
Firman was asleep. John King presently asked for a pencil, which the
Count gave him. “ I have now given the paper and the pencil to Glaucus,”
he said. In a few moments he handed both back. When the candle
was lighted at the close, we found that two of the sheets had been
covered with writing, in the well-known backward writing of Glaucus,
and signed as usual “ Glaucus Vale'' The lines were close and
correctly parallel, filling the page space but not overrunning it. It was
writing impossible for fraud to have performed in the dark. I cannot tell
you its contents, for as soon as I began (indiscreetly) to attempt to
decipher it, raps under the table called for the alphabet, and I was told,
“ It is private." It was meant solely for the Count.
Oct. 22.—Have seen to-day the last photograph of John King, above
| mentioned, reclining and floating in the air, very nearly the same pose
as in the preceding similar one, and the figure of about the same length ;
a much better and more distinct photograph, except as to the face. The
photographer says that that was moved a little; the figure nude in its
upper and lower parts ; his well-known “ lamp ” present in both, but
more distinct in outline in the latter; the drapery dark in the
one while light in the other; the lower limbs rather slender than
heavy, and the natural hair on them, as in life, unmistakable;
while in the preceding one we were left uncertain whether the
marks seeming to represent a somewhat hirsute condition did not
perhaps proceed from the defects of the collodion; the hands
and feet quite distinct. The Association will receive copies of
both. These phenomena of forms floating in the air and photographed
in the dark (with variations every time) are perfectly crushing to those
who will never give in to spirits. Why do not you try for these things
over there, too (as I have before urged in regard to moulds and busts)
through Williams, who is certainly assisted by the same spirit medium,
commonly called “ John King.” And when you get them invite Tyndall
and some photographers to come and put their own fresh plates in the
camera, and then stand beside it in the dark, and then develops and print
the results for themselves. It would force even him to become a
Spiritualist, just as a worse recalcitrant against a new truth was once
forced, on the road to Damascus. J. L, O’Sullivan.
Rue Solferino, Paris.  
ASTROLOGY.
Sir,—From reading the letters which have recently appeared in The
Spiritualist on the subject of astrology, I have become much interested
in the science, and should feel greatly obliged by your allowing me to
ask “ Aldebaran ” if he will kindly give me the title and price of the
book, close application to which for a short time will enable the student
to “ read the various schemes he erects with facility and correctness,” or
that of any cheap elementary work on the subject. Eliza Boucher.
Albion Yilla, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
Sir,—The interest in this subject may be inferred from the several
private letters I have received from strangers in relation to it since the
publication of the correspondence in The Spiritualist. I would ask
leave to correct the impression that I know anything of the subject, or
am at all qualified to direct the studies of inquirers.
Encouraged, however, by “ Aldebaran,” I have during the last few
weeks learned to erect a figure, and to put a question to the stars.
Writing now, about two hours before the probable decision of the only
question respecting which I have inquired, I hope to place my predic¬
tion in your hands in time to take it out of the category of prophecies
after the event, although for your readers, who will not see it until
published (if you think it worth publication), ii; will seem to have that
character.
On the loth inst., a friend being interested in the success of a certain
horse—Rosy Cross—in the Cambridgeshire Stakes (to be run for this
day at 2.50 p.m. at Newmarket), it occurred to me to test the value of
horary astrology in the hands of a beginner. . Fixing, according to the
directions of Lilly, upon the moment when the resolution to erect a
figure was formed, I have since drawn one for 11.55 a.m. (clock time),
or I2h. 14m. 14s. (Oh. 14m. 14s.) time, on the 15th. And this is the
result. The houses chiefly concerned are the second (for gain), the fourth
(for theereni),the fifth (for gambling), the seventh (contention and victory),
and the twelfth (for the horse). The first, of course, is assigned to the
querent, whose significators are Saturn and the Moon. Saturn is in
the house of Jupiter in conjunction with Mars, and is lord of this second,
the house of Gain. Jupiter is in the twelfth house, which is his own
(Sagittary). He is in trine aspect to the Sun, who is “ disposed of” by
Venus, she being in the eleventh, or house of Hopes, and she is found
in one of the signs of Jupiter, who thus “ disposes of” her. As I read
these positions, Jupiter should absorb good influences from Verius and
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 26, 1877.
the Sun, and impart them to Saturn, the querent’s planet, and to the
horse, which he signifies. Venus also is lady of the fourth, the house
of the event of the race, and casts a good aspect to the Moon (the con-
significator of the querent), as does also Mercury, likewise from the
house of Venus. Moon is in the ascendant house, and also lady of
seventh—the house of Victory, as also of the opponents—she is in a
sign ruled by Saturn—the only decidedly evil aspects that I can dis¬
cover is the opposition of the Sun to the “ Part of Fortune ” (which is
also cadent), and the conjunction of Mars with one of the significators of
the querent. But the influence of the Sun is modified as above-men¬
tioned. Some of the testimonies are weak, but, on the whole, they seem
to me remarkably significant of success. I am somewhat confirmed in
this conclusion by having lately seen a map of the nativity of the
querent (drawn by “Raphael”), whereby it appears that the Moon,
which in my figure is one of his significators, and in the ascendant, well
fortified, is his ruling planet. Would “ Aldebaran ” say that I was
right in advising the querent not to f‘ hedge ” his bet ?
I should add that at the time of the figure the betting against
Rosy Cross was about ten to one, though now she has become first
favourite at five to one. C. C. Massey.
October 23rd, 1877 (1 p.m.).  
ME. MORSE’S SOIREE.
Sir,—Will you kindly publish the amount Mr. Morse received from
his benefit soiree, and the names of the ladies and gentlemen who
kindly specially contributed towards his benefit. The total sum he
received was £16, after all expenses were paid. The special subscrip¬
tions were: Mr. C., £10 ; C. P. G., £2 ; Mr. Adshead, £1 ; Mr.
Alexander Tod, <£-1; Mr. Thorn, £1; Mrs. Tebb, £1; Mr. Massey,
10s.; Mr. Stone, of Blackburn, 10s.; Mr. Lamont, 5s. ; Mr. N., 10s.;
A Friend, by Mr. Morse, 10s. : Mr. Regan, 5s.: Miss, D., 2s. 6d.
Agnes Maltby.
REINCARNATION.
Sir,—The gentleman who was aforetime V a savage babe-eater in
Saturn,” and now appears, in your issue of the 28th ult., as an unknown
quantity, “ X,” will have, I fear, to be “ clad with that vest of Nessus
called the flesh” again and again ere he will realise the fact that there
are beings, in and out of the flesh, who are silly, lying, weak, mis¬
chievous, and credulous; and that nine-tenths of “ spiritual communi¬
cations’’ do not originate with spirits at all, but emanate from the
brains of imaginative, excited, and vain sensitives, under a kind of
hypnotism, and mesmeric influence of their open-mouthed devotees in
the flesh. (If our opponents think that all Spiritualists believe that
every mediumistic phenomenon is produced by spirits, let them be
informed that Mr. A. J. Davis, a Spiritualist and medium, wrote, years
ago, in his book called Penetralia, to the effect that the agency of a
disembodied spirit is represented by only a tenth part of the phenomena
he may have excited.)
“ X,” in answer to the question, How is it that spirits deny reincar¬
nation ? says: “ They deny it to those who are not willing to receive, or
capable of receiving, the fundamental truth,” Exactly. The medium
confirms the predominating views of the people present. If we have
learnt anything of mediumship, we have learnt this fact—the action,
conscious and unconscious, of mind on medium; and yet enthusiasts,
under the influence of a dominant idea, shut their eyes to it. “ The
Calvinist smells brimstone in the perfume of every rose, and sees total
depravity in the smile of every infant.”
“X” says that “ the receptability of spiritual truths is not very great
in the Anglo-Saxon race.” If he means that the generality of English
people do not take to Spiritism, I thank him for the information; though
I protest against this narrow use of the term “ spiritual truths.” To
hear some talk, one would suppose that none but a Spiritualist has an
eye open for spiritual truth, nor a heart to receive it.
Those who love truth, and seek all knowledge that pertains to the
higher life (by which I mean, not the life to come, but thought-life and
affectional life in their purest forms) are busy folks, and can well afford
to let idlers who inhabit cloud-land forage out “ information ” from their
equally idle “ spirit-guides ” on the number of their incarnations, their
follies in previous existences, the fashions in houses and hats in the
summer-land, and so forth.
I hope, sir, that no casual readers of your paper, who are also
inquirers into the important and interesting science of Spiritualism,
will suppose that “X ” speaks for any but himself, when he says that
Professor Tyndall and other men of science who oppose Spiritualism
“ get nothing at siances, because they do not go after truth, but after
error.” The reason why they get nothing satisfactory is, of course,
because they do not go to seances enough. “X” says, “They are
incapable of swallowing one atom of spiritual food.” How offensive
and silly this is! Here, again, is “ spiritual ” used in the narrow and
pettifogging sense of relation to the other world. The food of the spirit
is that which sustains its vigour and enlarges its powers. The spirit
manifests itself in the phenomena of intelligence and affection, and its
food is knowledge and love.
On “X’s” showing, Messrs. Tyndall, Huxley, Lewes, &c., are lower in
the scale of spiritual progress (i.e., of knowledge and love) than him¬
self, because they are “ youngsters ” in the number of their reincarna¬
tions : whereas “ X ” has been at the reincarnating business for at least
forty centuries. It is because they are such youngsters that they cannot
“ understand spiritual things,” therefore their religious status is inferior
to that of any superstitious and immoral old woman who is a believer
of spirit-rapping.
Your correspondent, Mr, Gledstanes, speaks of Tien Sien’s reticence
on the subject of reincarnation as proof that he has nothing to say
against the dogma. To me, this reticence shows the power of Mr.
Morse’s mediumship--the power of sustaining the individuality of the
spirit, arid resisting the “ mental atmosphere ” of the audience.
j)j Your correspondent seems to think that John King’s contradictory
| ! statements respecting himself prove that he has had more than one in-
] S i carnation. To a simple-minded and ordinary person like myself (who has
uj heard that worthy contradict himself on a score of matters upon which
||| one would suppose he could not have two opinions), the conflicting
jj statements show that a John King manifestation is a compound thing, to
m the formation and colouring of which a diversity of influences from more
I (| than one quarter contribute.
II Let me commend to “X,” and to that little (very little I hope),
|(| “group of Spiritists at Bordeaux who know all about their previous
j ji existence,” Professor Gregory’s book on mesmerism, and other works on
)| that subject. Let me also advise them to study the less difficult
| | phenomena, before they theorise on the more difficult.
j I feel, sir, that I ought to apologise for taking up so much of your
| | space in noticing the remarks of the gentleman (who lost his head some
j I years ago) on the “ French Folly.” D. H. W.
;|| SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENA.
|U Sir,—By invitation yesterday I attended a seance with Mr. W.
| I Eglinton and F , to try to obtain slate-writing. Having procured
| ! three slates, one 6 inches by 8 inches, the other two 8 inches by 12
j | inches, we sat in our usual seance room at Aldwyn Tower, and first had
i j rather a lengthy chat with one of the guides of the medium in the direct
j | voice. Then I obtained a light, and F , with myself, cleaned the
i I slates. Having a gimlet hole bored in each corner, they were tied very
| | firmly together with a separate and peculiarly coloured string, making it
! | impossible to tamper with the inner sides of the slates without cutting
| i. the four well secured corners. For the satisfaction of F , who had
| | never seen this form of manifestation before, I gave the slates a final
i i rubbing with my handkerchief the moment before securing them, and
i (i having placed a small crumb of pencil between the two, tied them down,
| | and was perfectly satisfied that it would be a complete test if writing
I | appeared on the inner sides. She marvelled how the spirit could write
I l with so small a piece of pencil.
j ! I then took the tied slates in my two hands, and kept them moving
! two feet from the table, in the full light all the time. Mr. Eglinton had
! | hold of two corners and I two. In a moment we could hear the tiny
I | scrap of pencil rapidly traversing within the closed slates. So distinct
111 was the sound that we could hear the dotting of the i’s and the crossing
| j I of the t’s. Within two minutes the sound of writing ceased, and I cut
j | the four knotted corners of the slates open. One slate was covered from
| i top to bottom, lengthways, with minute writing, but as plain as copper-
jjj plate, each letter being distinct in itself; there were 186 words. The
| | message was as follows :—
If “ On the shores of spirit-land. My wife, Anna, greeting,—Darling:
| j [ My work in Cardiff still progresses. Drunkenness must be rooted out
! | from that town. With God’s help, I may be able, as a spirit, to help
I | those who, unfortunately, cannot help themselves. Cheer up! for the
j (! cause which you have so much at heart must, in the end, be triumphant.
111 Under the able care, as you are, of your friend Mrs. Nichols, you can do
l|| your work in safety and peace, as I do mine. God grant my children
! (| may see their faults, and the error of their ways, before it is too late to
| i turn back. Little Franky must be a dutiful boy, and Mary must be so,
i ! likewise, or they will for ever be irretrievably in fault; and ask them to
| ( recollect, faulty children do not come to us. Anna, my presence with
| j you to-night is to show to you and the outside world what we can and
II will do. Give my spiritual regard to Mrs. Nichols. God for ever bless
I ( you. My ways are altered now, Anna.—Yours, Sam’l. Wilkes.”
j | The other side was half-full of writing, from corner to corner, and
II contained 140 words, of a more private character. This writing is the
| ( most perfect test I have ever seen, for I cleaned, fastened, and held the
i [ slates firmly myself, and they were never out of my sight an instant,
i j We were to still receive more manifestations. The small slate was
i | then held under the table, with a long pencil resting on it. Mr. Eglinton
i i this time held one corner, and I the other. We obtained several mes-
ij sages in this manner: one was a sharp rebuke to F , who complained
| because the writing was not so perfect as it had been on the large closed
| slates.
We now placed a blank sheet of paper and lead-pencil on the table,
under the cloth, and laid our hands on the table. We heard writing,
and on looking, found “ Your Aunt Lucy is here ” traced upon the
| paper.
Our seance ended by the musical box being put under the table with
! the lid closed; I held Mr. Eglinton’s feet and one of his hands, F 
| held the other, and in full light the box was stopped, set going, played
! fast and slow at command, and signalled answers; then hands (one I
knew well) touched us, bringing to mind the words,
Oh for the touch of a vanished hand,
And the sound of a voice that is still.
I wish to say a word or two about my husband, whose message is
| given. Soon after he passed away from our midst, he told me, through
| the lips of Miss Rhondda Williams, that he would seek a true, good,
| honest medium, through whom he could materialise. He found Mr.
| Eglinton. Twice I saw him at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s; last
| October he materialised here in the presence of Dr. and Mrs. Nichols
and myself, and was the same living Samuel Wilkes as of old. He has
been twice photographed—once with his medium, Mr. Eglinton, by his
| side. Anna Wilkes.
! Aldwyn Tower, Malvern, 21st October, 1877,
j - ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS,
i (j E. (Southampton).—To try experiments in the mesmerising of animals, make
! I j passes over them in accordance with the instructions recently given by
r Captain James in these pages, how to mesmerise human beings. The
|(| results of experiments will be, published,
Oct. 26, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not In any way connected with each
other.]
PKIMITTVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
’ who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. 6d.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by tbe Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the sendees of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by tbe late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ahility, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by tbe Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science: the Spirit! and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation Is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote,during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, ios. ed.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 560 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testunony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
24 0
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spirituaiist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . -7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China >to India (400 a.d. and 618 A.n.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B A, Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . . 10 0
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 0
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D.,'LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . ... 1 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . • . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 fl
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by tbe
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIESOFINFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Canaille Flammarion. 6s.
OPINIONS OF THE PKESS.
“As a dispassionate seientifle man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are'accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be ■
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—(Sow(A Wales Daily
News
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s. _
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Bussell Street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Ot. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IY. „ . ,
The Thinker. „ V\ „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
.Morning Lectures . , '• •
s. d.
. 16 0
. 7 (
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
.20
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
.76
. 7 6
.60
. 6 0
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 e
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” the hair
beautifier,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
/< is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267,High Holborn,
London, W.O.; or of Mr. JOHN Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 26, 1877,
HE GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAT.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may he set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PitINCE
ALBEET THE GEEAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
MESMEEISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.E.S.E., Professor oj
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
INQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PEEVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not he as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to he preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must he struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FEUIT SALT; the information is
invaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GEEAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks, of fever, ENO’S FEUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.’’—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TEAVELLING TEUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END'S FEUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, EEFEESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGOEATING BEVEEAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VAEIOUS FOEMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Bheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FEUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FEUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping ihe system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.E.C.S., L. A.C., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will he very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“Ifeel quite certain, if your FEUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not he limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say too much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get italmostalwaj srecommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Eue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BEEAL."
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Pan's—PHAEMACIE DE BEEAL, 14, EUE
DE LA PAIX
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d, per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTEE IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTEE II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTEE III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Eeading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence or a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of.Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Eegard to Absent Persons
—Betrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTEE V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Betrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions In
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method ana its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcrait, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions'—Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
hulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to he Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIIIProduction of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced, without the Knowledge of the
' Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin • Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W, H. Harrison, 38, Great Eussell-street, "W.O.
1SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutzb. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
OAEPENTEE’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Eussel Wallace, F.L.8. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belucci, Florence, and other schools, will, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in her studio,
19, Holland-street, Kensington, Moderate prices to mediums
and Spiritualists.
WL. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 161, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address 0.
Carter Blake,32, Great Ormond-street, W.O.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo. richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—i. The Castie 5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6, The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10, The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. ” Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother-in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joel”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay Of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to he rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw BalladsNo one can help laughing
at them.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to he expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.li. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but ihe members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is "bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Eussell-street, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Eussell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOE THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Oloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Established in 1869. .’. .
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
Ay crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Fivd
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is hot usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding. ....
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to he addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wedtetday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for qne year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bkveridgb & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.Q,
