Registered as a Newspaper.
Ifrtopp: Mt| in ($xmt %xitm.
No 406.—(Yol. XYL—No. 23.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JUNE 4, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HAFTOYEE PLACE, EEGrENT’S PAKK, LONDON, N.W.
. Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and. of all Booksellers.
An interesting Boole to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms ■will be found in the catalogue.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Will be Published in a few days, containing striking selections from the writings of Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., Mr. A. R. Wallace, F.R.G-.S., The Committee oe the Dialectical Society, Professor Hare, of Philadelphia,
Professor Z6 llner, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Captain R. F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The w«rk will also eontain some useful information for inquirers.
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Jus$ Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years> experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited witn Having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch. Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 4, 1880.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). Erom the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubner and Co., London.
Just -Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stemway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
A. New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing.
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
Very Stylish in
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS
DR. JAMES MACK,
37, UPPER BAKER STREET, REGENT’S
PARK.. At Home from 10 till 6.
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLEBGYMAN ON SPIBITU ALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
D. YOUNGER,
Mesmerist, Mesmeric Healer, Medical Rubber,
gives private instructions. Mesmeric Seances and
Electro-biological Entertainments at Home or by
appointment. Can also supply Mesmeric Sensitives
for Private Experiments, At Home daily from 2 till 10.
Moscow House, 45, Moscow-road, Bayswater, W.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till '5 o’clock.. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
1\/rRS. WOODFORDE Any form
J-U. Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL
PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY, LITERATURE AND ART.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
v_^ DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, -Fop-
stone- road, Earls-court, S.W.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to u The Proprietors of i The Theosophistf ”
at the above address.
Post Free, Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. . Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“ M.A. '(OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
rPO LET FURNISHED, Respect-
JL able and Healthy Apartments, overlooking the
Park. Suitable for two Gentlemen, (Friends or
Brothers), partial Board if required. Terms Moderate.
No Children. Five Minutes from Bus, Tram, or
Rail, 275, Grove Villas, Victoria Park Road, N.E.
References Required.
A RLISS ANDREWS, Letterpress,
Copperplate and Lithographic Printer, 31,
Museum Street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Three doors
from Great Russell Street.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Phis book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
allegorical sketches,
xtL founded on spiritual truths.
1. The Inward Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. '3. The
Two Voices. 4. The Invisible Teacher. Price Is. 6d.
Victoria Steam Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.
riHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\0 WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Eai thenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Orawford-street, Bryanston-square, London.
(#
No. 406.—YOLIJME SIXTEEN; XUMBEB TWENTY-THEEE.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas op Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
op Caithness
The Baroness Von Vay, Coun¬
tess Wurinbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Axsakop,
Baron Von Dircxxnck-Holm-
peld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon,First
Lieut, of the Dutch Guard to
H.M. the King of the Nether¬
lands
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
St. Petersburg I William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart. C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., M.A., (Oxon)
F.R.G.S., R. Friese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
C. C. Massey, Esq. J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of Epes Sargent, Esq.
the Psychological Society of Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
Great Britain J.P.
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres-1 Dr. George Wyld
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
of the Theosophical Society of C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
New York
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev, C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
C Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Markley, Esq.
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Inst.
Esq.,
B.A.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
I Algernon Joy, Esq., M.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.,
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marryat
Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at S3, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocoa, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 61, East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S.; Religio-Bhilosophical Journal Offiee, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; ,325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on plication.
JUNE 4th, 18 8 0.
“LITTLE LOUIE.”
The performances of Professor Heriott and
his daughter “ Little Louie ” at the Eoyal
Aquarium and at various places in London and
the provinces, have raised the question in the
minds of some who have seen them, whether
genuine or artificial psychical phenomena are
presented by them. Professor Heriott calls the
entertainment u second sight,55 and beyond that
says nothing about its nature.' Little Louie,
blindfolded on the platform, instantaneously
describes any article put into the hands of her
father while he is off the platform and among
the observers, and this is not done by the well-
known trick of a question being so worded that
the alleged sensitive shall know what reply to
give. At times, when her father is silent, she
will go on describing articles in his hands, to
the extent of reading mottoes, dates, and de¬
scribing minute blemishes in the workmanship.
Her replies instantaneously follow, without a
pause, any question put by her father. It is
not done by the clever plan sometimes used in
such entertainments, of connecting the feet of
the performers by telegraphic wires beneath
the floor, so that by u accidentally55 taking
his stand at places where there are small
electrical buttons in the wood of the flooring,
the adult operator with thin elastic soles on
his boots, can signal with his toes, thus pro¬
ducing vibrations at wbl below the right or
left foot of the sensitive on the platform, and
signalling by the Morse telegraphic code
any words desired. Hot only is the time too
short for this method, but the points of little
Louie’s feet barely touch the floor -as she sits
in her chair, and are frequently off the floor
altogether.
A power exists, as in the example publicly
shown some years ago by Mr. Sheldon Chad¬
wick and his sensitive Miss Montague, of
making a mesmeric subject utter to a public
audience any words a mesmerist wills.
Whether Professor Heriott’s entertainment is
of this description we do not feel called upon
to express an opinion, having witnessed but
one of the performances, of ten or fifteen
minutes duration. Professor Heriott then
266
THE SPIRITUALIST.
told us that Louie could not tell the number (1
of wax vestas in a box in his hands, unless he |>
knew the number himself. What we wit- l>
nessed that evening might have been done by K
mesmeric influence, or, on the other hand, it !?
might have been done artificially by a portion f
of the answers required being indicated by I
the wording of the questions, and the more |
lengthened and minute descriptions being I
given only in respect to articles furnished by j
confederates.
Mr. Frank Buckland has written the fol- |
lowing description in Land and Water of one j
of Little Louie’s entertainments :—
“ A little girl, aged about ten, is placed in [>
a chair on a dais in front of the audience.. V
Her father blindfolds her eyes with a handker- I
chief. He then moves about the audience, j?
and requests the loan of any object the visitor j)
—selected at random—may happen to have Is
in his or her possession. He asks the child k
what he has got in his hand, and the little |?
thing answers immediately, never in any case -!)
making a mistake. I give the questions and Is
answers that were given when I was present, k
Father: What is this I have in my hand]? J<
Child : A match box. What is it made of ? $
Silver. Anything peculiar about it ? Opens |<
with a secret spring. (The father opens it.) k
What’s inside of it ? Wax matches. The |>
father goes to another person. What is this ? jS
A book. What book is it ? A very small j<
book. What does it contain ? An almanack, k
For what year? 1877. He then passes to j>
another. What is this ? A lady’s satchel. |>
What is it made of ? Sealskin. What are Is
the fastenings? Gilt. What is this? A |c
purse. What is it made of ? Ebonite. What |)
does it contain ? One coin. What is that |S
coin? Sixpence. What is this? A key- k
ring. What sort of a key-ring ? Split key- |?
ring. What’s on the key-ring ? A watch D
key. What sort of a watch key? Gilt top K
and steel end. What is this ? A railway <
ticket. What class ? First class. What is ?
the number on it? 1795. It then came to >
my turn, and I gave the father my scarf ring, jS
the like of which does not exist in London. K
He examined it carefully, and then proceeded u
as usual. What is this? A scarf-ring. Any- o
thing upon it? Yes. What? A model of is
a fish. What fish ? A salmon. Anything <
else ? An inscription. What is on the in- j>
scription? A date. What date? April 19 th, |J
1870. Now I am quite certain and positive |<
that this ring (made for me and presented by I
my friend Sachs, on which is a model of a
June 4, 1880*
23-lh. salmon caught at Gravesend), had
never been out of my possession since April,
1870, so that the father could have never set
eyes upon it before. The gentleman sitting
next to me then put an object into the father’s
hands. What is this? A whistle. What
sort of a whistle ? An American trick whistle.
Another gentleman then took a ticket from
his pocket. What is this ? A ticket. What
ticket ? A Co-operative Store ticket. What
is on it ? A number. What number ? 27,875.
“A friend of mine then put an object into
the father’s hands. What is this ? A breast
pin. What is on the top of it? A fish.
What sort of a fish ? A shell fish. What is
in the shell ? A pearl. What’s this ? A
seal. Anything on the seal ? A crest. Any¬
thing peculiar in the seal ? Cracked across.
And so on for several other objects. Never
on one occasion did the child make a mistake.
That collusion between the audience and the
father existed was perfectly impossible, as he
walked about freely among the people. Some¬
times his back was towards his daughter,
sometimes he was at a considerable distance
from her. It was impossible there could
have been any communication by means of
speaking tubes or other mechanical apparatus,
nor could the child possibly see the objects.
The question was put so often in the same
form of words, such as “ What is this ?” that
I cannot understand how it is done. It
really was interesting to see this mite of a
thing puzzle so many assembled visitors.
“ At the end of every answer she repeated
f papa.’ Thus, ‘A ring, papa,’ ‘A seal, papa.’
This papa and his very clever little daughter
whose name is little Louie, deserve to be
patronised. Children just now are becoming
preternaturally learned. If we are to have
children like this young lady there will not
be much need for School Boards, and nobody
hut Little Louiei will have a chance at a com¬
petitive examination.”
Little Louie is a native of Manchester. She
made her first appearance in public as l< Little
Red Riding Hood ” at the Theatre Royal in
1875. Her first performance of u Second
Sight ’’ was given at the same theatre, on the
occasion of the benefit of the manager, Mr.
Thomas Chambers. At the Aquarium she has
appeared before the Royal Family.
It was remarked that no physician in Europe who had
reached forty years of age, ever, to the end of his life,
adopted Harvey’s doctrine of the circulation of blood;
and that his practice in London diminished extremely
from the reproach drawn upon him by that great and
signal discovery.—Hume, Y., 37.
June 4, 1880. T H E S P
ME. PERCY WYNDHAM ON INSTINCT.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF ‘‘ LETTERS
TO MISS MARTINEAU.”
I am much, pleased with the article by Mr.
Percy Wyndham. I have known the case of
a dog almost precisely similar,,and I entirely
agree with the writer that no explanation of
instinct worthy of the name has ever been
attempted, not excepting the theory of u in¬
herited experience ” which to me seems the
most foolish of all attempts, Wallace and
Spencer notwithstanding. It is the old
superstition of supposing man’s way to he
the way of all besides which have and inherit
life, and the reason of the difficulty is that we
cannot comprehend or account for powers we
do not ourselves possess. For this same
reason that instinct is denied, many people
refuse to believe in clairvoyance, just as the
blind might refuse to credit the power of
sight, coupled with a knowledge of things
existing or events occurring a mile away. If
you ask the explanation of the sense of
distant objects by the eye, they talk nonsense
about an inherited experience again. Every
kind of high ability or special genius is in¬
explicable to those who are without that
special gift. Surely now the account of the
calculating child in France, in the last
number of the Spiritualist, should he enough
to show these “ too clever by half ” philoso¬
phers that there are things in nature not
dreamt of in their philosophy and not to be
explained by experience, since the power is
what overleaps experience, and puts ex¬
perience and learning to shame with facts
which no so-called mechanical theories can
explain any more than the growth of a blade
of grass can be so explained, or how the new.
substance taken up immediately imbibes or
acquires the precise and special nature of the
particular plant or animal it unites with.
The wonderful thing is that Mr. Wallace, a
full-blown Spiritualist, should insist on the
solution of instincts by inherited experience,
which, however, no doubt dovetails better
with the equally unsupported hypothesis of
“ natural selection,” hut with an assumed
supernatural origin in the primary act of
“ the Creator.” Such is the boasted science
and reason of the day, and Huxley’s broad
wings brooding over chaos as to the origin of
living forms do not mend it.
Mr. Wyndham concludes with a sagacious
question as to the “ material organ,” or basis
of the instinct or instincts referred to. In
fact, as to instincts in general—higher types
RITUALIST. 267
j?j or lower as the case may be—it seems that
|>| there is a necessity, as supposed by Bacon and
l^j by Newton and others, of a spirit investment
id interfused, and so in immediate commu-
j/j nication with the spiritual medium of
j)j inter-communication, without and through-
| ! out, and which makes perceptions and the
|q inter-action and combinations in thought
|<| more conceivable. That the nerve channels
]>j of the senses are not so in reality, I have long
h| suggested, as in my letters to Harriet Martin-
[< eau (Letter 10). Brain sympathy, or thought
\)\ reading, suggests this, and also that the nerves
nj of sense have their origin in the back of the
! | brain, where resides the source of physical
m power, and do not pass to the organs of per-
|)[ ception in the frontal lobe, about which I said :
h] “It occurs to me, therefore, that it is very
|<| possible that the sense impressions do not pass
!?j along the nerves into the perceptive region of
|)| the brain in some unknown roundabout way,
|p or as electricity passes along wires, but rather
k| by a magnetic law. That the nerves of sense
j?j maintain a receptive medium, or condition of
| j that medium, as with the retina for instance,
| | the impression on which acts directly by the
j<[ spirit medium on the brain or organs relating
| > | to such impression. ’ ’ This hypothesis accounts
|p for all the facts which cannot he otherwise
|p explained either by organs or the anatomical
Id arrangements, and it renders perception and
|d the instincts in question not quite so obscurely
|p unintelligible.
i ? | Boulogne-sur-Mer.
! i  i—♦ 
A STRANGE STORY.
That universally known person, Mrs. Smith,
|?| tells the following strange story, which we
|p extract from The Religio - Philosophical Journal^
|s| (Chicago) of May 15th, last:—
“ Franklinton, N. C., May 6th.—The follow-
|p ing remarkable story was published in the
|)| local paper of this place this evening :
“ Mrs. Martha Smith, of Chatham, reports a
k remarkable case of suspended animation,
|p burial, and resurrection of a person—a mar-
jp ried lady—of the county, who possessed a gold
|p watch and finger-rings, which she often
Ip expressed a desire to have buried with her
|p whenever she was dead. Finally she was
Ip taken ill, and life seemed to gradually ebb
I; I away until her attending physician pronounced
|p it extinct. At her burial her previously
|p expressed desire was complied with, and the
’jp second night after her interment a white man
k| and negro went to the grave and exhumed
|p her for the purpose of obtaining her jewellery.
Ip As they took the lid off the coffin, and began
June 4, 1880.
268
THE SPIRITUALIST.
pulling off the ring from her finger, she raised
up. At this both men took fright and ran
away. Finally the negro went back. She
asked him what he wanted. He told her he
wanted her ring and the white man her watch.
She requested to see the white man, whom
the negro soon found and brought to her.
She requested him to go home with her. He
did so, and when she reached the door she
knocked. Her husband opened the door, but
fainted when he saw her, thinking it was his
dead wife’s ghost. Mrs. Smith says the lady
is now living, and bids fair to attain a good
old age, and that she visits and is visited by
her frequently.”
MRS. TAPPAN-RICHMOND’S RETURN TO
ENGLAND.
Spiritualists in this country will be glad to
hear that the celebrated public trance medium,
Mrs. 0. L. Y. Tappan-Bichmond,. will shortly
arrive in England with her husband, in the
Lord G-ough ” from Philadelphia. She will
probably resume her work in England at the
port of landing, Liverpool.
——* 
SIGNOR BELLAOHINI.
Signor Bellachini is one of those honest
conjurors who speak the truth about spiritual
phenomena, by telling the public that they
are genuine, and beyond the range of his art.
The Daily Telegraph of last Tuesday says of
him—“ Signor Bellachini, the renowned pres¬
tidigitator, who has recently been honoured
by the G-erman Emperor with the compli¬
mentary title of Royal Court-Artist, obtained
this unprecedented distinction by a somewhat
remarkable feat of dexterity. Having ob¬
served that the venerable Monarch, for some
years past, frequently attended his perform¬
ances and exhibited a lively interest in the
magical arts of which he is a past-master,
Bellachini conceived the bold project of turning
Imperial favour to account, and made formal
application to his Majesty for an audience.
His petition was granted, and the Emperor
received him, at an appointed hour, in the
study overlooking the Linden Avenue, his
favourite room, in which he transacts business
every morning and afternoon. After chatting
for a few minutes with the accomplished
conjuror upon subjects connected with his
profession, William I. asked, with a smile,
‘ Well, Bellachini, and what is it you want of
me ? ’ ‘ It is my most humble request, Sire, that
your Majesty would deign to appoint me your
Court Artist.’ * I will do so, Bellachini, but
!| upon one condition only, namely, that you
I forthwith perform some extraordinarily clever
| trick, worthy of the favour you solicit.’
i Without a moment’s hesitation, Bellachini
! took up a pen from the Emperor’s inkstand,
I handed it with a sheet of paper to his Majesty,
| and requested him to write the words, ‘ Bell-
j achini can do nothing at all.’ The Emperor
k| attempted to comply, but, stranger to say,
j)l neither pen nor ink could be persuaded to
Hj fulfil their functions. Now, Sire, said Bell-
!<! achini, will your Majesty condescend to write
kj the words f Bellachini is the Emperor’s Court-
j>! Artist ? ’ The second attempt was as successful
|)j as the first had been the contrary ; pen, ink,
js| and paper, delivered from the spell cast over
| ! them by the magician, proved perfectly docile
|)| to the Imperial hand, and Bellachini’s inge-
K] nious trick was rewarded on the spot by his
Kj nomination to the desired honorific office,
m made out in the Emperor’s own writing.”
Pi Superstitions of the Mi-wok Indians.—This nation x
kj or race is at once the most numerous and interesting,
jV; in many respects, of the ancient people still dwelling
|)| among the mountains of California. For houses the
ki Mi-wok construct very rude affairs of poles and brush-
j)| wood, which they cover with earth in the winter; in
I cl summer they move into mere brushwood shelters,
jv Higher up in the mountains they make a summer lodge
i)j of puncheons iu the shape of a sharp cone, with one
j(j side open, and bivouac-fire in front of it. Their food
K| is acorns chiefly; although they eat all creatures that
iff.' swim in the waters, all that fly through the air, and
ki all that creep, crawl, or walk upon earth, with a dozen
Kj or so exceptions. They are industrious to a degree,
kj but most of the labour is performed by the women.
Kj They make comfortable robes of hare skins. These are
|)j cut into narrow slits, dried in the sun, and then made
jvj into a wide warp by tying or sewing strings across at
Kj intervals of a few inches. Diseases are treated among
j)j them by scarification and prolonged suction with the
Kj mouth; physicians are called shamans, some of whom
i)j are women. In case of colds and rheumatism they
|<] apply California Balm of Gilead (Ficea grandis) exter-
|f| nally and internally. Stomachic affections are treated
j/j with a plaster of hot ashes and moist earth. The
j (j shaman’s prerogative is that he must be paid in advance,
| hi usually fresh carcases of deer or so many yards of shell
money; the patient’s prerogative is that if he dies his
jyj friends may kill the shaman. A majority of all who
j;j have any welldefined ideas whatever on the subject
j ? j believe in the annihilation of the soul after death. A
jyj dead man was referred to as ittch, representing the
Kj memory of a being that once was. While other tribes
jyj mitigated the final terror by an assured belief in a
jyj Happy Western Land, the Mi-woks go down with a
j) j grim and stolid sulleness to the death of a dog that will
jsj live no more. They have, however, a most degraded
j;j and superstitious belief in wood-spirits, who produce
jyj those disastrous conflagrations to which California is
jsj subject: in water-spirits, who inhabit the rivers, con-.
j)j sume the fish, and in other malicious beings who
jy assume the forms of owls and other birds, to render
j)j their lives a terroT by night and by day.—Phrenological
j)j Journal.
269
June 4, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MADAME PRUNIERE.
A few evenings ago, at a public seance at
6, Field Yiew, London Fields, Mr. C. R.
Williams introduced Madame Prunikre to the
twenty or more persons assembled, stating
that he had been informed that she was a
clairvoyant medium, who was also acquainted
with mesmeric healing.
At Madame Pruni&re’s request the room
was slightly darkened by the closing of the
curtains, after which she passed into a trance,
and proceeded to examine the sitters clair-
voyantly, one by one. She could speak little
English. In her mode of address there was
some dramatic power. She told one of the
sitters that he had something the matter with
his hand; she seized his hand, turned it
round, and pointed out a contraction. She
told another observer that she had a pain in
her side, and went into various other details
which the lady admitted to be true. She
then told one or two that th ^y had nothing
the matter with them, told another that he
had a headache, and a third that he had a
pain in his knee brought on by too much
walking, whilst another was informed that
he had a hollow tooth at the back of his
upper jaw. All she said was admitted to be
true, with the exception of one person who
kept silence when she told him that his inside
was on fire with drink, and that he always
wished for more.
 «> ; 
IMITATIONS OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
BY FRANK PODMORE, B.A. (oXON), F.C.S.
I have read your account of a u Mystery at
the Royal Aquarium” in this week’s Spirit¬
ualist with great interest, and do not venture
to hazard a guess Cl How it’s done.” In all
these performances it is extremely difficult to
draw the line at which legitimate legerdemain
stops, and on the further side of which an
abnormal force may come into play. That such
abnormal force is occasionally used by ordinary
conjurors for the production of their illusions
seems highly probable. I have had as satis¬
factory evidence of the clairvoyant powers of
Dr. Lynn in reading the names inscribed on
closed pellets, which had never passed through
his hands or within his vision, as I have ever
had from an avowedly clairvoyant medium.
But neither in art nor in action should
we invoke the aid of the supernatural—the
term is illogical, but convenient—when we
can untie the knot hy other means. I do not
doubt that Psycho and the rest of those clever
puppets are set in motion by some exceedingly
delicate pneumatic or thermo-electric con¬
trivance—the latter of which it would be
almost impossible to detect on the stage. And
whatever may be the case with the West¬
minster mystery, it is assuredly unnecessary
in the case of most of these pseudo-mediums
to postulate “ psychic force ” as the motive
power.
In September, 1877, I remember going to
see the performances of a certain Miss Nella
Davenport’s a exposes ’’ of Spiritualism, and all
the rest of it. And this is what I saw. I
went on the platform with three or four others,
most of them personally known to me, and we
tied a piece of black tape tightly round each of
the young lady’s wrists. We then fastened
her hands, thus braceleted, behind her back,
with another piece of tape, handcuff wise, leav¬
ing about six inches between the wrists. To
the centre of this connecting piece of tape, we
affixed another piece, five inches long, the
other end of which was fastened to an iron
ring, three inches in diameter, fitting into a
staple in the wall of the cabinet. The cabinet
itself was a roofless box about seven feet high,
raised ten inches from the floor, with a curtain
in front. The curtain would be drawn for a
period of some thirty seconds, during which we
members of the platform committee watched
all round the cabinet, and Miss Nella Daven¬
port drank a glass of water, played a fiddle,
drove a nail through a two-inch board, threw
a chair at the heads of the committee, together
with other things of that description.
I was fairly nonplussed, until at last, when
one of us had already been admitted blind¬
folded during the performance of the mystery,
and had retired baffled, and when another
was actually trussed and bandaged for the
same ceremony, I put in a petition to be in¬
itiated as well. My fellow committeeman was
placed on the medium’s right, I by special
favour, on her left. Now, I found that by
lifting my eyebrows, I could see with perfect
distinctness below my bandage, and I kept my
eyes fixed on the medium’s hands. The
curtain was drawn for less than half-a-minute,
and in that brief interval I saw her advance
both her hands with a perfectly easy and rapid
motion, all bound as they were, take a heavy
wooden bucket from her knees, and fasten it
firmly on 'her head. That she did this, I
know ; that she had the spinal column known
to anatomists, I believe; but how these two
facts are compatible I do not.understand. For
Miss Nella Davenport was by no means a small
woman, her height being decidedly above the
feminine average.
%
270
I had noticed, however, on her first entrance,
her extreme narrowness between the shoulders,
and still more extreme depth from breast to
back. She might have been the original
young lady of Norway, who expressed a more
than Promethean contempt for the Nemesis by
whose agency she was squeezed flat in a door¬
way. And I have no doubt that this abnormal
physical conformation held the secret of her
abnormal power.
It seems probable, that were closer attention
given to the matter, a good many performances
even more striking than the one narrated
above, could be explained by some physical
peculiarity of the performer. It would at any
rate, be safer to exhaust the known before
we proceed to the unknown—to interrogate
closely every possible cause, before having re¬
course to the impossible, however real, agencies.
 ♦ 
A PRIVATE SEANCE.
On Wednesday night last week, just before
a seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory's, 21,
Green Street, Grosvenor Square, London,
Lieut-Col. P. R. Innes and Mr. W. Annesley
Mayne, tied up and sealed a book-slate belong¬
ing to Mrs. Gregory, to see if any spirit writing
could be obtained inside it through the me-
diumship of Mr. Rita. There being no slate-
pencil in the house, Mr. Mayne put one of his
visiting cards and a “crumb” of lead pencil
between the leaves of the slate, and a question
was written in pencil on .the visiting card,
without the knowledge of the medium. A
string was tied tightly round the slate in two
directions at right angles to each other, and
sealed to the wood in two places with wax,
stamped with signet rings. The knot of the
string was sealed over with wax. The medium
was not in the room to witness these prepara¬
tions, and first saw the slate thus sealed, when
it was laid upon the table just before the dark
stance began.
Mr. Rita’s hands were firmly held all
through the seance by the sitters on each side
of him. A materialised form was seen by
everybody present seven or eight times float¬
ing over the table during the stance, as it
made itself visible by means of a flashing
phosphorescent-like light it held in its hands".
Only the head and shoulders of the form were
seen; it had living mobile features.
Before the close of the dark stance, one of
the spirits said that he had written upon the
card inside the book slate. A light was struck,
and the slate carefully examined; its seals and
string had not been tampered with. The
June 4, 1880.
string was then cut by Colonel Innes, when
the two wax seals were found to still hold the
leaves of the slate together very strongly, so
that it required some force to pull them
asunder; in doing so the seals were for the.
first time broken. It was then found that the
question pencilled on the visiting card,
“ When did Kang David die ?” had been read
by the spirit, who had written underneath it,
“Cannot tell.” On the other side of the card
the spirit had written “ Good night.”
MESMERISM.
Last Saturday night Mrs. Kemmis Betty
gave a reception at 21, Hyde Park Gate South,
Kensington Gore, London, at which Mr. Red¬
man performed some experiments with two
sensitives he brought with him, in illustration
of mesmeric phenomena. Among the obser¬
vers were Colonel and Mrs. Kemmis Betty,
the Master of Sinclair, the Hon Mrs. Sinclair,
Mrs. Halkett Le Couteur, Mrs. Mac George,
Lieut. Col. Hartley, Mrs. Lothian Scott, Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Webster, Miss Cooper,. Mr.
R. Hannah, Mrs. Yonge, Mr. Cutler, Mr. F.
W. Percival, Mrs. Grossmith, Mr. Byrie, Mr.
W. Annesley Mayne, and Mr. Harrison.
In the midst of some experiments which
were, generally speaking, not conclusive to
those who had had no previous experience in
mesmerism, the eyes of one of the sensitives
were blindfolded with a handkerchief, and
cotton-wool was inserted on either side of his
nose, so that direct vision might be intercepted;
he then began to read manuscript provided by
the mesmerist. Colonel Kemmis Betty un¬
expectedly interposed by asking whether the
blindfolded sensitive could read a letter he
drew from his pocket. The youth then de¬
liberately read the letter accurately from begin¬
ning to end. The following is a copy of the
document thus read:
The Central Pacific Coal and Coke Company, Limited.
Moorgate Street Chambers,
London, E.C., May 28th, 1880.
Dear Sir,—I beg to inform you that a Meeting of
the Board of Directors of this Company will be held at
these Offices on Tuesday next, the 8th June, at 4
o’clock p.m.
I am, Dear Sir, your obedient Servant,
Sydney Smethebs, Secretary.
Col. W. I. Kemmis Betty,
21, Hyde Park Gate, South, S.W.
Mr. Redman has recently been trying ex¬
periments by repeatedly mesmerising his two
sensitives at the house of the Misses Ponder,
Hay ter Yillas, Brixton Rise, and about ten
days ago Miss Ponder informed us that one of
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 4. 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST. 271
them had begun to exhibit clairvoyant powers,
and could occasionally play at cards while
blindfolded to tbeir satisfaction.
SPIRITUAL BIBLIOGRAPHY.
Sir,—Could “ Scrutator ” kindly inform me at what
bookseller’s in Paris, the works of “ Eliphas Levi ” are
procurable, and further what is the French title of |
Abbe Dubois’ work about the Brahmins, and the name
of the publishers ? H. M. (Bath.)
May 30tli, 1880. — •
The account printed in last week’s Spiritualist, of a seance with
Mr. Eglinton in Munich, about which there are conflicting j
accounts, was extracted from the Qlohe newspaper.
Mr. W. H. Lambelle, of South Shields, sustained
severe injuries by falling down a ship’s hold while he
was at work on Monday last.
Last Friday Miss Ella and Mr. Frank Dietz gave an
elocutionary entertainment at the Langham Hall. The i
best pieces of the evening were “ The Famine ” from
Hiawatha, by Miss Ella Dietz, and “Buck Fanshawe’s i
Funeral,” Marie Twain, by her brother.
Last Monday night Mrs. Olive, healing and trance i
medium, invited a few friends to a “house warming” j
party in her new residence, 121, Blenheim Crescent,
Netting Hill, London, and all present were much i
pleased with their reception. Statements Lave reached j
us that of late Mrs. Olive has effected several palpable
cures by mesmerism ; we will inquire into the cases.
A Coming Election.—At the coming election of a I1
new Council for the National Association of Spiritualists, j'
it will be compulsory to elect most of those nominated, i i
to make up the very large Council of thirty-six to conduct j1
the affairs of an organisation of about three hundred ],
members. The best thing the members can do is to i1
begin by voting, without exception, for every person
nominated who lives more than twenty miles from i i
London; such provincial members are mostly noted for !1
their public services, and take no active part in the !,
work of the Council. Afterwards, there being fewer j <
left seats to fill up, the members will get a little more !1
power of selecting those London residents who are to j <
do the actual work, although possibly to make up thirty- i <
six they will be obliged to vote for several persons who I ^
have never rendered any public services to the move- j <
ment. As a general rule, good organisations in London \ <
numbering between 500 and 1,500 members, have j>
from twelve to twenty members of Council. j <
The Ober-Ammergau Passion Play.—Mr. William H
Tebb writes:—“ Ober-Ammergau, May 31,1880,(Wood j)
Carver’s Cottage) The unfavourable weather yesterday j (
had no effect in diminishing the attendance at the j)
Tassionspiel, from 1,000 to 2,000 applicants being refused j)
admission for want of room. The amphitheatre is K
situated at the foot of mountains, the tops of which are i)
covered with recently fallen snow, visible to the k
audience, and when the actors are on the vast stage K
artistically grouped in some striking tableau, the >
toute ensemble is one that cannot easily be forgotten. K
Of the 1,300 inhabitants of the village, about 600 take n
partin the play, and the dramatic talent exhibited is i)
truly remarkable. My daughter, Christine, watched Kj
the development of the conspiracy gathering and the chief j) |
actor with great interest, but the last tragic scene of the k]
Crucifixion was too realistic for her nerves, and when j) j
the Roman soldier pierced the breast of Jesus, she fell j
back fainting. Being in the open air she soon came to K
and we then left the building. The play terminated an I) j
hour later, and is to be repeated to-day. ’ [([
SPIRIT MESSAGES.’*
BY E. ZOLLNER, PROFESSOR OF ASTRONOMICAL PHYSICS AT
LEIPZIG UNIVERSITY.
My friend [Dr. Friese, of Breslau] had put
himself in correspondence with another
gentleman, also a friend of mine, and who
was certainly superior to Dr. Friese in spirit¬
istic experiences. This gentleman was in
receipt of communications from spirits through
a writing-medium, and among others Goethe
manifested his presence. Dr. Friese wished,
as a communication for his hook, some words
from G-oethe of a fine and characteristic
nature—naturally not anything to be found
already in his works, which would have been
no proof of his identity. The other gentle¬
man responded willingly to this request, a
sitting was arranged, and the medium was
apprised of Dr. Friese’s wish. But instead
of the beautiful words expected, to the horror
of all present, Excellency Goethe began to
utter such abuse of Dr. Friese, reproaching
him with vices, &c., that they hesitated about
reporting this manifestation ingenuously to
Breslau. Nevertheless, in the interests of
candour, and for the furtherance of the truth,
this was done. Indignant at the jest, Dr.
Friese wrote warning them against the mis¬
use of the medium by “ mocking spirits,’’ and
solemnly protesting against the accusations
made. From these he concluded that the
spirit was by no means Goethe, but must he
some wicked monster who had been making
fun of the whole company. As was to be
expected, the contention and discord of the
spirits were very soon transferred to the men.
Geheimrath Goethe quietly persisted in his
charges; and thus was I one fine day sur¬
prised by a voluminous correspondence, which
I was to read and adjudicate upon. “
I sincerely regretted such results of spirit¬
istic occupations with two thoroughly rational
intelligent men, who were my friends. Never¬
theless, I could not refrain from a little joke,
which, whatever else might come qf it, would
at least, serve as a warning against blind
faith in statements thus obtained. I put
together the following sentences, and sent
them to the gentleman with whom the sup¬
posed Goethe was manifesting himself, with
the request that he would ask the latter
whether those words proceeded from a
high or from a low spirit, and, if he knew by
* Translated from the Introduction to the last volume of
Soientiflo Treatises (Transcendental Physics). Professor Zollner
gives this narrative as a warning against implicit reliance on
spirit communications.—Ed.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 4, 1880.
272
whom they had been written. The words in b
question were the following:—
“ That from merely false premises Newton K
could draw no true conclusions is evident. ... |
For an example of sophistical misrepresentation |)
of nature. . . . Instead of seeing and con- K
fessing that his system up to that time was k
thoroughly false, he says quite naively .... !?
without the world, which has echoed his \{
teaching for a hundred years, perceiving the K
jugglery. . . . It might really seem a sin todis- l<
turb the devout conviction of the Newtonian h
school, and, indeed, generally the heavenly
repose of the whole half instructed world in K
and to the credit of this school. . . . We must I?
mention some further marvellous consequences |;
which result from the Newtonian doctrine. Is
.... For this observation is very artfully in- K
troduced here . . . . to carry on further his |
hocus-pocus. . . . Again, a phenomenon much |>
to be commended to those who think to con- j>
tinue the Newtonian jugglery. . . j Every |s
mutual relation, of which Newton would so R
gladly persuade us, is to he looked on as an |)
empty delusion^ as an arbitrary invention. ... js
When Newton summoned us to such experi- ||
ments, which he seemed to have sought out R
designedly and consciously to deceive us. .. . |>
That Newton abused such a confused method Is
of exposition for his purpose, like dn advo- j|
cate. ...”
Yery soon I received the information that j|
these words could have proceeded only from Is
an utterly low spirit, one of the so-called K
“ mocking spirits,” for a high and noble spirit ||
would never express himself in such a manner Is
concerning Newton. It is true this declara- K
tion came not from spirit Goethe, but from R
the same “ guardian spirit,” however, on the |>.
strength of whose reliability and credibility Is
the identity with Goethe of the spirit mani- K
festing through the writing-medium had been j?
accepted. Now the above disparaging words |>
about Newton are to be found literally in Is
Goethe’s “ Theory of Colour,” (Farbenlehre) K
SS. 230, 79, 7, 113, 148, as anyone possess- U
ing Goethe’s works can see for himself.
The above account of my experience with Is
my two most intelligent friends has no
other object than to illustrate the utter un- |>
trustworthiness of similar manifestations, Is
even when one believes oneself most secure K
against deception. At any rate it is clear jl
that natural science cannot, and ought not to |)
take such revelations for the starting point of li
its investigations and endeavours, if it is not ||
willing to renounce the name of a science ; for j!
we know not how .far to ascribe reality to the
content of such revelations, every criterion
failing us herein. Natural science, however,
is concerned only with the knowledge of reali¬
ties, that is, of sense perceptions, which can
be not only historically, but also directly im¬
parted to us.
THE ENGLISH SUNDAY.*
BY THE BIGHT HON. THE EARL OF DUNRAVEN.
Ladies and gentlemen: I have on several
former occasions spoken from this platform on
the same subject that has brought us together
to-day, but, I have never done so with as
pleasurable feelings as those which I entertain
at this moment. In the first place I naturally
feel honoured with the compliment the Sunday
Society paid me in electing me president of the
association for this year, but principally, I am
pleased because I have such a good report to
make to you of the progress made by the
society since the last annual meeting. A good
deal has been done since then in the way of
opening art galleries and libraries. Thanks
to the kindness of Sir Coutts Lindsay, the
Grosvenor Gallery was opened for two Sundays
last summer, and two Sundays during the past
winter, and on these occasions it was visited
by about 6,000 people. The society itself
opened an exhibition in the City, and one in
Piccadilly, under most disadvantageous circum¬
stances, both as to the accommodation and as
to the thoroughly British weather that pre¬
vailed at the time, but yet in spite of these
disadvantages the exhibitions were well at¬
tended. The exhibition opened by the South
London Working Men’s College last summer
was a complete success. The exhibition at
the Albert Hall, with the organ recitals,
secured an attendance of about 3,000 people
each Sunday. The principles which we have
in view are spreading rapidly all over the
country, and are making themselves felt in
most of our great towns. Manchester es¬
pecially has come to the front since our last
meeting. The Boyal Manchester Institution
opened an exhibition for eleven Sundays last»
year, which was visited by 51,000 people,
and the various libraries to which the public
have access in the same city were visited by
about 125,000 people last year. Many other
places have been opened, and I could read you
a long list if necessary, but I have mentioned
enough, I think, to show that although our
efforts have not yet been crowned with com-
* A presidential address to the Sunday Society, delivered last
Saturday afternoon at the Freemason’s Tavern, London.
PROSPECT £JS OF A
PENNY MONTHLY JOURNAL
TO BE CALLED
COMMONWEALTH
First Issue JUNE 1st, 1880,
“ Commonwealth ” ■will advocate the following principles, viz.?
1st.—The Dethronement of Capital and the Sovereignty of Lah*nr.
2nd.—-The Abolition of Poverty by the Nationalization of the
Agriculture, Mining, Manufactures, and Commerce of th#
country.
l?rd.—The creation of a Natienal Currency, costless, and limitless
in quantity, whereby the people may be always fully employed
at considerably advanced wages,
4th.—*The Distribution (at home and abroad) of the Produete of
Agriculture, Mining, and Manufactures, without psobtt,
thereby greatly reducing the cost of living, notwithstanding
the increase of wages.
SKb.-i—These, changes which mean MCommunism” as opposed to
“ Individualism K will be based upon the Divine principles of
Nature, and will be advocated as the “ Religion of Natube,”
to be established by moral force alone.
6 th.—The gradual introduction of the principle of Commonwealth
will be assisted by a League to be formed through the agency
of the paper; which League will constantly keep the subject
before the public, and work it into the Municipal Councils,
and into Parliament—Public Opinion, and not brute force,
being wholly relied upon for the eventual success of the idea.
7th.—A special and separate feature of the paper, will be an ex¬
position of the Rights and Wrongs of Women; including
their education in the science of Motherhood; that ta, how to
educate the yet unborn with instincts purely virtuous.
“ CotBiBOH'realth ” will be published as follows, viz.,
London, E. W, ALLEN, 11, Ave Maria Lane;
Manchester, JOHN HEYWOOD & Co. 5
Suggestions sad Correapendeace invited by the Editor,
ROBT. HARPER,
1M, SOHO HIM,, BIHMINGiUM.
A- W. BAKEK, Professional and General Printer, Billposter,
“ Chrpuide* Office, Perk Road, Aetvn, Birmingham.
June 4, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
273
plete success, yet they are tending rapidly in ki nobody objects to because it is for the public
that direction, and that we haye reason to be m and general conyenience. Besides^ how can
satisfied. But although our protests are cheer- D| it be wrong for the attendants to be employed
ing, that is no reason why we should relax in K! in the British Museum, and not wrong for
our efforts. There is a strong and active |p them to be employed at Hampton Court and
party opposed to us on conscientious and re- k! Hew Gardens and many other places that are
ligious grounds, and after all the religious m open on the Sabbath ? The religious objection
objection is the only thing worth considering, [m of course is founded on the mistaken identity
We want people to have natural, proper, and Kj of the Christian Sunday with the Jewish Sab-
innocentrest and recreation on the Sunday; m bath, and upon a false estimate of the real
and to Say that a man who wishes to amuse ];| nature of both institutions. We know the
himself innocently on a Sunday in reality . >[ two reasons why the Jewish Sabbath was corn-
desires to be allowed to labour on that day is ic| manded to be kept holy—the one that on that
absurd. You might just as well say that a m day the Jews escaped from Egypt; and the
man who asks for bread in reality wants a in other that the Creator, haying formed the
stone. As to the Continental Sabbath, there K| world in six days, rested on the seventh day.
is nothing whatever in the feelings and |(| The first reason is seldom mentioned in con-
characteristics of the English people that is |?j troversy, because it is too absurd to argue
likely to lead them to adopt the habits and [5 that you or I shall not be allowed to visit
customs of foreign nations in that respect. jS| South Kensington Museum on the first day of
There is not the slightest danger that any K the week, because on the seventh day, about
British workman will make a bad use of any |?| two thousand years ago, the Jews are said to
liberty that is given him for recreation on a 1; have succeeded in escaping from Egypt, carry-
Sunday, and will abuse that liberty by desiring Kj ing a good deal of plunder with them. The
to pursue his ordinary avocations and trades jq other reason is the one usually employed, and
on that day ; and as to emptying the churches j? the value of that depends in a great measure
that is ridiculous. Is it not natural to suppose ]> on whether you believe that the Creation was
that people who spend their holidays rationally Is! accomplished, in six literal days. I do not
and intelligently in the enjoyment of works of Kj know how many persons really believe in that
art, and in studying as much as they can of j?| theory, but I daresay a great many honestly
Nature in museums, would be more likely to j)j do so ; but if they do—if they so hold to the
find themselves in a frame of mind that would Kj commands given by Moses and to his in-
induce them to attend churches and places of Ki stitutions—why do they not carry them out
worship rather than those who spend their !?j in their entirety? Why force upon us the
Sundays wandering aimlessly about our dirty j)j law of Moses on a single point and not on
streets, lounging outside public-house doors jsj other points? Why do they not agitate to
longing for the hour of opening, and then Kj have his sanitary arrangements carried out—
making the best use of their time to obtain in j?j very excellent sanitary arrangements in their
the excitement of drink that change of thought j)j way, but scarcely suited to the requirements
and forgetfulness of their troubles and worldly jsj of modern civilisation. Why do they not insist
cares which we would try to procure for them jq upon the law of .Moses being carried out in
by perfectly innocent and legitimate means. j?j judicial matters, and revert to the old law of
To say that the opening of such buildings as Kj an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, blood for
the British Museum would lead the working jsj blood, and life for life ? Why do they not
classes or any class to clamour for the opening jq insist on the death penalty being carried out
of music halls and places of similar character jq against Sabbath-breakers. Endeavouring to
is an insult to the intelligence of those classes. j)j carry out the Mosaic laws and institutions in
No one contends there is anything intrinsically jsj the present day would lead us into all kinds
wrong in visiting museums, but the wrong jq of absurdities and impossible positions. As a
lies either in the fact that the opening of them Kj matter of fact we all know and agree that as
necessitates a certain amount of labour on the j>| times change and the circumstances of life vary
part of the officials connected with them or that Kj so we must modify our institutions, religious
it is wicked to visit them on the first day of jq as well as secular. We retain portions of
the week, while that is not the case on any jq ancient ordinances, such as the decalogue, be-
other day. Now, as to the extra work, we all j)| cause they are still suited to the requirements
know that it is infinitesimally small. There |sj of our civilisation. But then we are told that
is a great deal of work done on Sundays that j<| the Christian Sunday superseded the Jewish
274
THE SPIRITUALIST. Jmffi 4. 1880.
Sabbath. That is exactly our contention. I
do not like to touch upon such subjects at a
public meeting, but I must say it is difficult
for me to understand how any man can reflect
upon the life and teachings of the founder of
Christianity without seeing that His views
were very different from those of the modern
Sabbatarians. As to the teaching of the early
Christian Church, there is no doubt whatever
about that. Any amount of passages from the
early fathers might be quoted in support of
the principles that we are arguing. Our
present Sabbatarianism was the work of the
Puritans. Puritanism was its origin. Puritan¬
ism did much good. It was a very strong re¬
action against an undue relaxation of public
morals, and it acted as a wholesome corrective.
Unfortunately, it carried its principles to ex¬
cess. The pendulum swung too far, and in
protesting against too much levity, the effect
was to strip life of all enjoyment, and to take
from the people all their innocent pleasures
and pastimes. It cast a cold, dull shadow
over the existence of the English people,
which has saddened the whole life of the
nation, and has done perhaps more than any¬
thing else to foster the greatest vice of modern
times among us—intemperance. The worst
of Puritanism was its persecuting, proselytis¬
ing spirit. Hot content with acting as they
thought right themselves, they wished to
compel everybody else to conform to their
ideas. We don’t want to compel any one to
observe Sunday according to our lights. We
only want the liberty we accord to others.
The rich and the well-to-do’can get out of the
town and enjoy the fresh air and nature.
They have their books, their libraries, their
clubs, society, and many ways of diverting
themselves on Sundays. But the poor man
has nowhere to go. He must get his thoughts
taken off from his troubles and his business
somehow. He has but one resource, and no
wonder that he avails himself of it—that af¬
forded by the public-house. As the law of
Moses was, no doubt, very excellent in its
way, so, no doubt, the ordinances of the
Puritans did good in their time; but, as I
have said, they went too far. At any rate,
they are out of date now, and Sabbatarianism
has become more a habit than anything else.
In fighting against it no one can say that we
are offending against the Old Testament, or
the Pounder of Christianity, or the early fathers
of the Church, or the great Eeformers. Many
of our opponents, too clear sighted, too liberal,
too honest, to attempt to force upon us the ob-
!s| servance of the Jewish Sabbath, fall back upon
| the theory that a day of rest is much needed,
| and that if you touch the method of Sunday
! observance, Sunday will be abolished. We
I agree with them in the first part of their as-
| sertion, and deny the second ; that is what we
I want. When the brain or body is wearied
: with one kind of work, it can rest only by
| devoting itself moderately to some occupation
1 that interests and amuses, but still is an
If occupation. It is proved by the fact that
| wherever we are doomed to the torture of com-
! plete idleness they immediately crave for
<| narcotics or stimulants. The aspect of nature
?| is always strengthening. No man is impervious
)j to the charm. I do not care how dismal and
si unpoetic are the circumstances of the life;
cl whether it be spent in the factories, under-
>| ground in noisome courts and alleys, among
|| foul smells and sights and sounds, surrounded
| by everything that is sordid, hideous and de-
I pressing, the instinct of the love of nature
I remains, and if it can be gratified nothing is
| so good for man. But we are very far from
I nature in our great towns. Many of our
| fellow creatures are as far as if they lived a
ff thousand miles from a green field, seeing that
Sj they have neither time nor money nor op-
cj portunity to indulge in country excursions.
Our very industries have changed, desecrated,
>| destroyed the force of nature, obliterated all
| her fairest features, and there is no country to
cj be found in the country. All is black and
| ugly. The rich are in this respect better off.
>! I am not one of those who think that happiness
S| is so unequally divided. The well-to-do have
q many anxieties, struggles, trials, that the poor
?! are free from, but in this one thing the rich
)| have the advantage. We legislate to secure
sj as large a measure of bodily and creature com-
?! forts as possible. But how little do we think
?! of nourishment and refreshment for the mind.
SI But some people laugh at us and say, u What
| good do you suppose opening museums and
?! places of that kind will do? How absurd of
? you to suppose that will make any difference
?| in the happiness or in the habits, manners,
S and customs of the people. The drunkards
?! will be drunkards still. The frequenters of
?! public-houses will always prefer them to the art
S'! galleries.” “Well,” we reply, “wait and
I see, give us a chance.” It may come slowly,
?! it may be very small at first, but by degrees
?! the good effects will spread abroad, will filter
S] through all classes, and leaven the whole of
?! society; and, though the effect may be im-
?j perceptible on the country at first, it will be
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
275
June 4, 1880,
there, and it will in time bear fruit, and tend U|
to raise the entire tone of the nation, and will | }|
make us a happier, a more sober, a more in- jS
telligent, and a more contented people. We |<|
must succeed. It is only a question of time |<!
and work. \)\
UNCANNY EXPEEIENCES.
BY W. yr. FAWCUS.
Some six years ago a family which we will j)|
call Brown, remoyed from the mouth of the |s|
Tyne to a Tillage about twelve miles higher k|
up, where its stream narrows and is no longer j?j
periodically swollen by the influx of the tide, hj
The children were quite young, and from k|
motives of economy, health and preference, j?j
Mr. Brown, who was engaged in a bank in |;|
Newcastle, determined to live in the country, jsj
The first evening they were in the house, Kj
Mrs. Brown was dressing her hair for dinner, j?j
when she heard something like a rabbit run- j;j
ning about under the bed and dressing-table, nj
and asked her husband when she came down to K|
dinner whether there were any such thing in m.
the house, to which he replied “No, you must |)j
be mistaken.”
At this time they were unaware that the Rj
house had at one time been a wayside inn, and \H
had the reputation of being haunted ; but they |;j
soon had further experiences of it. In the is
first place the servant complained of noises in Kj
the house, and especially as of some one j?j
splitting great logs of wood in the cellar; she l;j
also threatened that she would not stay. The Kj
mistress not wishing fco be left without a jo
servant, discouraged all such stories, although m
from her own experience she knew that they Kj
were only too true, for one of her little girls K|
said to her one morning, “ Ma, can chairs In
walk?” “No, my dear, what has put that >|
into your head ? ” “Well, Mamma, when I Kj
was lying in bed, one of the chairs moved |<
across the room.” “ Nonsense, my dear.” “But K
I saw it.” j>
Another night Mr. and Mrs. Brown had K
gone to bed. It was winter and they had a K
fire in their room. Mrs. Brown was lying I?
awake, and by the blazing light of a good fire j)
she saw an old woman sitting at it, and about js
to stir the coals ; she woke her husband, who k
sat up in bed, and she asked him if he saw the j)
old woman sitting by the fire, to which he j>
replied that he did. The figure got up and js
came to the bed, stretching its arms over them ; jc
then it disappeared. j?
In another room was a locked closet, of |>
which they had not the key, and strangers |s
who slept in this room complained that the
door of the closet opened in an uncomfortable
way during the night. The servant at last
refused to stay any longer, and the family
were obliged to leave the house on account of
its peculiarities. It is some time since the
family left the neighbourhood now, and I was
asking Mr. Brown’s brother about the circum¬
stances the other day, but he had never heard
of them. His brother had never told him a
word about the hauntings ; but he remembered
the servant leaving, and that Mrs. Brown
would not remain in the house, but he never
knew why.
He also remembered visiting them, when
the following circumstances happened, which
he had never previously mentioned from that
day to this.
It was in summer and quite light. He had
just got into, bed when he received a sound
box on the ear. He thought it was one of his
brother “Joe’s larks,” and jumped out of bed
to catch him; but seeing no one he looked
under the bed and everywhere, and observed
that the door was shut. “ Ah,” he thought
“ he has been too sharp for me,” and went to
bed again. The next morning, at breakfast,
his brother asked him how he had slept, but
observing a smile on his brother’s face, he
thought he referred to the trick he supposed
had been played upon him, and thought as he
expressed it that he would never “ let on,” so
he replied “ all right.” He confessed that
it had often puzzled him how his brother could
have been so sharp, but never till I told him
the ghost story had it ever crossed his mind
that the slap on the head might have been
anything but a trick that his brother had
played upon him.
One other curious circumstance he re¬
membered about the house was, that he had a
quiet old donkey in the village to ride on,
being weak from illness. The animal had a
reputation for docility, and had never been
known to offer any resistance; but it refused
to approach the house, and when he tried to
force it, the brute threw him over its head.
His brother, who was a noted athlete, said:
“ Come, and I will soon make him,” but he
soon followed suit, the donkey was strong in
his objection, and the attempt had to be given
up as hopeless.
I content myself with narrating the facts
as I heard them, without attempting to give
any explanation, for the very good reason
that I have none to give.
Lorraine Terrace, Newcastle.
276 THE SPIRITUALIST. June 4. 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Bg the late Wh.' Gbbgory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor qf Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Jssfc published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations; of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV :—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes —
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance inBegard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V t—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI .’—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
■CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
.all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasia often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
act Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX t—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenhach—:His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with theLnfluence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced-to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Gubjeet—Effects of Odyle—Somuambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylio Emanations—-Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
fnduce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XIInterest felt in Mesmerism by Menof Science—Due Limits
of Scientific'Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions Of Success in Experiments—
.Cause of ,Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to beExpected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi-
■ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration-—Major Buckley’s Method—Oases—The Marie Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazedat—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep1 Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—PhrenorMesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases : Sir J. Pra/nklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Oases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Oases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters uf Two Clergymen, with Cases—
uirvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV !—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of MeSinerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London,
INFOKMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
5 j In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
I) i s sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
:/ j lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
in ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
KI The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
j (j Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
Kj investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
iS; professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
i) i true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
;;j were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
I) i presence of mediums without being touched,
jn Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
| (; Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
!\ I thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
Kj house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
i) i Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner,and a great number of intelligent
jSj professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
j/1! Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
j) l forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
!) \ stranger to the family present.
in The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
Ki science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
i (i untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
Ki private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
iSi by any "member of the family. At the present time there are
i; i only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
j)i phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
i/ j tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
j(i be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
Ki the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
i (| protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
i;; the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
|)| which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
j)| duped who trust in worthless authorities.
j); One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
;7j ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
i c i new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
ici tions, obtains the.phenomena:—
K: 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
| (i tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
IS I 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
nj the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
i) ; to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
j) I wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
I c | top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
Kj little importance. Any table will do.
j s | 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
j S i but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
I); 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
i) j general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
j) ;. should be of a frivolous nature.
\)\ 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
I?I feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
| (I indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
Kl 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
Ki to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
Ki the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
Spi three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean
I/1 “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
l)l If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
jri letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
j CI to the letter you want, and spell ns out a message ? ” Should
Ki three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
i s I from this time an intelligent system of communication is
. IS i established.
I) | 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediamship, such as
i;)| trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class ot
l)i messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
i?i usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
icj objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
| (| the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
K j to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
K| or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
if) j undeniable proof.
|;j 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
PI no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
Pi A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
i ? I mesmeric influences.
1(1 Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
Ki not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
01 week: angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
JtrNE 4, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
Cloth, small 8vo, price 8s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. 'White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners', he answers Yes ; hut
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
prxcisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
f^ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
in Spiritualism, by Christian Reimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London. -
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Hill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
Researches in the pheno¬
mena OP SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd; or six copies post free for 6d.
EAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion of spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to '6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each • or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
jl_ oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
ISs per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C
Price 3s, 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Postfree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“Ol Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappam-
Bichmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation, By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
41 M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
‘‘M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfalien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H..Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XT,ITT.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette MakdougaU
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33...
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the-Prize Essay on ‘‘ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society foi
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS (FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VH.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glen are—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII,
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
13 EVUE SPIBITE, Journal d’etudes
JLt psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-(jffice orders payable i
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular-Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
' Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. 'I rade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium .present,
may be obtained at The Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
disseniination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes Will at Once irrevoc ably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to '‘drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit ircles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con-'
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE S P I E l T U A L I S T,
June 4, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE ,
CHRISTMAS PXJDDINO,
USE '
ENO S FRUITSALT
fiTery TraYelling Trunk and Household in the "World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound* Ripe Fruit, as a Health-
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,"
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure.. Blood,
Fevers, Pimples’on the Face. Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness,Mental depression,-Waut of .Appetite, Sourness,1
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors'in Eating and
Drinking.
TING’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
U Rev. Dr. Ilujtsr, Vicar of CollerlyI have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements, The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world,”
Q TIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
kJ AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. END’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE END’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for END’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
END’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
xA. ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple,. but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
RAGGED, WEARY AND WORN
JL OUT!! 1 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S "FRUIT SALT is the hest known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de t*" S’aix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. Ke is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
m the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “Aftersuf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ QUCCESS IN LIFE.”—Anewin-
kJ vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an origmal channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule i»
marked “ENO’S EEUIT SALT.” Without,you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and is. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo,-richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS.
AN D " PR 0 S E IMAGININGS.
. 1 RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON/ ■
An piegant and Amusing Gift.Bqok;.of jPoeticali and
. Prose Writings, Graye and Gay. ;j
Strongly.rebommended by . reviews ;in ? The',Mbrn\ng
.Post^OrdpMa Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
'other standard journals,'
The gilt; device, on the cover designed by . Florence
'■ Claxton and the Author. ■'
Contents.
Part, 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2; The;Song;ol
.the Newspaper Editor.—3. The’Song .of/thej'Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—-5. The Lay of 'the Fat Man"
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. Hdw Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al' SHacay
bac a gentleman who visited Loriddn'on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben- Buckram,1 Chief of the College of Howling Der-
tvishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Briramed;Hat:—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the MarkeTGardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12. Our' Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the'Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. ‘‘Poor
Old-Joe!?’—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in areview nearly a column long, says;—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that ■ his- miise restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the. deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says oi The Wobblejaw Ballads—“No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as Tie
Bon Q-aultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
■ “ All are of-marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic:
“ Those who can appreciate . genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account oi
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIRKBECK-BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
OW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
k FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession undind'Rent to pay. Apply at
the" Office i of the BIRKBECR BUILDING SOCIET Y.
OW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOll FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate' possession, either ' for Building or
Gardening i purposes! Apply, at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD-LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet,'with" full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southamptori-buildihgs, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
- Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, anil',interest allowed on the'mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per ceht.“repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes, for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
UNACY LAW REFORM
ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe, Hon. Sec. ,
rpHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
A OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
exceUent little hook for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and.
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceiyed ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions wq shall not now enter. We
will only say that Ms descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test wMch Ms
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (wMch is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
Price 6d.; post free 7£d.; cloth.
Peize Essays.
rpHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
A SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals op the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in PMladelphia, Penns.
U.S. A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
CONTENTS.
“ Little Louie ”    265
Mr. Percy Wyndham on Instinct. By Henry G.
Atkinson, F.G.S      267
A Strange Story        267
Mrs. Tappan.Richmond’s Return to England  268
Signor Bellachini     268
Madame Pruniere  269
Imitations of Spiritual Phenomena. By Frank
Podmore, B.A., Oxon, F.C.S......  269
A Private Seance       270
Mesmerism       270
Spirit Messages. By F. Zollner, Professor of
Astronomical Physics at Leipzic University... 271
Paragraphs:—Superstitions of the Mi-wok Indians 268
A Coming Election.;   271
The Ober-Ammergau Passion Play 271
Correspondence:—Spiritual Bibliography  271
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
