Eegisiieid as a Newspaper.
SK© joifS{K®i< ©^TCSoi<o^idai<
mm ^^pSS toiflj S^hitwalbm m Sxmi §n^m»
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Rugsell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : f‘ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 10x0, Seventh-street. 1
No. 258. (VOL. XL—No. 5.) LONDON: FRIDAY, AUGUST 3, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
The Passage of Matter through Matter  49
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. By Emily Kislingbury
and 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sei,...; ... ... ...  49
Review:—England and Islam ; or, The Counsel of Caia-
phas. By Edward Maitland... .;. ... ... ... ... ... 50
Psychological Phenomena among the Highlanders of Scot¬
land      ... ... . ...       52
Another Haunted House 'H'  ...  ..53
Catholic Eschatology        ... 53
The Reception to the Baron and Baroness von Vay  54
Mr. Robert Dale Owen’s Last/Seance...    54
Spiritualism in Italy. By the Rev. Thomas Colley, Tempo¬
rary Chaplain at Naples    ... 54
The Religion of the Literari. By J. T. Markley 55
Poetry:—The Last Chord—Hymn     56
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Jersey—Dr. Slade in
Brussels—Mesmerism and Phrenology—Is Crime Go¬
verned by Law ?—The Phenomena of Clairvoyance—Ma¬
terialisations of Spirit Heads, No. 6—The Psychological
Experiences of the Rev. John Clowes 56
A Flying Saint. By Emily Kislinghury 60
Paragraphs:—Mrs. Fletcher’s Mediumship, 51; Birth, 54 ;
Mourning Customs, 54; Snake-Charming, 60; The Re¬
ception of New Truths      60
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
mHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, ana is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ises in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden) ; the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;NHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay;,the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President or the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor,And Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0,. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope TemplemanSpeer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr.1 J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. WilUam Oxley ; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246,* Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Ohiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Ropms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Qf&ae.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 91S, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
CA.RDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for August, 1877.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-sfreet, will be closed on
Monday, August 20th, and will reopen on Monday, September
3rd.
Friday, 3rd.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Stance Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
„ li)th.—Reception to the Baron and Baroness von
Vay, at 38, Great Russell-street. Admission
to members and friends. Is. Chair at 8 p.m.
Tuesday, 14fft—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Friday Vlth.—House and Offices Committee at 5.30 p.m.
COMMITTEES OF THE B.N.A.S.
Experimental Research Committee:—Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E. (Chairman), Mr, C. F. Varley, F.R.S., Mr. W. H.
Coffin, Dr. O. Carter Blake, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. C. C.
Massey, Rev. W. Stamton Moses, Rev. W. Newbould, Mr. E.
Dawson Rogers, Mr. Geo. King, Mr. H. Withall, Mr. J. W.
Gray, Mr. D. H. Wilson, Mr. T. H. Edmands,Mr. C. Blackburn,
Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. F. Barrett.
Finance Committee:—Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. Martin
R. Smith, Mr. Alex. Calder, Mr. A. Joy.
House and Offices Committee: — Mr. E. Dawson Rogers
(Chairman), Mr.' Algernon Joy Mrs. Maltby, Mr. A. Calder,
Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. E. T. Bennett.
Soiree Committee: —Wlss. H. Withall (Lady President),
Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
A. Joy, Mr. E. T. Bennett.
Library Committee:—Rev. W. Newbould, Dr. Carter Blake,
Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. A Joy, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers.
Seance Committee:—Mr. W. Newton (Chairman), Mr. D.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. H. Withal), Mr. T. H.
Edmands, Mr. A. Joy, Dr. Carter Blake, M.E. Dawson Rogers,
Rev. W. Stainton Moses, Mrs. Maltby.
Correspondence Committee:—^Tc. A. Calder, Mr. E. Dawson
Rogers, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. A. Joy.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LoughborouGh-boad-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, HON. SE0.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Caxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Its work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., &c., post free 13 stamps.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees.
22, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Price from 30s. to £9 10s.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours, from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an-article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear’s, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
RALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston Lane, Dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The tef Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures,, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have) the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. AH the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on appheation to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .-—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance'
on Thursdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
WILLIAM FLETCHER, THE
• AMERICAN SPEAKER, WILL GIVE HIS LEC¬
TURE, “A Half Hour from Alexandria to Jerusalem,” at
Langham Hall, August 6th, in connection with Mrs. Weldon’s
regular Concert.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT-,
218, HIGHHOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EVENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
La.ngham Hall, Great Portiand-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started,
eight years agp, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may he obtained, and subscriptions,
donations, &e., received by Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House
Tayistock-square, London, W.C,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 3, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander C alder, Esfl., I, Hereford-square, Wes t Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenof-square, W.
Ht'nywood, Mrs.,52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Eogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94 Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., H.M.S. “Malabar, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Obersteln-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, C, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Xvimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M. A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheaih, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St, John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
J. E. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-vllla, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimilie, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmillan Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Eeipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. Hi Gledstanes,Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Monfgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. do Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St, Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue .flu Midi,
Brussels. ’
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee. Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London,'N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste', Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, JDorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Hoaore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City,•-Utah, U.S.A.
Dr.Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hillock, 54, Denbigh-stpeet, Belgraye-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallo'ck, '54, Denbigh-sxreet, Belgrav'e-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modllng, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El visconde do Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
MR. C. E. ‘WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home dally from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
14, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, W.C.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. j. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. AH Letters
to he addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 6 o’clock. 178, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can he attended by recommendation from a member., Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
p RANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
VJT will be published as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolner, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the hook.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistook-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley. Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Triibner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Gaiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY AND Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors' manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientiflo references. Address O.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, .St. George’s-
road.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sillwood-road
Brighton.
jyjESMERISM,
 Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
  and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
TTn rl
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &e. Address, “ Spiritualist," 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
PIANOFORTE
Chew. Fine and
for Sale (transposing), by
brilliant tone; stand any amount of
wear. Price £30; worth double. J. Marks, 286, Portobello-
road, Nottmg-hill.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Thro .
bald. Part 1,price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened," being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300/oj’ Is., post free, or 500ybr Is. Qd.,post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such- a number of
mediums will spring up in private, families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
P
ADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with diepatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7,30.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie,
% xi ml ||| ntth- $f ^piiji(uitH$m>
Vo^ujvie .EJeeyej^. Number Five.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST Srd, 1877.
THE PASSAGE OF MATTER THROUGH MATTER.
Although it has long been known'to Spiritualists that
solid matter sometimes passes through solid matter at
semceS) the evidence supposed to prove it has frequently
been faulty, though not so in all cases. For instance, when
objects which were most certainly not in the room when the
stance began, have been found in it during the progress of
the manifestations, they might have been brought down the
chimney if they were not too large to pass. Again, spirits
possess the power sometimes of making objects invisible, so
that articles might have been brought into the room when
the door was open, and the properties have afterwards
been restored to them which made them present those
aspects of matter which enable objects to be recognised by
means of our senses.
Count de Bullet’s seances in Paris, as recorded by the
Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan in these pages, very clearly establish
the fact of dematerialisation, and of matter passing ab¬
normally out of an envelope. A head is dipped into melted
paraffin several times, and a minute or two later the hot
paraffin mould is in the hands of the observers, the head
having been dematerialised, and not withdrawn in the ordi¬
nary way, because the narrow neck of the mould is left
perfect and unbroken. This has hitherto been done in the
dark, and we are watching for evidence which shall bring it
home to the personal knowledge of the observers that the
heads in those moulds were living ones. This, however, has
nothing to do with the question now before us. The bottle¬
shaped luminous object shown by another spirit has been
moulded more than once, and the empty mould left behind
with the narrow neck unbroken and uninj ured. These are
most portentous facts, never so well established as by the
experiments in Paris. Often in London trustworthy and
critical observers have held the hand of a medium, and a
welded iron ring, with no opening in it, has, in the dark,
been threaded on their arms. But the evidence as to de¬
materialisation obtained by the Count de Bullet and Mr.
O’Sullivan is stronger, because the hot mould is left in their
hands, and can be taken away to permit others to explain if
they can, after due examination, how the head was removed
from its interior.
The older manifestation of the passage of an iron ring
through an arm, or vice versa, once raised the question
whether ft was necessary that one of the two substances
should be living, and so rings of different woods, each
turned in one solid piece, have been taken by several in¬
quirers to seances, in the hope of getting them threaded
together, and then left in the hands of the observers as
proof which could be shown to anybody of the action of
some power greater than that of man. But the rings have
never been threaded. Count de Bullet’s experiments tend,
however, to show that if the threading can be done by de¬
materialisation, it is not necessary that one of the inter¬
linked substances should be living. The conditions, how¬
ever, are not exactly the same in his paraffin mould experi¬
ments as in the attempted interlinking of the rings, for the
rings have no orifice analogous to the neck of the mould.
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, one of the Middlesex magis¬
trates, gave strong evidence in the last number of The
Spiritualist of the production of writing between two of his
own slates sealed together. This is another good example
of the exercise of spirit power within an enclosed space.
Could the spirits remove a large piece of pencil from between
the sealed slates, and could they move an object in a vacuum
tube?
Galileo’s full name was Galileo Galilei, and Public Opinion asks
why those who call him by his Christian name, do not call Bacon
‘‘ Frank,” and Newton “ Ikey.”
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
BY EMILY lUSLINGBURY AND C. CABTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI.
From accounts lately published in the Revue Spirite it
I would appear that physical mediumship is being developed
| in France to a greater extent than formerly. In the case of
j a young girl, whose name is given simply as “ Amelia,” a
| member of a private family in Paris, strong physical mani-
| festations, such as movement of objects, formation of hands,
j and direct writing take place in the dark and in the light,
I and sometimes when the medium is not in the room. One
evening in summer, when there was some difficulty in
darkening the room, the sitters agreed to bandage their eyes,
and on doing so, and while the hands of the medium were
secured, the objects on the table were moved with the rapidity
usual in the dark. The bonnets of some of the ladies were
exchanged, and spectacles were taken from a gentleman and
placed on the nose of the medium. The narrator remarks
that solar light is apparently less obstructive to the operations
of spirits than the human glance.
Gne rather novel experiment—which, however, has some¬
times been tried in Newcastle—is related as follows :—The
| medium places her hands on a small round table in front of
j the window curtains, which are of woollen material, and
| are drawn together. Otherwise the room is quite light. In
j about three minutes the curtains are opened and closed
| several times in succession by an invisible operator. We
! look forward to further accounts of the development of
] u Amelia.” Good daylight mediums are scarce.
An interesting case of direct healing is reported from the
Gironde. M. Dauzac had both his legs broken by a heavily
laden cart passing over them. The doctors in consultation
declared amputation necessary, so shattered were the limbs.
M. Dauzac’s son, who is a medium, retired from the sick
room, and prayed fervently that advice might be given him
from the spirit world, and in particular that a good spirit
known to him as Dr. Demeure might be sent to help his
father. The following words were then written through his
| hand:—u Do not consent to the amputation, your father will
! recover; he will be able to walk and attend to his affairs
again. I will mesmerise him spiritually, and give him
j strength to bear the operation, which I will perform myself;
after much suffering he will be delivered from this affliction
I sent by God.”
The writer, M. Dauzac himself, here relates that he had
been an irreligious man until the Spirit's Book and the
] Medium's Book by Allan Kardec had fallen into his hands.
The doctors came, but pronounced against amputation,
| as useless to save the patient’s life. He was in a high state
of fever, and already doomed. They replaced the bandages
| and left the house. Immediately Demeure, aided by a band
I of spirits, began his operations. M. Dauzac says :—
I was placed in a position in which. I could not have held myself
| without iron supports ; I then felt a hand rubbing me so hard that I
| cried out; everything seemed to be unwound and displaced ; I believed
that I was suffering from cramp, for my son had invoked the beneficent
! spirit unknown to me. In about ten minutes, when I was quite ex
hausted with pain and fatigue, I was allowed to rest a little; and what
| ease I felt! Ten minutes later I exclaimed, “ There it is again! It is
I in the other leg ! Everything is being undone,” The watchers declared
1 nothing had happened ; the operation was repeated five times on each
| leg, at intervals of ten minutes; after that I slept the whole night.
The following morning the son consulted his spirit-friends,
| and Dr. Demeure declared that bones, tendons, veins, and
| fibres had all been duly laid in proper order, and that the
| cure would be effected, The legs would be slightly shorter
I than before, but the patient would not be lame, though he
I would sometimes suffer pain. A dangerous crisis followed’,7
| consequent on the extraction by the doctors of a portidffjdf'
P detached bone; nevertheless, young M. Dauzac, encouraged-
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 3, 1877.
by the assurance of his spirit guides, would not give up |
hopes of his father’s recovery. One evening he was told—
<( To-morrow he will begin to mend, and will steadily im¬
prove until restored to health.” The next morning the i
doctor inquired of a neighbour, before entering the house,
whether M. Dauzac were dead. <e No, he is better,” was
the reply. “ I am astonished,” said the doctor, “ this j
change must be the precursor of death.” A fortnight later
he told his patient, “ You may now get up ; but be careful,
for only one in a thousand could have lived through this : j
whether this cure be of God or the devil I do not know, but
there is something in it which I cannot understand.” M. j
Dauzac replied, “ You only see in disease a disorganisation
of matter; when you have learned the part played by the |
soul and the perisprit in the physiology of man, and the
relations between spirit and matter, this fact will be no
longer a mystery to you, and you will make many more
remarkable cures.” The doctor had nothing to reply, except
that M. Dauzac would certainly never walk again. He went
on crutches for a fortnight, and was then able to dispense
with them altogether.
The record from which the above is somewhat condensed 1
is signed by M. Dauzac, his son, and thirteen other persons, j<
and is dated Naujean, par Brame, Gironde, January 18th, j
1877, and is published in the June number of the Revue j
Spirite. j
The July number of the Revue opens with a paper from j
the pen of J. Camille Chaigneau on the relations between j
social progress and the doctrine of Reincarnation. An
account of the meetings of Spiritualists at Tabedelle and
Tarrasa, taken from the Barcelona journal, shows that be¬
lievers are numerous in Spain; at the one place eighty, at
the other sixty persons being assembled at a Sunday evening j
service, where various trance addresses were delivered. The
Moniteur de la Federation Beige informs us that Le Chercheur,
also a Belgian Spiritist journal, is about to issue a volume
of prayers, for use at Spiritualist religious services.
At Cherbourg a pamphlet has appeared, entitled Spirit¬
ualism, its Advantages \gnd Means of Promulgation ; it is
addressed chiefly to the uninitiated. The Spiritualist So¬
ciety of Monte Video and Buenos Ayres has published its
fourth annual report, of which a translation is given in the
Messager de Liege. From this report it appears that though
there exists an excellent journal in Monte Video, the Revista j
Espirista, little progress has been made during the past j
year in forming circles or developing mediums, and mem- j
hers are exhorted to turn their attention more particularly
to this point in the work of the coming year. A close
friendship appears to exist between these Brazilian Spirit¬
ualists and the Belgian Federation, to which some of the
Brazilians subscribe. This is a good example. All central
organisations should receive support from local societies, in
order that the power of distribution from the fountain-head |
may be continually increasing. i
Among the Spanish Spiritualist journals, The Criterio |
Espirista, as usual, takes the lead. The June number com- 1
mences with a short history of the Spanish society, which j
shows that, like our own, the Spaniards have to contend with 1
the difficulties of organisation. A new Spiritualist society, I
termed Fe Razonada (Judicious Faith) has been established j
at Lima, where Don R. C. Berard gave the inaugural address. |
In this we see distinctly that the founders of the society, |
while believing in the immortality of the soul, in future j
rewards and punishments, and in reincarnation, express j
their firm Conviction in the Divine mission of Jesus Christ as
the Saviour of the world. We also see that at Valladolid
<i personal protection amongst all men is a duty recognised rl
by our doctrine,” and that consequently a system of mutual j |
communication between the members of all the local societies |
in Spain has been instituted, by means of which those persons j;
who are subscribers to the central society may obtain admis¬
sion to the local organisations. There is a Spiritual paper
termed La Luz de Sion (The Light of Sion), at Bogota, in
Colombia.
The July number of the Criterio contains an introductory
article by Don R. C. Berard, on the communication of the
invisible with the visible world, and a semi-theological one
by Senor Manuel Sanz (the literary merit of which is not
high) on << Doubt in Society,” The usual items of news
appear in the Criterio, and Spanish Spiritualists continue
to be posted up in an excellent manner as to what takes
place, not only in Europe, but America.
The Monte Yidioo ioamdi {Revista Espirista) for June does
not contain any article worthy of especial notice.
England and Islam; or, The Counsel of Caiaphas. By
Edward Maitland. Tinsley Brothers. 1877. (Second
notice.)
This book is a noteworthy illustration of the capacity for
growth and for spiritual development in every honest many
by Ci honest man” being meant him who fairly and fearlessly
follows out each different line of thought as it opens itself
to him. And hence the book illustrates also the old words :
“ Then shall ye know if ye follow on to know.”
Mr. Maitland’s earlier works appeared under the auspices
of Mr. Thomas Scott; so that it is witlffsome surprise and
amusement we find the author declaring in England and
Islam his conversion to the general doctrines of Spiritualism.
He says : “ When I commenced this book I had seen much
of what is called 6 Spiritualism’ without arriving at the first
step toward conversion, namely, belief that the phenomena
were genuine. From the second step—that.they are due to
spiritual entities—I was absolutely removed, though aware
from mesmerism that there are faculties in man of which
science can render no account. . . It was the manifest want
both of candour and reason on the part of scientists that
first disposed me to treat the phenomena as worthy of heed,
and led me to enlarge for myself my system of thought, so
that it might be capable of holding any facts whatever that
might appear to me to be facts, instead of imitating
1 science’ by narrowing my theory in order to exclude such
facts as would not coincide with my foregone conclusions.
. . . Omitting phenomena as inadequate for my satisfaction,
I set to work in another direction to complete my system of
thought respecting the meaning of existence. ... I felt
that I could not believe in the reality of the spiritual
hypothesis on the evidence of the senses alone. I had first
to ascertain that it is possible to form, in idea, an harmonious
and consistent conception of the spiritual world, before I
could allow myself even to surmise its existence on the
strength of physical phenomena, of which the genuineness
is, at best, doubtful. . . . But—since I began this book—I
have, while sitting alone at my work in perfect calmness,
received the most irrefragable demonstrations of the accuracy
of the theory which, by dint of the purest reason, I had
constructed respecting the spiritaal basis of the universe.
And just as—one by one—the doctrines of materialism fell
under the stress of facts in man’s history and in my own,
so—one by one—they were replaced by proofs of the sub¬
stantial truth of the doctrine known as 1 Spiritualism.’ ”
The fact is that Mr. Maitland’s honest search after truth
had been for some time leading him out of the dark and very
short paths of materialism, and had gradually led him toward
the light. His dawn lingered, but his sun rose at last; and
just now, as this book shows, he is somewhat dazzled by the
light flooding on and around him.
The simplicity and unity of principles on which all existence
is formed, is a primary spiritual doctrine, and this doctrine
is frequently noted in the pages of England and Islam. The
doctrine that “ all life is Cod ” is nothing new; it was in
the world before Abraham, and Hermes-Trismegistus and
Zoroaster expressed their faith in the one God by whom we
live and move and have our being; but to the Spiritualists
of this age belongs the credit of having revived the long-
buried truth; a truth which some philosophers, and even a
few clergy, are now beginning to perceive and to enunciate.
To Mr. Maitland has now come an apprehension from
within—so forcibly as to come as a revelation—of some of
the eternal and universal principles. To him, therefore, all
the phenomena of life appear with a meaning and a purpose,
as he perceives them all to be, in their diverse forms, the ex¬
pression and result of a uniform and eternal principle. He
considers that as men have individual souls, so nations have
individual national souls, and that therefore a nation may
sin by its politics, and may sacrifice its soul-life to its tern-
porary interests. He considers also that animals have souls,
and that therefore not only vivisection, but the eating of
meat is murder. He even says, “ The so-called insensate
unconscious atom is as conscious of my existence as I am of
its existence ; the difference lies in the character and extent
of our respective recognitions of each other. . . All con¬
sciousness is one consciousness; and the consciousness of
the parts is but a limitation of that of the whole.”
Another essentially Spiritual doctrine which he enunciates
is, that “ all error is but' limitation,” and that it is simply
by reason of our being but a part, and not the whole of God,
that we suffer the limitations of the part instead of enjoying
the perfection of the whole. . . . And the universal aspira¬
tion of the religious consciousness of man, and not of man
only, but of the whole creation, towards recombination and
redifferentiation, is no other than the inextinguishable
yearning of all that exists to fulfil in itself the two essential
functions of the Divine nature by manifesting at once its
duality and its unity.”
On this duality Mr. Maitland is very urgent, and says,
‘1 Professor Tyndall has told us that the smallest atom of
matter contained a positive and a negative pole. And
Biology informs us that the smallest protoplastic monad, is
inherently dual. . . . God made man in his own image, male
and female. ... It is by virtue of the dualism of the primary,
underived, supreme existence itself, that the like dualism
pervades every plane and sphere of the secondary, derived,
subordinate existence which we call Nature. . . . From the
feminine proceeds the masculine; from the womb of space
proceeds the Logos ; from the Ark upon the waters proceeds
the living humanity; from the true woman issues the man.
Before Phoebus Apollo, is Aurora; before Horus is Isis;
before Buddha is Maia; before Christ is Mary.” Mr.
Maitland looks upon a coming regeneration; and he con¬
siders that the practical recognition of the dual Divine
existence will at once accomplish and constitute this coming
regeneration.
He urges vegetarianism and abuses a the carnivora” and
says—“ In spite of all that the ministers of the Orthodoxies
may say—whether they be priests, doctors, or scientists of
any kind whatever—it is not his food or his facts that vitalise
the man; but it is the man who vitalises his food and his
facts. And this he does by his own prior vitalisation by the
soul of humanity. In that soul, God is incarnate in every one
of us. And, as a portion of God, we are free and are able to
make for ourselves the materials upon which we operate
into the heaven of a happy, healthy life, or into the hell of
an unhealthy, miserable one. It is because, at the bidding of
orthodoxy, we have adopted, for body, mind and soul, a regime
unsuited to us by nature, that we suffer so much. On the
true, pure diet we should find all the delights of life en¬
hanced. We should love and be loved more tenderly and
heartily. Envy and all uncharitableness would vanish. For
we should be so well in mind and body that we should fret
for nothing. And even death would be no complete separa¬
tion, as we should be in the possession of faculties so sublimed
as to enable us to hold intimate communion with those we
have loved on earth.”
Such are a few of the Spiritual principles enunciated in
this discursive book. It was confessedly written in.great
haste; and it would have been better for the subject, as well
as for his readers, if the author had not published in haste,
as the composition is unorganised, the expressions are fre¬
quently awkward, and the sentences confused and too long.
His political opinions are, of course, founded on his Spiritual
theories; but the two need not have been inextricably woven,
and might have been judiciously disentangled. Like many
other prophets—notably the earlier Isaiah—he begins to
utter his burden concerning his immediate political and
social surroundings; but, as he continues, he is caught up
into a higher region, whence he sees the things present as
but a portion of the past and of the future. He has also
the defect—common to all newly initiated prophets—of con¬
fusing types with identities; and, consequently, in his pages
Mr. Gladstone figures as Moses and as St. Paul; and the
conduct of England towards Turkey is considered as part of
our national sin of vivisection! He makes a tirade against
orthodoxy, whether in religion, in science, or in society, and
he exposes in forcible language the insidious and dreadful
influence and power of Sacerdotalism; but the reader is
puzzled on reading that, in the matter of Cain and Abel,
the sin lay with Abel, not with Cain; “ it was as the pro¬
phet, abhorring the sacrifice of the innocent animals, and
vindicating the character of the Almighty, that Cain slew
Abel, an act for which he has ever since been stigmatised
by the Sacerdolists as a murderer.”
Again—“ Orthodoxy, whether in religion or science, is
the negation of the absolute truth that the sun, and not the
earth, is the source and centre and true self of the solar
system.” It is rather a wide and wild leap of thought to
perceive also that it is Orthodoxy and Sacerdotalism which
prevent England from opposing Russia.
But the defects of the book are only on the surface; its
merits are the integral parts of it. Very admirable are his
remarks on the unsatisfactory “ manifestations ” made by
the spirits. “ It is one of the faults of orthodoxy that it
fails, alike in religion and science, to recognise as good in
itself, whatever indicates vitality, and as bad whatever indi¬
cates morbidity; and the contempt with which the manifes¬
tations known as ‘ Spiritism ’ have been received by some
persons reputed to be scientific, arises from this failure
of orthodoxy. It is not that the forces in action are them¬
selves contemptible, but that modern modes of life and
thought are unsuited to the operation of those forces in us.
Our structure has become too coarse, our blood too impure,
our whole being too crass and dense for those finer in¬
fluences which are around us to enter into communion with
us. Their music is played to deaf ears, their visions are
spread before blind eyes. Our nostrils cannot detect the
sweet odours of the gardens of the spirit, nor can our
palates detect the exquisite flavours of its pure sug¬
gestions. Degenerated in our mental, as in our spiritual
perceptions, we are — if amenable at all to the
‘spirits’—amenable to only those which, by belonging
to the lower stratum of their own spheres, approach nearest
to our level. That the manifestations hitherto obtained are
generally of a low character, is thus but a proof, not that
they are wholly a delusion or a folly, but that we ourselves
are incapable of anything higher. For it was necessary that
those first commissioned to act as pioneers in cutting a road
through the dense thicket of man’s spiritual nature, should
belong to the lowest of the rank and file of the army of the
skies.”
“ Orthodox science is characterised by three defects: First
it assumes that it knows, in advance of experience, both what
are the limits of natural fact, and what are the limits of the
natural faculties by which the fact is to be judged. Secondly,,
it assumes there are no facts which are not expressible in
terms belonging to a single plane of consciousness ; that is,
it assumes the reality of all that is ’perceived by the senses on
one plane, namely, the physical, and it attempts to explain,
in terms derived from that plane, phenomena which appertain
to other planes ; and failing to find such explanation it re¬
jects all insoluble phenomena as fraud.”
For equally trenchant remarks on various other topics we
refer our readers to the pages of England and Islam;—a
book of particular interest to the psychologist in its defects
even more than in its merits, as evidencing the active but as
yet chaotic fermentation of eternal spirit on a finite in¬
telligence. G. T. C. M.
On Sunday next Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver an inspirational
address, in the Freemasons’ Hall, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
at 6.30 p.m. Subject—“Man : his place and nature.’’ On Monday he
will deliver another inspirational address at the same place. Subject,
to be chosen by the audience. Commence at 7 p.m. Mr. Morse will
also be present at the picnic of the Newcastle-on-Tyne Spiritualists’
Society on Wednesday, August 8th.
Mrs. Fletcher’s Mediumship.—The Banner of Light says, “Mrs.
Susie A. Willis-Fletcher, with her son, and Miss Mattie A. Houghton,
sailed from New York City for England, July 7th. Mrs. Fletcher goes
to join her husband in London, purposing, however, to return to Boston
in September. Miss Houghton, who takes the journey as a sort of
vacation, will return to her office, Room No. 5, 8|, Montgomery-place,
this city, the latter part of August or the first of September. We take
great pleasure in introducing these ladies to the Spiritualists of the Old
World as mediums of proven merit in their specialties.” Mrs. Fletcher
has arrived, and informs us that she will not receive the public profes¬
sionally for the present, but will be pleased to see friends at 14,
Southampton-row, Holborn.
August 3, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 51
52
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 3, 1877,
PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA AMONG THE HIGH- !
LANDERS OF SCOTLAND. |
(From the v Edinburgh WeeMy Review?'1) f (
A land of apparitions—empty shades.—Young. I (
Coming events cast their shadows before.—Campbell. j(
Man has in all ages been strongly attracted by the sublime and the j >
marvellous. He has always felt an indefinable craving after a know- |)
ledge of the mysterious secrets of life and a desire to bridge the gulf j (
that separates his mere mortal existence from the unseen, the infinite, j j
the unknowable. Even in his most remote antiquity he has yearned I (
after some order of being superior to his own, and in this primitive but j \
awful worship is clearly to be traceable the doctrine of the immortality j >
of the soul. Not till nations had made great progress in the cultivation ] (
of the arts, and in the building of cities, union of States, and pomp, i \
dignity, and invincible power of arms began to feel their pride and j)
strength, was the doctrine of the perishable nature of the human mind j j
ever asserted. Man in his simple and savage state looks above, not ] j
below, himself. The most elevated and original minds of this age pass j j
their lives in doubt. This noble inherent instinct of our nature, that | (
when the body crumbles into dust, the spirit dieth not, but seeks some j j
happier clime, and which is common to all races, in modified degrees, j /
had so possessed the human mind before the introduction of new j (
systematic creeds of religion, that the air and even the groves and ! \
houses were filled with swarms of sympathetic spirits hovering about I)
them. Not to go farther back than the Romans, the Manes, Lares, j j
Lemures, and Larvae had taken such a hold on the public mind, that j (
when Lucretius—who was the most absolute of sceptics, and who did j)
not admit the existence of the human soul as an immortal part of man j (
—wrote his great poem, he could not shake off the belief in ghosts. He ! j
considers their existence and their frequent apparition undeniable, and, j /
with the view of reconciling his system, he accounts for them at the | (
expense of abandoning part of his general doctrine. In
Among no people that we know, has the belief in ghosts, pure and j j
simple—and by ghosts we mean the one unchanging and exact spirit of Ixj
the dead—intertwined itself so strongly with their faith, and exerted so < j
large an influence, not at all degrading, over their lives and actions, as I j
among the Highlanders of Scotland. The Greek and the Celtic concep- j (i
tion of ghosts is nearly similar, but the Romans multiplied the original I )j
unit according to their own fancy. Ulysses descended to Hades i (j
‘‘where dwell the witless dead, the images of deceased mortals,” and Ip
then meeting his mother who had died since his departure for Troy, he M
was desirous of embracing her with filial affection. “ Thrice, indeed, m
I essayed it,” he says, “ and my mind urged me to lay hold of it, but j u
thrice it flew from my hands, like unto a shadow or even to a dream.” : j
At the death of a Roman three distinct, and sometimes four spirits m
emanated from him. His Manes went to the infernal regions—the j j
Greek Hades; his animse went to the skies; and his umbra, or shadow, \ )j
hovered about on the earth, m
The Jews believed in a good and evil spirit accompanying each man j |
born into the world, as may be seen from the incidents consequent upon | )j
the miraculous delivery of Peter from prison; to whom may be added, ; O
as we find in Plutarch, such worthies as Origen, Hierome, Plato, and j JI
Empedocles; and this belief, whether proper to the Celtic tribes from j) |
the earliest times, or borrowed from the race of Abraham, seems to linger j (|
still in the Highlands of Scotland. (i
There are few districts on the shores of the Western Highlands where | ?j
woeful cries and sorrowful lamentations, preceding the drowning in that j (j
spot of some person, have not been heard. Midnight wails and shrieks | j j
of agony still disturb the lonely traveller, and the high hanging rock and I) j
the dreary solitudes, where the tender ear of bright day hears nought j l \
save the whirr of the moor-hen, the bleating of sheep, and the barking j) j
of dogs, with the occasional fully-rounded oath of the Saxon sportsman, j)!
re-echo back from the heathy summit to the vale the doleful sound, and 11 \
cast a mysterious sense of loneliness and chilly eerieness over the spirit j j |
of the Celt. A Highlander who despises this belief, and ignores the j 7 j
tremendous power it has exercised over his countrymen—over their I (j
morals in peace and their courage in war—is unworthy of his race and i j!
the fine sensibility which distinguishes them, and is ignorant of its !'7j
growth and origin. There is first, the belief in the independent life of j u
spirits; but that would not be sufficient to act as a perpetual stimulus j > i
if these spirits showed an indifference to the interests of their progeny. ] ||
The Highland ghost exercises an increasing watchfulness over the j \|
concerns of his friends—weeps with them, rejoices with them, warns j ;i
them of impending danger, and rebukes their errors. Philoprogenitive- | (|
ness is the largest ingredient in the Highland character, and has I \!
created this species of ghost—the sympathetic and unreserved spirits /|
through whose thin forms “ the stars are seen,” and who are merely I < |
etherealised human beings. A Highlander of the old school—and, let :y
us hope, of the modern also—has, like Hamlet, his father “in his mind’s |)!
eye,” which ennobling sentiment acts like a strong check upon his worse | (|
nature, and.is an incitement to emulate or outstrip his sires in renown, j jj
This feeling is the glory of the poems of Ossian ; nor is it unknown to |)]
Homer; “ And do thou, my friend,” says Minerva to Telemachus—“for |<j
I see that thou art honourable and great—be brave, that some one of j|
posterity may speak well of thee.” , j )j
And, indeed, where could ghosts have abode if not in the Highlands jyj
of Scotland ? The wide, ever-flowing wastes of the ocean; the towering i||
mountains, whose peaks “are the beds of clouds,” and round whose j/!
swelling breasts white mists curl and wreathe their fantastic forms, like ] (j
chains of pearl on a lovely woman; the winding valley through whose m
bosom the mountain torrent, with its hollow murmur, runs at his wild |f
will, and on whose sloping sides the fragrant birch tosses its full foliage; !<j
the serpentine folds of clouds that chase each other in the gloaming, and i)j
the broad dusky cloak of night, lend an awe to the scene which no one |) j
who has not observed it can conjure up by the highest effort of imagination, uij
The ghosts of Ossian are of the class above described. There is anothet j|]
species of Highland ghosts who are the evil genii of the persons they
visit, and appear to torment and avenge themselves on the wicked.
“ Which of you have done this ? thou canst not say I did it;
Never shake thy gory locks at me,”
exclaims Macbeth in remorseful mood when the pallid and blood-
besmeared visage of the slaughtered Banquo encounters him. in the
banquet-hall. ' Even at the last hour, when the secrets of the prison-
house were disclosed, he endeavoured to avoid the appearance of guilt.
We believe that the great high priest of the muses—Shakespeare—has
well expressed an idea which all nations have readily received into
their catalogue of supernatural beliefs. . . .
“ Foul deeds ■will rise,
Though all the earth o’erwhelm them, to men’s eyes.”
The Highlanders have always believed that unnatural and monstrous
deeds meet with retribution ; that ill-gotten gains bring a curse in their
train; and that in the case of murder the spirit rests not until it is
avenged on its destroyer, and is certain to betray the perpetrator of the
crime. And have not spirits visited this earth to testify to acts beyond
the knowledge of man ? If philosophic argument and reasoning be
against it, there are many well-attested facts, and the evidence of
honourable men and philosophers themselves, in its favour.
“ If ancestry can be in aught believed,
Descending Spirits have conversed with men,
And told them secrets of the world unknown.”
The ghost of Julius Caesar, whose “ Et, tu Brute ” might have melted
with shame the heart of the patriotic orator as he stabbed him in the
Senate-house, appeared to Brutus on the night before the battle of
Philippi, as he was reading in his tent. The pale stranger told Brutus
he was his evil genius, and the soldier with stoic composure said, “ Then,
I will meet thee at Philippi.”
“ The times have been that when the brains were out,
Then man would die, and there an end, but now
They rise with twenty mortal murthers on their crowns,
And push us from our stools.”
We give the following on the authority of a person well known to us,
and whose veracity and honesty we could not for a moment doubt.
About thirty years ago there lived in the island of Lewis, and in the
village of Borvabost, now rendered famous by Mr. Black in the fortune¬
making novel, the Princess of Thule, a young maid who went by the
name of Anna Bhan, which means Anna the Fair-haired. She was
wooed by two swains from the village, one of whom was received with
favour. The success of the fortunate lover so aroused the jealousy of
the rejected party, that the latter resolved on an act, from the contem¬
plation of which his mind, free from the fierce and delirious wine of
passion, would have recoiled in horrible disgust. This was no less than
the murder of the innocent girl. How that could be accomplished
without the risk of detection he summoned “ the genius and the mortal
instruments to council,” to debate the matter deliberately. Between
Borvabost and the adjoining village there ran a stream, strong and rapid
in winter, though almost dry in summer, and, like the bricks in Jack Cade’s
chimney, it is there to this very day, “ alive to testify.” A plain plank of
wood, whose ends were laid upon opposite banks of the stream, served as a
bridge. Anna had occasion to pass this frequently, and on the very day on
which he put his designs in execution the elements seemed to help him.
Incessant rain made the stream swell and leap madly, carrying with it
in its muddy course the uprooted debris washed down the overhanging
slopes, and the loud crackling of thunder mixed with the roar of the
ocean. The girl had passed on the evening of this day, and he imme¬
diately went to the spot across which the plank was thrown, dragged it
to one side of the stream, and, with a saw, with which he had provided
himself, cut it in two within an inch. He contrived with difficulty to
place it on the stream again, and retired to a secret nook in a crag
whence he could see any one passing. The fair-haired Anna came;
marched with firm pace to the middle of the plank—a crash—a cry,
which was drowned by the turbulent current; a hand uplifted, vainly
beseeching for help, and all was over. All which he viewed with
fiendish delight. The deed was done, but to him it brought the begin¬
ning of the end. Ah! what serpents with “ soft-stretching throats” and
venomous teeth now caressed him and coiled their scaly coats round his
heart! The body was borne to the sea, and the murderer went to rest
with a new bed-fellow—Remorse. That night the girl appeared to her
lover, standing by his bedside, with a countenance more of kindliness
than of anger, with her locks dripping wet, and one hand outstretched
over the head of her lover. The young man was terrified to see her in
that guise; he rose to embrace her, but the figure vanished, and spoke
not a word. By this time the news of the girl’s death had been spread over
the village, and all the men therein had turned out to search for her, her
murderer among the rest. The lover’s heart sank within him. There
was a heaviness as of lead on his limbs. He could not move, but in his
distraction he spoke as follows:—
Ah, dead! she’s dead ! she must be dead,
—And he tore his raven hair—
My life is death, my joy is fled ;
Sorrow has settled on my head,
And in my heart despair.
The villagers are out, and men
Search in the bosom of the glen,
But whither shall / go ?
She’s dead—she lies in chilly state,
And desperate has been her fate •
But ioliere I cannot know.
She’s dead—I weep : Ah! I could brook
Upon her white red corpse to look,
And not one tear to flow.
But ah! the hours of our embrace,
The light that shone upon her face,
August S, 1877.
THE SPIEITTJALIST.
53
Her little sayings, gentle ways,
That make me scorn my future days,
Are foaming tearful through my blood.
As current through the nodding wood;
I whispered on the hills of myrrh
A thousand tender things to her
That deepen now my woe.
The body was never found, and the lover’s sorrow turned to revenge on
his rival whom he suspected of being the author of the crime. The
ghost of Anna appeared a second time, and confirmed his suspicions by
articulate speech. Could he live and see fair Anna’s murderer pass by
his door daily ? No, he must have life for life. Soon he met him, but
when in the act of striking a blow, the ghost interfered. Anna stood
between them; her murderer shrieked and fell to the ground. She
beckoned her lover away, and to the prostrate man said, in an audible
tone—-
Small snakes on thy vitals shall faro,
And the water is still in mine hair.
The self-condemned man never rose; he was dead. Expiation was
made for his sin, and the lover lived all the rest of his days in con¬
suming grief.
Highlanders have in particular been credited with the extraordinary
gift of second sight. This, of course, could never originate did not the
implicit belief in ghosts precede. But in second sight the ghost of the
still living man appears to the seer, either in the shape and figure of
its earthly tenement, or indicates in some mysterious manner, by some
prophetic foreboding, the approaching death of the person it represents.
This belief of second sight, which slowly dies, is founded on the opinions
regarding the plurality of guardians that the Celts held in common with
the Jews, as we remarked above. Sometimes the ghost appears before
the person dies, and from its position, habit, and season of appearance,
the visionary gathers its meaning and purposes. If a woman is seen at
a man’s left hand, she will be his wife in future; if two or three are
seen, they will be successively his spouses, whether married then or
not. If a figure is seen shrouded to the waist, the party will die in a
year; if he is all covered by it, his death will happen in a few days.
If seen in the morning it will happen in a few hours after, and if at
noon, that same day. Numerous accounts are given by Highland writers
on this subject of visions appearing to people at the very moment when
a friend at a distance was afterwards ascertained to have died. In the
islands of Lewis and Skye, and also on the mainland, people are still
preserving the habit of gathering as of old round their roaring peat-fires
to dance, sing, crack their jokes, relate stories, and what is more con¬
genial to the young folk, flirt, which is always done in very modest
fashion by Highland youths. On these occasions if a person rises up
suddenly and leaves the company without speaking, he is at once
credited with having seen an apparition, of which he can only get rid by
going into the open air; and these may be repeated several times during
the same night. When the sightseer enters he is seldom questioned as
to what he has seen, unless he himself shows a disposition to communi¬
cate the secrets revealed to him. A man who has once seen an
apparition is a sightseer ever after, but he has not the power of com¬
municating it to another, like the mysteries of charms and witchcraft,
nor can he by any means enable another to see the vision at the same
time with himself. Instances are known on which women, believing
themselves to be under the influence of spirits, have fainted, and even
old prophets do not much relish the spectacle. This subject is closely
allied with the phenomena of dreams, and the nightly visions of a sight¬
seer are considered of equal meaning and purport with his waking
dreams as the philosophic reader may call them. After all, Highlanders,
though credited with the gift, have never made such an absurd exhibition
of themselves as the hundreds of educated London ladies and gentlemen
who have filled the pockets of “ Dr. ” Slade with guineas during the last
winter. Can the force of mental obliquity further go than to find in this
nineteenth century crowds of scientific savants, who deny to the High¬
lander his second sight, and still believe in modern Spiritualism ?
./Eneas Patjlus.
ANOTHER HAUNTED HOUSE.
At a farmhouse in a village of  , in Nottinghamshire, the
waggoner who rose one morning at two o’clock a.m. to take a load of
corn to Nottingham, was putting on his boots near the door of the kitchen
when he heard what sounded like the clogged feet of the servant girl
walking behind the clothes-horse by the fireplace. He expressed his
surprise at her being up so early, but, receiving no reply, he looked
up, when he saw a stranger, a woman, who walked towards the door,
brushed past him, and disappeared, the door being still shut and
locked.
A short time after this appearance, the wife of the occupant of the
house being extremely ill, changed her room to one not usually used
by the family. She had her nurse with her. They had not long re¬
tired, when a loud rumbling noise was heard as though a heavy garden
roller were being rolled down the wall of the room and on the floor.
This continued at intervals during the night, and it was as impossible
to account for it as it was to obtain any sleep. In the morning the
wife informed her husband of the circumstance, expressing her extreme
alarm and determination never to sleep there again. He pooh-poohed
the affair, endeavoured to account for the noise, and said he would
sleep in the room himself. He did so, and had not fallen asleep before
the same extraordinary noises occurred, precisely as described by the
wife. At length some heavy body rolled on the foot of the bed—rolled
heavily and slowly upon him up to his face, and so on up the wall to
the ceiling.
Some years afterwards the daughter of the above farmer, having
married, and left the village, had a singular dream concerning this same
ghost. She dreamed that she went into the cellar of the old house at
home, and by the window stood what appeared to be a woman with
wings, who looked at her very pleasantly, and held out to her a rusty
key; she pointed with the extended finger of the other hand to a
window seat. As she looked so pleasant the daughter, in her dream,
walked up to her, when she suddenly vanished.
The dreamer is living, and could authenticate the whole story. It
is a pity no search was made and the mystery unravelled. B.
CATHOLIC ESCHATOLOGY.
The state of Catholic eschatology at the period of the Reformation
may be briefly stated as follows:—It was held just possible for a man
at the end of his earthly life to reach the goal for which he had been
created, that is, heaven. Such a one, by a diligent use of the means
of grace and the practice of piety, would appear before God, at the
moment of death, free from all debt of temporal penalty, and so would
pass at once to heavenly bliss. This, however, would happen only to a
very few. The great majority of men would die in a very different
state. They would pass out of this world more or less affected by sin.
Either they would appear before God, forgiven, but with a debt of
temporal penalty, greater or smaller; or else unforgiven, having died
impenitent, and in deadly sin. Hence it was held that at the moment
of death every soul must appear before the judgment-seat of God, in
order to have its place assigned to it in the future world. This was
the first or particular judgment; the last, or general judgment, will
take place at the Great Day, when the Lord Jesus will come in glory,
and the dead will be raised. The places to which a soul might be con¬
signed at the moment of death were three—hell, purgatory, heaven.
Into hell were cast all who were finally determined to evil; all who
had died impenitent, unforgiven, and in deadly sin. It is described in
the Catechismus Romanus as “ teterrimus et obscurissimus career,
ubi perpetuo et inextinguibili igne damnatorum animee simul cum
immundis spiritibus torquentur, qui etiam gehenna, abyssus, et propria
significatione inf emus vocatur,'1' Very terrible are the popular descrip¬
tions of hell, in which the element of fire as the instrument of a never-
ending torture played the chief part. The graphic scenes depicted by
Dante may be taken as embodying in an artistic form the visions float¬
ing in the popular mind. But they are not theology. In the schools
of theology far more sober views of the punishment of hell prevailed.
While the doom of hell was universally held to be irreversible, and to
last for ever, it was a permissible opinion that the poena ignis might
be taken metaphorically. What was really held as matter of faith was
that the punishment of hell was twofold, consisting partly of the poena
damni, and partly of the poena sensus. The poena damni was the ap¬
palling sense of all that had been lost by sin ; the poena sensus was real
pain, which might be variously inflicted. It might consist, according
to the Catechismus Romanus, in “ verberibus et ftagellis, aliove
graviori suppliciorum genere.” Into purgatory were sent all who,
having died forgiven, had not yet paid the full temporal penalty of
their sins. It is clear that purgatory must be the fate of the great
majority of men who die penitent; for of how few of the ordinary class
of Christians can it be said that they have no debt of temporal penalty
to pay ? The great majority of men die with a heavy burden of sin to
confess on their death-beds. It is clear that the temporal pain which
is the recompense of these sins cannot be borne by them in this world.
In addition to this, for deadly sins confessed during life and forgiven,
the debt has never been discharged; many grave sins, too, have
escaped observation, or have been forgotten, and thus a large debt of
temporal suffering has been incurred. Now, on this point of temporal
suffering, poena temporalis, the mediseval Church was most strict; nor
can purgatory be at all understood unless we keep it clearly in view.
The whole mediseval theology was, in fact, grounded on this idea ; it
revolved round that saying of our Blessed Lord, “ Agree with thine
adversary quickly whiles thou art in the way with him, lest at any
time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver
thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison. Yerily, I say unto
thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence till thou hast paid the
uttermost farthing.” On this text was grounded the penalties of sin,
temporal and eternal. The eternal penalty was remitted to the sinner
in justification ; but the temporal remained, and must be paid by him.
Hence the raison d'etre of purgatory. It was simply the place of
suffering, where this pain could be borne. In regard to purgatory
itself, it was a state of purification. Its pains, like the pains of hell,
were twofold, consisting of the poena damni and the poena sensus. The
! poena damni, however, was only a dilatio felicitatis. The poena sensus
was intimately associated with the idea of fire; though here, again,
the fire might be taken literally or metaphorically. There are many
other points in regard to purgatory that might be raised, such as the
J aid which is given to souls detained there by the suffrages of the faith¬
ful on earth. But as these do not concern our immediate object, they
| may be passed by. In regard to heaven we need not say much.
I Those only were admitted to it at once who passed out of this life with-
| out debt of temporal penalty ; all others, only after having discharged
the debt of purgatory. The bliss of heaven consisted in the Beatific
Vision, but there were many different degrees of glory and of reward,
according to the saying of our Blessed Lord, “ In My Father’s house are
many mansions.”—Church Quarterly Review.
The American spiritual periodicals have printed nothing about the
funeral of Mr, Robert Dale Owen.
The following is told of a grave-digger in a cathedral town in the
north of England. One day, whilst “gathering in” the remains of an
aged parishioner, he observed some women weeping by the grave-side.
Turning round, he sharply demanded of them, “What are ye crying
for? If ye dinnot bring ’em at eighty, when wad ye bring ’em?”
54
THE SPIKITUALIST,
AMust 3, 1877.'
SPIRITUALISM IN ITALY.
THE RECEPTION TO THE BARON AND BARONESS YON
VAY.
Next Friday evening, August 10th, the reception to the
Baron and Baroness Yon Yay, of Hungary, will be given at
the Rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists, 38,
Great Russell-street, London. Mr. Alexander Calder, the
President, will open the proceedings. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Gales Forster, of the United States, will be present, also
Mr. John Storer Cobb, Secretary to the Theosophical Society
of New York; these and other friends will probably briefly
address the meeting. There will be some music and sing¬
ing, but we have received no information as to the details.
It will be the last social or general meeting for two or three
months, as very little will be going on in connection with
the National Association of Spiritualists during the dead
season. All Spiritualists can attend the soiree next Friday,
and not members and their friends only, and no doubt many
will assemble to welcome our visitors. Doors open at seven
o’clock.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S LAST SEANCE.
The Boston Herald says:—It was the writer’s good
fortune, while on a visit to a prominent Spiritualist in
Brooklyn, N.Y., three weeks ago, to meet, for the first
time, Mr. Robert Dale Owen, and to dwell under the
same roof with him for several days. One who was at all
sensitive could not meet the old gentleman without becoming
sensible of the pleasant influence which surrounded and
emanated from him. At the same residence was an ex¬
cellent private medium, and once or twice a day circles
would be held. So marked were the demonstrations
that other members of the circle could not help be¬
coming sensible that the gathering was one that awaited
his coming into the other life. The writer fancies that
even Mr. Owen so interpreted it, for at times the lan¬
guage was unmistakable.- Among others who came was one
who announced himself as “ Commodore S., who knew Mr.
Owen in Naples, and had many a good time with him.”
Mr. Owen asked for the full name, and it was given—“ Com¬
modore Stringham.” “ That is very good,” said Mr. Owen,
“ and I know to what he refers. Has he anything to say
to me ?” The reply came—“ Yes, you can’t row your boat
much longer; it is time for you to go into the cabin.” Mr.
Owen seemed disposed to take the communication literally,
and alluded to his boat at home on Lake George ; but the
control interrupted, saying, “No, that is not meant; you
have sailed a good ship ; you have kept a straight course;
the voyage is nearly ended, and you will soon come to an
anchor. Then I shall meet you on the shore in company
with your other friends and relatives who wait your coming.
Do you understand ?” Mr. Owen replied that he did, and
for a time a feeling of sadness fell on the little company,
for they knew that Mr. Owen was soon to exchange the
corruptible for the incorruptible, and the mortal would put
on immortality. At a later seance^ when Mr. Owen was
taking an afternoon rest on one of the warm summer days
of early June, the intelligence was communicated that his
mission was nearly ended, and before the autumn leaves fell
he would be among those in the spirit whom he longed to
greet. This was Mr. Owen’s last stance, and a pleasant one
it was. As a prominent author was also present, it will,
undoubtedly, at some time be presented, with all its details.
Birth.—At Hackney, July 30, the wife (Florence E. Cook) of Cap¬
tain Edward Elgie Corner, of a daughter.
On Sunday, August 5th, Mr. W. J. Colville, inspirational medium, will
deliver two orations and poems, on subjects chosen by the audience, in
the Spiritualists’ Meeting Room, Derby-street, Macclesfield. After¬
noon, 2.30 ; evening, 6.30. Admission free.
Miss Kislingbury, Secretary to the British National Association of
Spiritualists, will leave Liverpool on the 15th of this month, on a brief
visit to the United States. She will, no doubt, be warmly welcomed
there, and return to London in a short time after collecting much in¬
formation by personal observation about Spiritualism in America.
Mourning Customs.—The principal mourning customs of the Romans,
with such modifications as Christianity suggested, continue to the present
time, and black is universally adopted as mourning colour throughout
Europe, in America, and in all the colonies founded by Christian races.
Blue or violet takes its place in Turkey, brown in Egypt, grey in Abys¬
sinia, white in Japan, and yellow in China. Scottish Reformer.
n BY THE REV. THOMAS COLLEY, TEMPORARY CHAPLAIN AT NAPLES.
| Temporarily acting as English chaplain here at Naples,
| I have the pleasure of studying Continental Spiritualism
| through the kindness of Signor Damiani, at whose house
| weekly, and sometimes oftener, we meet the Baroness
| Cerrapica, a very gifted trance medium, with whom the
| Signor has, during the course of eight years, had upwards
|| of seven hundred sittings.
| Our circle is a small one, but almost always includes a
I dignitary of the Roman Church, who, with our host, takes
| an active part in social converse with the invisible powers
| that speak through the Baroness. These are numerous
j; beyond calculation, and as varied as they are many; and
| the linguistical endowments of the Signor, and the clas-
| sical attainments of the Canon, are frequently in demand
j to put the circle intelligently en rapport with the mental
] identities that speak through the medium. Three of the
I domestics also of the Signor’s household are mediums, and
j one, when present, sometimes clairvoyantly perceives, and
j in a whisper describes, the control that is about to manifest
j through the Baroness.
I One peculiarity about this lady’s mediumship is, that the
I voices, mind, inner thought, and outer manner of persons
| yet living sometimes come through her—the dramatic crea-
I] tion to the life of persons she has never known,
j Another characteristic is, that unhappy spirits are suf-
j fered to take control, and state their miserable case; and
I then the Canon, leading them in prayer, directs their minds
j upward, so that they appear manifestly to progress, and
j after two or three devotional seances are marvellously
! changed.
But controls of the highest order, sublime in look and
j manner, with sweetness and dignity combined, have the
j normal possession of our friend. Conversation with them
I is sweet indeed, and most instructive. The problems of
I this and the higher life are canvassed, and a record is kept
|| of these voices from beyond (which, I trust, Signor Damiani
j will publish) ; the wisdom they convey is in diction perfect,
j : and the language is such as Dante might have used or
j Cicero speak, if at any time reincarnated.
I For I must not omit to notice that the doctrine of reincar-
nation is upheld and taught here, by spirits both in and out
)! of the flesh. The utmost unanimity prevails regarding this.
[I The controls through the Baroness are sometimes astonished
II to see in the person of some living member of the circle the
11; reincarnated spirit of one who was perhaps their earth com-
!! panion ages back. I have been greeted by classical speaking
I controls, now, as a Roman warrior (Aniceto), and now as a
!l Greek philosopher; and one of the controls was sorely puzzled,
\\ a few weeks ago, to see, in one of our company, the spirit of
'| Aristides the Just still tangled up in parcels of fibrine,
II albumen, and phosphates, that have conspired to build up the
|i body of our living friend ; and when the question was put as
>[ to the need of one so just to be reincarnated, the answer was,
!j that though well nigh morally perfect, yet intellectually it
|i was to his benefit that he should thus return to earth once
11 more, to see, investigate, apprehend, sift, and mentally deve-
|| lope those powers that should balance, with masculine reason,
| the more feminine qualities of his former virtues. But this
11 question grows under my hand, and I must stop; for though
j it is a most interesting speculation that the reincarnation of
j Elijah in St. John the Baptist should make us deal with
j patiently and modestly, yet, as it is only a speculation (inas-
| much as it lacks the physical demonstration which other
j phases of Spiritualism do not lack), I forbear.
11 Since writing the above, and after our usual seance with
(j the Baroness to-night, a remarkable matter transpired,
a Some short time ago, a rustic, patois-speaking spirit mani-
>| fested through her, and gave the name of Zappacosta, saying
! that he had been a peasant living on the estate of a gentle-
ji man present, at our circle, Baron de Riseis. The name
>! Zappacosta is as strange and unusual in Italian as Hedge-
| digger would be in English (which, by the way, is its literal
) | translation and meaning) and the Baron knew none of his
|| dependents of such a name. But the circle was further
|| astonished when the control declared that he had just been
fj murdered by his own brother, at a place named on the Baron’s
55
August 3, 1877.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
estate near Chiete, and begged that our friend would write
to ascertain the truth of his statement. Baron de Riseis did
so, and this evening, just as our sitting was over, he came in
with the answer received, giving an account of the sad
occurrence, which was found to agree most exactly with what
the control had affirmed, all being literally correct. Then,
naturally full of the subject, as we were talking about it
during supper, the medium was again suddenly controlled by
the same power, and a request was preferred that intercession
might be made to the authorities on behalf of his murderer,
and our prayers also were asked on behalf of the murdered
man. Saints Camillus and Urban were named as propitious
and helpful to the control (suggestive to the thoughtful of
how the creedal mind—in this case Roman Catholic—survives
the dissolution of the mind’s physical organism), and the
Baron recognised these as the patron saints of the place where
the man was killed. His estate is across country, about one
hundred and twenty miles from here, and the circumstance
could not, unconsciously or otherwise, in any way have been
known to our friend the medium, the Baroness Cerrapica.
Thomas Colley.
Casa Grifeo, Rione Amedeo, Naples, July 19th, 1877.
THE RELIGION OF THE LITERATI.
BY J. T. MARKLEY.
We are told in Scripture that they are fools who say in
their heart there is no God; and we learn from experience
how lamentably unwise it is to cast a soul-cheering theology
to the dogs notwithstanding the unbrotherly bitterness be¬
gotten in the battle of the creeds. In the face of all the
cant, sectarian selfishness, and disguised devilism of
innumerable Christian professors, it is well to consider the
important, everlasting interests of the mental faculties and
obvious spiritual being, whose existence it were folly to dis¬
pute, especially as some of the world’s profoundest thinkers
in every age and clime have endorsed the enchanting theory
of an unknown, but reasonably anticipated future life. That
much abused, but brilliant philosophical bard, Percy Bysshe
Shelley, affirmed in his latter day illumination, “Another
and a more extensive state of being, rather than the com¬
plete extinction of being, will follow from that mysterious
change which we call deathand if we are to receive as
truthful Lady Shelley’s memorials, the subtle favourite of the
Muses paid no mean tribute to the Christian faith, for he is
reported to have said, “ The Being who has influenced in the
most memorable manner the opinions and fortunes of the
human species is Jesus Christ. At this day, His name is
connected with the devotional feelings of two hundred
millions of the race of man.” Like most men of genius,
Shelley experienced the theological infidelities and limited
charities peculiar to the embryo state of intellectual develop¬
ment ; but subsequent reflection taught him many moral
truisms which the vain-glorious judgment of his earlier man¬
hood refused to perceive, or was too proud to endorse. At any
rate the famous personage who sang of the mystic gesticula¬
tions of the “ Sensitive Plant,” and saw special wonders in
the floating vapours of the air, was led to admit the necessity
of a supreme spiritual Power, even if he could only accept the
Christian faith on the broad rationalistic basis of an undog-
matic, Unitarian belief.
Tennyson has reproduced in a new form, what to many
litterateurs has ever been a choice theological maxim :—
“ There’s more good faith in honest doubt, believe me,
Than in half your creeds.”
Perchance a devout soul sharing the love of God, but sick
of sectarian jealousy as of sin, is not far from the Kingdom
of Heaven. This remark may seem strange to those who
think more of their creed than of Christ; who strive more
to display their party colours than to extend the blessings
of spiritual salvation—to whom “ our beloved denomina¬
tion” is a sweeter sentence than “ God is love ; ” but surely
the lines of the Laureate are more an expression of broad
religious sentiment than a fearful indication of irreverent
disbelief. That an important portion of the literati—male
and female possessors of genius—has always seen fit to stand
aloof from the Church, conservative and aggressive, is a
fact 5 but that there are many reasons for its so doing we
I must in all fairness admit. Surely it is not surprising that
persons gifted with capabilities of idealistic conception ;
warm and sportive fancies ; acute powers of comprehensive
discrimination; and those other mental peculiarities which
constitute clearness of vision and sympathies guilty of pro¬
gressive expansion, should fail to see a beauty in the bond¬
age entailed through swearing by the Athanasian creed.
Surely the literati, than whom no class of beings delight
more in the sacred prerogatives of the individual conscience,
are not to be condemned because they will not abet priestly
tyranny ; a system of mental slavery outrageous to the sense
of enlightened reason, and insulting to the dignity and finer
feelings of a noble race of beings, whose welfare can only
be advanced by the continued acquisition of sweetness,
liberty, and light. As to Nonconformity in its more pro¬
saic, sternly Puritanic expression, the absence of musical
charms and the cold enunciation of a hard and dry God-
slandering Calvinism, the sectarian exclusiveness and grace-
monopolising bigotry begotten of a narrow theology, it
presents no special attractions for those large-hearted
“ Knights of the Pen,” whose splendid moral and imagina-
| tive endowments must needs be exercised for the good of the
| whole, and not for a portion of mankind.
Be it not supposed that our famous bards, novelists, and
! historians, are all a godless set of mortals because the most
! of them do not stand directly identified with the different
organisations of the Church militant. How uncharitable to
conclude that because the giants in literature do not labour
for the aggrandisement of particular theological schools of
thought, or the defence of a certain egotistical clique, that
| they are necessarily en rapport with the Prince of Darkness.
Many men who have no programme of classified divinity
nevertheless entertain a burning love for, and participate in,
the beautiful hope-fostering religion of Christ. The far-
| famed “Lake “Poets” saw reflections of the Almighty in
the glassy depths of the still waters, in the soft tendrils of
the many-tinted mountain flowers, and in the fading blaze
| of the calm autumn sunset; they beheld, and wept for very
| joy, their hearts overflowed with a love uncontrollable, and
| their lips were often moist with the incense of many a sweet
! prayer. Poetic genius is only another form of religious
| emotion; indeed, all the true “ high priests of nature,” from
Job to Jean Ingelow, have sworn fealty to the God of the
planets, whom they lovingly traced in flood, field, and sky,
if not in those clashing forms of faith for which fiercely
combative religionists so earnestly contend. At the risk of
being reproached for latitudinarian charity, I venture to affirm
that there is an existing goodness apart from the shout of
the loud public psalm; a deep love of Deity in many hearts,
| which no deafening flourish of trumpets proclaims. Could
I a stony-hearted sceptic have written Hood’s sympathetic
| “ Song of the Shirt,” and that truthful climax of city-life
I sorrow, “ The Bridge of Sighs,” on the cutting pathos of
| which I need not remark ? Now, Hood was a funny man
! and a “ laughing Christian,” hating cant as strongly as a
bishop hates Dissent; but whence came his philanthropic
inspiration; from heaven or the caverns under the earth ?
I would not altogether defend the irreverent “ Byronic
school” of litterateurs, whose intellectual pride impaired
their moral force, and whose emboldened disregard of religious
etiquette stands out as an unseemly blot on their brilliant
| muse. Of this class Algernon Swinburne is no unfairly
I selected living counterpart and representative. His song is
bold, beautiful, and bright as the lurid flame of a prairie
camp fire; but it is only a semi-pagan blaze, and, like the
kindled faggots of the wild Indian, it is the frequent illumi¬
nator of an impure conception when it might be the dark-
! ness-dispelling help of some noble design. Rather let me
I plead for the more reverent spirits, whose mental greatness
has an accompaniment of moral goodness ; gifted men and
| women of sterling merit, who live above the cant of a
! market-place piety—clever scribblers, whose lives are sweet,
whose prayers are short, and whose deeds are golden.
Peterborotigh.
| Mr. C. E. Williams intends leaving London for the Continent
about August 13th.
The Rev. Thomas Colley will spend a short time in Switzerland,
1 on his way back to London from Italy.
56 THE SPIRITUALIST. Awwst 3, 1877.
duetts.
THE LAST CHORD.
Seated one day at the organ,
I was weary and ill at ease ;
And my fingers wander’d idly
Over the noisy keys.
I know not what I was playing.
Or of what I was dreaming then ;
But I struck one chord of music
Like the sound of a great Amen.
It flooded the crimson twilight,
Like the close of an angel’s psalm ;
And it lay on my fever’d spirit,
With a touch of holy calm.
It quieted pain and sorrow,
Like love o’ercoming strife;
It seemed an harmonious echo,
From out discordant life.
It linked all perplexed meanings
Into one of perfect peace,
And trembled away into silence,
As if it were loth to cease.
I have sought it, hut seek it vainly,
That one lost chord divine,
That, came from the soul of the organ,
And entered into mine.
It may be that life’s bright angel
Will speak in that chord again ;
It may bo, that only in heaven,
I shall hoar that grand Amen.
From A. A. Proctor's Poems.
HYMN*
0 Thou whose image in the shrine
Of human spirits dwells divine,
Which from that precinct once conveyed
To be to outer day displayed,
Doth vanish, part, and leave behind
Mere blank and void of empty mind,
Which wilful fancy seeks in vain
With casual shapes to fill again!
0 Thou that in our bosom’s shrine
Dost dwell, unknown because divine,
I thought to speak, I thought to say,
“ The light is here,” “ behold the way,”
The voice was thus, and thus the word,
And “ thus I saw, and that I heard,”—
But from the lips that half essayed,
The imperfect utterance fell unmade.
0 Thou, in that mysterious shrine
Enthroned, as I must say, divine,
I will not frame one thought of what
Thou mayest either be or not.
I will not prate of “ thus ” and “ so,”
And be profane with “ yes ” and “ no
Enough that in our soul and heart
Thou, whatsoe’er Thou may’st be, art.
Unseen, secure in that high shrine,
Acknowledged present and divine,
I will not ask some upper air,
Some future day, to place Thee there ;
Nor say, nor yet deny, such men
And women saw Thee thus and then ;
Thy name was such, and there or here
To him or her Thou didst appear.
Do only Thou in that dim shrine,
Unknown, or known, remain, divine;
There, or if not, at least in eyes
That scan the fact that round them lies,
The hand to sway, the judgment guide,
In sight and sense Thyself divide :
Be Thou but here—in soul and heart,
I will not ask to feel Thou art. A. H. Clough,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should he kepthy the writers.']
Sir,—I desire to call your attention to the enclosed extracts, which I
think will be interesting to the readers of your paper. They are taken
from an article by P. J. Prudhon, in the first number of the Radical
Review, a new American Quarterly, published at New Bedford, Mass.
This review “ is a publication for the thorough, fearless, and impartial
discussion of all sides of all subjects pertaining to human welfare,
whether social, economic, scientific, literary, aesthetic, or religious. .. .
But its management, while aiming to conduct it in this Catholic spirit,
yet, conceiving some subjects to be of more immediate importance than
others, and believing that the so-called Labour Question, involving as
it does, the basis of property, the principles of finance, and the organi¬
sation of industry, and seriously affecting, in its settlement, directly the
materia], and indirectly the mental and spiritual condition of the people,
* From Poems, by A, H. Clough, Macmillan and Co., London.
demands consideration by the best minds—will give the preference
largely, in the selection of its contents, to articles relating to this dis¬
puted problem.”
Here are the extracts:—
“ I certainly have less inclination for the marvellous than many
atheists, but I cannot help thinking that the stories of miracles, pro¬
phecies, charms, &c., are but distorted accounts of the extraordinary
effects produced by certain latent forces, or, as was formerly said, by
occult powers. Our science is still so brutal and unfair; our professors
exhibit so much impertinence with so little knowledge; they deny so
impudently facts which embarrass them, in order to protect the opinions
which they champion ; that I distrust strong minds equally with super¬
stitious ones. Yes, I am convinced of it; our gross rationalism is the
inauguration of a period which, thanks to science, will become truly
prodigious; the universe, to my eye, is only a laboratory of magic,
from which anything may be expected.
****»##
“ But since religions and philosophies, dissolved by analysis, have
disappeared in the theory of the absolute, we know no better than before
what spirit is, and in this differ from the ancients only in the wealth of
language with which we adorn the darkness that envelopes us. With
this exception, however, that while, to the ancients, order revealed
intelligence outside of the world, to the people of to-day it seems to
reveal it rather within the world. Now, whether we place it within or
without, from the moment we affirm it on the ground of order, we must
admit it wherever order is manifested, or deny it altogether. There is
no more reason for attributing intelligence to the head which produced
the Iliad than to a mass of matter which crystallises in octahedrons;
and, reciprocally, it Is as absurd to refer the system of the world to
physical laws, leaving out an ordaining me, as to attribute the victory of
Marengo to strategic combinations, leaving out the first consul. The
only distinction that can be made is that, in the latter case, the thinking
me is located in the brain of a Bonaparte, while, in the case of the
universe, the me has no special location, but extends everywhere.
# # # * * * *
“Impenetrability, which is pretended to be the definition of matter, is
only an hypothesis of careless naturalists, a gross conclusion deduced
from a superficial judgment. Experience shows that matter possesses
infinite divisibility, infinite expansibility, porosity without assignable
limits, and permeability by heat, electricity, and magnetism, together
with a power of retaining them indefinitely; affinities, reciprocal in¬
fluences, and transformations without number: qualities, all of them,
hardly compatible with the assumption of an impenetrable aliquid.
Elasticity, which, better than any other property of matter, could lead,
through the idea of spring or resistance, to that of impenetrability, is
subject to the control of a thousand circumstances, and depends entirely
on molecular attraction: now, what is more irreconcilable with impene¬
trability than this attraction ? Finally, there is a science which might
be defined with exactness as the science of the penetrability of matter: I
mean chemistry. In fact, how does what is called chemical combination
differ from penetration ? ... In short, we know matter only through its
forms; of its substance we know nothing. How, then, is it possible to
affirm the reality of an invisible, impalpable, incoercible being, ever
changing, ever vanishing, impenetrable to thought alone, to which it
exhibits only its disguises ? Materialist! I permit you to testify to the
reality of your sensations; as to what occasions them, all that you say
involves this reciprocity; something (whichyou call matter), is the occa¬
sion of sensations which are felt by another something (which I call
spirit).
#**#*##
“ Thus, whether philosophy, after having overgrown theological dog¬
matism, spiritualises matter or materialises thought, idealises being or
realises ideas; or whether, identifying substance and cause, it every¬
where substitutes force, phrases all which explain and signify nothing,
—it always leads us back to this everlasting dualism, and, in summoning
us to believe in ourselves, compels us to believe in God, if not in spirits.
It is true that, making spirit a part of nature, in distinction from the
ancients, who separated it, philosophy has been led to this famous con¬
clusion, which sums up nearly all the fruit of its researches: in man
spirit knows itself, while everywhere else it seems not to knoio itself.
‘ That which is awake in man, which dreams in the animal, and sleeps
in the stone,’ said a philosopher.
* * * * * * *
“We have reached one of those prophetic epochs when society,
scornful of the past, and doubtful of the future, now distractedly clings
to the present, leaving a few solitary thinkers to establish the new
faith, now cries to God from the depths of its enjoyments, and asks for
a sign of salvation, or seeks in the spectacle of its revolutions, as in the
entrails of a victim, the secret of its destiny.” A. Yacher.
SPIRITUALISM IN JERSEY.
Sir,—I think it well to let your readers know how Spiritualism pro¬
gresses in the charming island of Jersey. My lecture on the subject
was attended by a large and influential audience, and the discussion
afterwards was of a very animated nature. If I did not succeed in con¬
vincing any one, I certainly awoke thought and inquiry, for many of my
auditors called on me for further exposition of our views, and promised
to support Mr. Williams or Mr. Eglinton if they would pay a visit to
Jersey, and demonstrate the truths on which I could only lecture. In
fact, I had arranged with Mr. Williams to come to Jersey in August,
but domestic matters will detain me in Dublin for that month. It would
be joy to me to hear that Mr. Williams kept the appointment without me.
I have to thank the cultivated and philosophical Spiritualists of Jersey
for much hospitality and attention; if the faith does not claim numerous
followers in that Island, they make up in quality what they lack in
quantity. There is one very remarkable private medium there, through
August 3,1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
57
whom the same phenomena occur as those I see reported in this week’s
issue as happening in Dublin, namely, the table dancing about at its
own sweet will, walking first on one leg then on the other as desired,
showing to the most sceptical evidence of an outside “force,” psychic
“ or otherwise.” I am not at liberty to give this medium’s name ; she is
a lady of undoubted position and culture, and everything in her presence
is unaffected by light or darkness.
I was received and most hospitably treated by a family of Spiritualists,
who gave me permission to use their names, as a most extraordinary
practical proof of spirit power had been given to the lady — Mrs.
Decarteret—in the restoration of the senses of smell and taste, which
she had lost for some years, and never hoped to regain. The senses
returned during sleep, and in accordance with a spirit’s promise, given
to her husband that same evening in London, at Mrs. Olive’s seance.
Such a miracle happening in the very midst of her family you would
think would create a great sensation, but no. She tells me her people
accept the fact of her recovery, merely thinking it a coincidence. This
family holds a stance every week, and are developing an inspirational
trance speaker, who promises to be very fine. He will revolutionise
Jersey, as the people, knowing his education, will be certain his orations
are not the result of reading or study.
I gave free seances to all, and startled many into further inquiry by a
form of mediumship I have nearly lost in this climate—the replying to
written questions which I do not see. Many private friends will testify
to the blank astonishment of their visitor’s faces when little pellets of
paper, rolled up and placed in my hand, were replied to by the
psychic ” or . other ” force. This was astonishing because none but
the writer could know what was written. The replies I see sometimes,
in letters in the air; at other times I hear the answers; at other times
my mind appears for an instant a blank, and the impression is conveyed
to the brain in a manner I cannot describe. I always know beforehand
whether I can give answers or not. I had a sitting of this kind with
Mr. Fletcher before leaving London. It is a startling form of medium-
ship, and I speak of it hoping to induce others to try for the same kind
of development. Philosophical lectures and inspirational discourses
are good, but still proof of spirit power is necessary to wake up the
slumbering materialistic masses.
In Jersey good seed has been sown by a highly cultivated minister
and congregation of Swedenborgians, who are supported by the poetic,
terse, and trenchant pen of the brother of our Poet Laureate, Mr.
Tennyson, to whom I owe grateful thanks for much social enjoyment,
and many hot arguments. The right arm, literally speaking, of the
spiritual movement there was broken. Colonel regretted so much
not being able to be with and help me, having met with an accident. I
spent many delightful evenings with the family of Professor , who
sees spirits in his normal condition. I was entertained by Mrs. ,
a most enthusiastic Spiritualist, who invited sceptical friends to meet me.
The drawing-room discussions there were animated enough to make us
all forget time, and I assure you my object in going to Jersey for health,
change, and enjoyment, was mainly furthered by this lady’s attention,
and the delightful social hours spent in her charming home. If you can
induce some of your physical mediums to go there before my memory
shall have died out, they will find a newly-awakened desire amongst the
people to fathom “ what it all means.”
I being Irish, I found two bonds of sympathy between the people and
myself, our enormous cultivation of potatoes, and our determination
to have <l Home Rule.” There is no law there to victimise or prosecute
a medium; the country is as free as America, and that is saying a great
deal. Sabah Pabker.
Dublin, July 23rd, 1877.
DR. SLADE IH BRUSSELS.
Sib,—I have much pleasure in sending you some news of Dr. Slade.
This powerful medium arrived in our capital a few days ago from the
Hague, and has commenced holding a series of seances in broad day¬
light. We have been astonished by the marvellous and inexplicable
things which he has enabled us to see. I will not go into the details of
the manifestations, they have been given in such profusion in the Spirit¬
ualistic journals of England and America; but we have seen produced
under our eyes most of the phenomena so recorded, namely, direct
writing on the single and double slate, and generally in English, but
sometimes in French, Dutch, and English, on the same slate. A chair
was elevated vertically, with a person sitting on it; the same chair was
moved horizontally; handkerchiefs were taken from the sitters and
returned tied in several knots; various articles of furniture were moved
about; All happened in full daylight, while the medium’s hands were
held on the table, and while his feet were visible and motionless.
Dr. Slade will remain some time in Brussels ; his presence here will
afford many the opportunity of learning that there is something more in
Spiritualism than they thought. Jacoby (Lt .-Colonel.)
11, Rue de Vienne, Bruxelles, July 27th, 1877.
MESMERISM AND PHRENOLOGY.
Sir,—Mr. Coates, in your impression of July 27th, judiciously
advises that students in Spiritualism should not only add mesmerism,
but also phrenology to their studies.
Mr. Coates remarks that, in his experience, “ subjects who are able
to give names, dates, and events, with accuracy at one time, were also
able at all times to do so, and those who were not able to give names
always manifested that peculiarity.”
I should not have expected such an invariable rule, either in the
mesmeric or in the normal state. Do we not constantly meet with
individuals who, in the waking state, have what is called a bad
memory for either dates, names, or events ? But these same individuals
often do remember certain names and events; they have a bad
|] memory but there is not necessarily an entire obliteration of that
)j faculty.
(! Probably, my patient, who described a biscuit in such a roundabout
)i way, had the organ of Individuality small or inactive, but I think
) I there was no inconsistency in her sometimes remembering the names of
s I things and sometimes forgetting them.
j] We find that to be constantly the case with people in the normal
u state.
(i I have a bad memory for names of persons and places, and they
)| are generally the same names which I forget; other names of persons
! (j and places I never forget.
| ( Some people, who have a bad memory for names of persons and
i) places, have a surprising memory for events, and no doubt phreno-
| ( legists would find in these cases small Individuality and Locality, and
|) large Eventuality. It would appear that memory is not one distinct
j) faculty, but that each of the perceptions has a memory of its own, good
| (i or bad, dependent on the more or less healthy action or activity of
m each special organ. J. James.
| ! Tottenham, July 28th.  
f IS CRIME GOVERNED BY LAW?
1(1 Sir,—Strange events transpire within the experience and memory of
nj all, especially those of us whose lot is thrown among the crushing
! throngs that gather in our cities; I refer to persons engaged in the
| (| manufactures of our inland towns, or the activities and bustle of our
| j | seaports. As the light of sun dawns upon our earth, it not only makes
| (| the beautiful more lovely, but it also makes the horrid more ghastly; so
| (j the light which reveals to us the grand possibilities of our being, unfolds
|)| to us at the same time the greatness of our imperfections, and especially
j (1 so is this made manifest to those who are observant of the incongruities
|| of our being, as displayed in our cities.
1 / { The thoughts which I throw out are intended to be suggestive, rather
i< I than an attempt to deal with the question that heads this letter, and, as
|) j such, may not be uninteresting to the investigator of the occult or the
j) j mysterious in life. It may help some one to throw a light upon the
(j causes behind epidemics of crime, behind those phases of criminality
| | which appear in the worst forms, for instance, the series of knife crimes
j); that convulsed Liverpool about March, 1867, and have now again
(j arrested the attention of the police authorities in July, 1877.
| | The sudden impulse to destroy life in others seems connected with the
I) i same instinct that leads men to self-destruction or suicide. But apart
i (| from those diseased states of brain that indicate or manifest impure and
| | deranged mental proclivity, and to a large extent account for individual
! | crime, we must look outside the predispositions of physical being for
j j | the causes behind the fact that crime runs in grooves or ruts. Folly in
! S | one man is speedily copied and repeated by a number of others, and that
! | without any previous intention or design on their part, as sadly, but too
! j truly, illustrated by life in its lower phases. One man, suddenly
I) | maddened by some cause, acts upon the impulse of the moment, plunges
j<;| a deadly weapon into the body of another, for a real or supposed offence.
| I Did the matter rest here the subject might pass from our minds without
|) | further notice, but, unfortunately, this is not the case, for when one
| (| instance of this kind awakens the public mind, it is speedily followed by
! j j a succession of crimes of similar character. How can we account for
] 11 this ? Is it possible that the same law which so frequently manifests
| I itself during the production of physical phenomena, as understood by
j | Spiritualists, has not something to do with it. In the one case
I | we find many mediums the victims of spirits, who are often unclean,
I (I impure and wholly untrustworthy; and we discover that these mediums
] | are but helpless tools in their hands, doing things which they would
jjj certainly not do had they been masters of their own actions. Now, in
j (j the cases of crime referred to, I observe a similar state of things. If
! | the language of the unfortunate criminals is to be trusted at all, and
| | received as evidence, they will say, “ I do not know what made me do
j it; it seemed as though I acted as I did because an irresistible impulse
|)l had the mastery, and I could not help it.’’ And many would add, “I
! (| would give all I have in the world if I could undo what I have done.”
| j | It may be that human nature is not so bad, however warped, as many
| | persons would have us believe. A recent occurrence furnishes a startling
I < j illustration to make clearer what I wish to convey. A story is going
I1 | the rounds of the Parisian press, which, as our volatile friends are
| extremely fond of the excitable and sensational, furnishes them at
i present with food to gratify their peculiar taste; but to my mind it
presents something more than a mere sensation, it cannot help suggest-
| ing food for thought.
The story in substance is as follows:—In a house, remembered as the
| “ Suicides Hotel,’’ recently razed to make room for the Boulevard St.
| Germain, a number of suicides have taken place, remarkable for the
fact that they have all occurred in one room. About ten years back a
|) I love-sick swain shot himself in it, and twelve months afterwards, in the
1) I same room, a young student, who had ruined himself at the gaming-
| (| table, escaped from this world by the same means. The host, consider-
| j | ing the room unlucky, turned it into a receptacle for lumber, and locked
| | it up. Shortly afterwards a waiter belonging to the hotel, upon some
j petty charge being made against him, availed himself of its seclusion to
| j! hang himself. This being followed by several other suicides, the land-
j lord sold out. The new proprietors were equally unfortunate. A strange
(fatality seemed to hang about the place. With a contempt for the
| “superstitious” and “fate” alike, a druggist bought the place, but
| family difficulties caused him to terminate his earthly career by poison
! in this chamber of death. A new-comer was found for the building.
| He laughed the popular fears to scorn, and to show how little he
regarded them, determined to sleep in the room in question. But when
the house was condemned to make room for the new Boulevard, he,
j because he could only get about one-third of the price he asked for the
| property, went into the fatal room and hanged himself,
i I think that this story, viewed along with the events already alluded
58
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 3, 1877,
to, cannot fail to give matter for thought, and cause us to ask again—
“Is crime governed by law?” If so—and there can be but little doubt
of it—what steps are we taking to elucidate this law? And what light
do observed phenomena in recent researches in mediumship throw upon
the question ?
If considered this way, the Suicides Hotel will do more than to merely
afford the Parisians a morceau of sensational gossip. J. C.
THE PHENOMENA OP CLAIRVOYANCE.
Sir,—Observing on page 20 of The Spiritualist that “ Dr. Carpenter
is very severe on Professor Gregory for his belief in Major Buckley’s
clairvoyants reading mottoes in nuts,” I am induced to state that on |
the above subject of clairvoyance his criticism, however “ severe,” is
not only minor, but absolutely worthless.
t It has never been otherwise, touching mesmerism or Spiritualism,
for some forty years past, either in his native city of Bristol, or else¬
where, as well in the British Association as out of it.
Having had some knowledge of clairvoyance from 1837 to 1877, I !
venture to assure your intelligent readers that the facts and phenomena
recorded by Gregory, Ashburner, Elliotson, Davey, Atkinson, Lee,
and others, concerning this spiritual quickness of understanding, or
lucid power of soul, are real truths in nature. No principle of j
Psychology, not even Instinct and Reason, or any faculty yet classi- |
fied in mental science—nay, the whole encyclopaedia of human know¬
ledge—is more worthy of respectful attention than clairvoyance, quite j
independently of nomenclature.
The power of perceiving objects materially covered and physically
remote, without the use of organic eyes pertaining to flesh and blood,
is said to be communicated to a person only when under the influence
pf mesmerism.
Whilst fully admitting, from scientific experience, that certain in¬
dividuals, having the requisite gifts of what one might call dynamic I!
machinery, manifest the phenomena termed clairvoyance when acted i j
upon by a mesmeriser, or put into a somnambulic sleep, this, I am i1
equally assured, is not the whole philosophy. . . ; (
1 For example, there is living at this moment (for aught I know to the jl
contrary) in the family, or household, of the most talented and accom- | ]
plished Spiritualist in this neighbourhood, a domestic female servant, j;
who, in her normal condition, apparently, is a veritable prodigy, or j
psychological wonder. This is so, if one may affect to be a literary j
purist, since “miracle ” itself but expresses an embarrassment of the jl
human mind, after it has somewhat recovered from the first percussion i.(
of surprise. It is that peculiar state of consciousness produced by j
something new, unexpected, and, for the time being, inexplicable. As I )
regards the feminine wonder-worker to whom I allude, her psychic j
force is adequate to excite in the cerebral organ of Mr. Serjeant Cox, jj
or the vesicular neurine of Dr. Carpenter himself, not only the feeling j
occasioned by an extraordinary event, attended with singular circum- j j
stances, or important consequences, but sincere admiration—if they j
deal j ustly with what is great and good. j
It seems to me that Goldsmith has anticipated what must happen to i
them in the presence of such a marvellous personification of dynamics—• i)
And still they gazed, and still the wonder grew j j
That one small head could carry all she knew. i f
Seven wonders of the soul may be witnessed in the dynamic |1
machinery of the Lancashire witch, far more interesting to our age |j
and nation than the pyramids of Egypt, the Pharos of Alexandria, the j j
walls and hanging gardens of Babylon, the temple of Diana at Ephesus, j
the statue of the Olympian Jupiter, the mausoleum of Artemisia, and N
the colossus at Rhodes. The psychical phenomena already demonstrated j i
in the case of E—:— P , as I conceive, invincibly and conclusively, j
are transposition of senses, action from a distance, prevision, perception j
(independent of molecular structure), lucid somnambulism, spiritual j
agency, and phreno-mesmerism. Proofs differ according to the subject- i j
matter of the thing to be proved, but by sufficient evidence of the jj
credibility of clairvoyance, I mean such an amount of testimony as jj
satisfies an unprejudiced mind, beyond all just suspicion or reasonable jj
doubt. Suffice it to state, in passing, that she has read poetry, with j j
accuracy, at the bottom of a box, unseen by the mortal eye ; described j j
my library, seven miles off, in correct detail; a portrait concealed in a j j
locket, the contents of my clenched hand; and told my actual j !
thoughts, &c. I ij
To furnish details of these seven wonders of the soul would involve j j
a long lecture rather than a short letter. Nevertheless, even to those j j j
who respect probabilities, of whose philosophy of proof there is moral j j j
certainty, I would say that clairvoyance is a mathematical truth, falling j j j
within the experience of the senses. • jj
Has the Spiritualist no right equivalent to the materialist? It is by jjj
induction that facts in natural science are sometimes proved, and shall jjj
ho spiritual inference be drawn from the admitted truths of psychology ? jjj
Who shall decide where spirit begins, and matter ends ? Is not the j j!
same Almighty Power in operation, whether the thing evolved be called j j j
a monad or a mountain, an angel or a mortal? Webster tells us, jjj
credibility is that which renders it reasonable to believe, and Worcester j j
affirms, proof is that which renders evidence certain, whilst to jjj
Carpenter might be quoted the words of Milton:— jjj
Retire, or taste thy folly ; and learn by proof, j j j
Hell-born, not to contend with spirits of heaven. jjj
Liverpool, July 16th, 1877. William Hitchman. jj
MATERIALISATIONS OF SPIRIT HEADS.—NO. 6.
' Sir,—I now continue my record of our stances :—
' July 23rd.—I beg leave to refer to the P.S. of my communication in
your last number, bearing the same date as above Written. I recom¬
mend, also, a close inspection of the photographs therein mentioned. I
write out at once this evening what was only slightly alluded to in that
P.S., with a view to the greater certainty of substantially verbatim
accuracy; and I give the dialogue form as it passed, to enable your
readers to form their own conclusions, rather than impose my own
interpretations.
At the morning’s seance we had had nothing beyond a little ordinary
friendly talk with John King. The weather was bad, and the power
weak. A conclusion was evidently about to be given to the seance,
when I said: “John, before you go, I want to ask you something about
the Thursday evening seance, when you gave us that beautiful bust of
Alexandrine.” “ Well, what is it ?” “ You know that on the left side
of it, on the shoulder and part of the bust, instead of being all smooth
and natural, as on the other side, it was all rough and irregular in the
mould, and so it shows, of course, in the photograph. I want to under¬
stand the reason of that, and hope you will explain it. Was it that in
the process of dematerialising, the matter or stuff partially stuck to the
soft paraffin, and so pulled it out in an irregular way, and roughened
the surface in the mould ?” “ That's just your way, John; you ask for
an explanation, and then put forward your own theory T “ No, I don’t
assert any theory. I only observe a curious fact, and fancy that a
reason for it might possibly have been that; because I could conceive
how, if a partial sticking had taken place, it might explain the appear¬
ance left on the mould. But I want to know about it, and therefore ask
you.” “ Well, now, listen and attend. When we are materialised we are
not very different from yourselves. Do you know what your bodies are
made up off1 “ Well, John, that’s rather a hard question to answer, but
I suppose—.” “ You are made up of little particles—little globular par-
tides." “ What are called atoms, I suppose. But are they all globular?”
Yes, and when your blood moves along its various channels, these par¬
ticles, or globules, roll along one after the other like shot." I asked myself,
though not aloud, whether he meant what we call the globules of the
blood, or vastly smaller ones, composing the atomic constitution of the
serous fluid, in and by which those relatively large “ globules ” are
floated and borne along. But I let the general proposition of globules
rolling along one after the other like shot, through not merely the larger
veins, but through the capillary conduits, pass without questioning or
referring further upon it. He proceeded: “ Well, we collect similar par¬
ticles out of the atmosphere, the medium, and elsewhere." (I supposed
he meant out of mediumistic persons in the audience, and more or less
out of the whole audience, but said nothing.) “ We put them together,
and our great difficulty is to hold them together. They always tend to
fall apart and scatter. A breath would puff them all away. If the
weather or the conditions are bad, and the power weak, we can't do it;
can't put them together, or can't hold them together; or can't do it for
more than an instant. And when we are going to make a mould we must
take the exact proper instant, neither a bit too soon nor a bit too late. Do
you understand ? ” “ Yes, I think I see what you mean. I suppose,
then, that that defective left shoulder of Alexandrine represents a part of
the entire materialisation which did not hold well together, is that it P ”
f Yes, that's it." “Well, then, it is more curious and instructive than if
the whole had been perfect.” “ Now, do you fully understand what I've
told you f ” “I think I do, but I want to think it over a little more.”
“ Well, dear friend (so he always addresses the Count), how do you
understand it ?" This was for all the world like a teacher who, after
giving an exposition, calls on his class, beginning at the head, to restate
its points. He let the favoured Count off easy, contenting himself with
the reply, “ I understand it just as you have explained it.” “ And you,
dear old friend John (to me), tell me how you understand it." I then
had, perforce, to restate it as clearly and succinctly as I could. “ That's
just it," he answered (to my relief).
Thus encouraged I went on to say, “Now let me ask about those
large pieces, which the Count picked up from the cold water, all
irregular and indented on one side, how where they formed, and where
did they come from ? ” “ It is a pity they were not kept, but you saw the
marks of the globules in them, dear friend, didn't you ? “Yes,” replied
the Count,” and I am sorry they got destroyed.” “ Well, but tell me,
John (I persisted), where did they come from, and how were they
formed?” Ah, now you are going off further, and I've got to go off
further, too, so now good-bye, and God bless you." And so he broke off
and went off, but I mean to resume the matter with him if he will let me.
Here is certainly an intelligent and intelligible explanation of that
defective part of the materialisation referred to. It was no result of
sticking, as I had imagined might have been the case. It was not im¬
perfect dematerialisation, as 1 before called it, but imperfect materialisa¬
tion, when that first dip was made, which determines the mould, the
subsequent ones merely serving to thicken it.
At the left lower portion the “ particles ” collected and put together
did not hold well at the instant of the first dip, which determined the
mould. And probably the bust was meant to be deeper than it actually
is, and there was a scattering of the “ particles ” destined to that lower
part, which then moulded themselves on the pieces above referred to as
having been found by the Count floating, and as having been unfor ¬
tunately destroyed. Is there not here a glimmer of light thrown on
this strange phenomenon of “ materialisation ” ?
Observe how well this fits in with so many of the phenomena recorded
in the whole past series of these letters. When we have seen the faces
imperfectly formed—a side, or an upper, or a lower, or a middle part
being wanting, when we have seen them differing in size at the same
siance, considerably larger or smaller; when we have seen them such as
to suggest the idea of their being “ swollen; ” when they could only
show themselves behind the screen of a veil, generally quite thin and
transparent, at other times less so; when John has told us that all his
efforts failed, because as their faces were formed they would “ fall away
on one side or the other till he got quite discouraged; ” when we have
Seen them with evidently no back head there, but only the front or
mask ; when we have sometimes seen the whole head, hair, &c., and at
others the greater part of it hid with drapery, &c., &c.;—these were evi-
August 3, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 59
dently all cases in which, from deficient power, and bad atmospheric or
other conditions, they were unable to mould the “ particles ” into shape,
or to hold them well together from falling away out of it. When
Alexandrine dashed her head so precipitately into the paraffin as to
splash it over, so as to cruelly ruin a suit of clothes for me, and a carpet
for Mr. Firman, it was evidently a case of her being able to hold together
at the proper point of cohesion in form, only for a rapid instant. When
they show sometimes for only a few moments at a time, while on more
favourable occasions of strength they come forward and stay for perhaps
a couple of minutes at a time (we very rarely have got so much as that), it
is evidently a question of degree of ability to hold together in form.
When they sink gradually down and down till the head will, sometimes
nearly, sometimes quite, reach the floor, it is evident that the particles
fall away and disappear as they sink; and then when conversely they
lengthen upwards and float up to the ceiling, the particles of drapery
are recomposed into visible form as the figure rises, like a floating angel.
In thus referring back to past recorded phenomena (i.e., visible facts,
as testified to by all of us over here), I only mean to call attention to the
point that they all fit in with, and harmonise with, the view given by
“ John King,” as above stated, as to how the thing takes 'place.
What is the efficient, causative energy—the intelligent force, acting
with purpose and will—which produces these palpable and visible
results, I do not undertake to say. Some wondrous subtle chemistry,
far beyond that of crucibles, or mixtures, of our laboratories, of our
books, or of our plane of knowledge and power, seems to play its part in
extracting and constituting out of the atmosphere, out of the living
organism of the medium, out of those of the persons present, the means
of thus creating temporary form and body, with all their natural inci¬
dents of ordinary vital warmth, solidity, and muscular force, of mobile
expression of face and action of features, and with their action then in
accordance with what we might expect from the persons of whom they
purport and profess to be the “ spirits”—who can say ?—who can dare
to dogmatise ?
One thing seems pretty clear to me, viz., that the spirits of the
higher, the more supra-mundane planes, cannot work this wondrous
chemistry of the essence of things and of life in our material, or earth-
plane, without the aid, the intervention, the active fluidic power and
energy, of some “ medium ” spirit of a plane nearer and more akin to
us and to our plane than themselves. In a word, without the aid of a
“John King," who seems to be the practical director and manager—
the “workingman” of the concern; lam half tempted to write and
print it thus, the “ working man," so near and so like to us does he
seem to be, so much less distant and less unlike than they. He can do
so many material acts—exhibit so many physical phenomena which they
cannot without his aid and participation. He can speak (as also the
humble little Indian boy), with freedom and force and fluency, when they
cannot. He looks up to them as to a higher category or order of spirits,
while they exhibit affection and gratitude to him for his serviceable
goodness to them. He is reverential towards them, especially towards
“ that high and holy and saintly spirit Glaucus,” of whom he has said
that if we knew all the good he had done to him (J. K.), we would
*f worship ” him as he does. He works and manages everything—as a
spiritual medium to them. They wish and are glad to communicate
with us, and avail themselves of his willing and energetic aid.
July %%th.—I have written you nothing for some days, for the good
reason that I had nothing to say much worth writing, at least, in refer¬
ence to the particular subject or text of these present letters. Only,
once when I asked John King for explanation about the outlying,
broken-off sheets of paraffin so strangely marked on one side (Spirit¬
ualist, July 27th, page 46), he answered that the next time a mould was
made he would try to reproduce some of them, and that then he would
try to explain them.
July 29th.—I have only time to add that we have received from the
plasterer the bust of Glaucus, and to say, what the photographs will soon
enable you to verify, that it is simply seraphic in beauty, at once of
features and of expression. J. L. O’Sullivan.
2, Rue Solferino, Paris.    
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES OF THE REV. JOHN CLOWES.
Sir,—In the interesting article on De Quincy’s character by “ M.A.,
Oxon,” in your last number, he remarks on the powerful influence he
was under from his intimate association with the Rev. John Clowes, of
Manchester. After quoting that “ he (Mr. Clowes) was a man of wide
learning and liberal sympathies, and a , devotee of Swedenborg,” M.A.
says “ he was the author of many Swedenborgian tracts, as well as of
A Plain Answer to some Objections to Swedenborg's System, and of a
volume called Outlines of Swedenborg's System. I think he cannot
know that Mr. Clowes was the translator of Swedenborg’s numerous
theological works from the Latin into English, or he would not have
ignored so important a fact with its consequences, and only credited him
with the authorship of a few tracts. The call of Mr. Clowes for this
work of the dissemination of Swedenborg’s Arcana Ccelestia and other
writings, was as clearly that of a secondary instrument for their propa¬
gation as was that of Swedenborg himself and his preparation for his
illumination to receive the heavenly truths. A few incidents of his life,
illustrating this, may not be uninteresting to your readers. I take them
from his Autobiographical Memoirs, published in 1834.
After his University career, and three years of private tutorship, Mr.
Clowes was seized with severe illness “ that destroyed his prospects,
and all power of prosecuting his studies.” He could not read, and was
led to inward reflection. “ On glancing over a book on one occasion at
a friend’s house, the word ‘ eternity ’ met his eye, and instantly like a
flash of lightning darted into the inmost recesses of his spirits.” He
was so affected by the emotion “ that he could not remain long in any
company, but retired early, and his mind was agitated the whole
night by tbe remembrance of what had passed, and by the
discoveries of an eternal world which were opened to his view; the
I night was spent in alarm and consolations.” From this period com¬
menced a new era in his life. “ He determined to dedicate his days—
which he thought would be few—to the immediate service of his Maker,
by applying himself to the sacred duties of his profession.” This
determination he was signally enabled to carry out. The church Of St.
John was building, and had been offered to him a year previously, which
| offer he had rejected “ with indignation, that he could be expected
to accept an appointment so unequal to his prospects and to his wishes.”
To his astonishment it was “ again tendered to his acceptance, at a
time when affliction had broken his heart, and laid him in the dust of
humiliation and repentance before God; the will of heaven was to be
| accomplished, and for that purpose his own perverse temper changed.”
The next circumstance that had an effect upon his mind was that “ many
months after being settled in Manchester, he was struck with the title of
a book, Christian Perfection, by Wm. Law, and had an ardent desire to
examine its contents with the feeling, What can be the meaning of
| Christian perfection ? His eagerness was irresistible, and his disability
| to read, which had again troubled him, was instantly removed.”
Through the writings of Law he became acquainted with the mystics,
and he considered that, “ by a singular operation of Divine Providence,
he seemed to have lost all recollection of his former academical know¬
ledge, and felt himself reduced, as it were, to a second infancy, in which
he had everything to learn afresh; thus the full time had arrived when
his mind was to be opened to the reception of a brighter and more
| genuine light.”
In the spring of 1773 he was invited by a lady to accompany her on
a visit to Mr. Richard Houghton, of Liverpool—“ a man of much piety
| and learning. His favourite study was theology; it soon appeared he
j was a reader of Swedenborg’s works, and he recommended him to
peruse them in the strongest terms.” Mr. Clowes was too much
! affected by his earnestness not to comply, and lost no time
| in obtaining the Vera Christiana Religio, but how was he surprised to
find that, notwithstanding all the partiality excited by his friend in
| favour of the book, he felt not the slightest inclination to read it. He
was repelled by its size, and, observing it treated principally on points
| of doctrine which required a patient exercise of the powers of intellect
| in order to comprehend them, “ I am satisfied,” said he to himself,
| “with my present spiritual attainments, and with that heaven of inno¬
cence, purity, and peace in God to which they have introduced me ;
what need I, then, trouble or concern myself about speculative investi¬
gations, which cannot add either to my sanctity or bliss?” He thus
discarded all thoughts of looking into his new purchase, and it lay oh
the shelf a whole summer, neglected and forgotten. In the month of
October following he went to visit an old college pupil in Yorkshire.
“On the evening before his departure he opened the long-neglected
I volume, merely to get a better idea of the general nature of its contents,
j when he happened to cast his eye upon the term Pivinum Humanurh.
i The term appeared new and strange, but did not affect his mind to
I produce any lasting impression; on shutting up the book it seemed to
be forgotten and gone.” On awaking one morning at his friend’s house
| “ his mind was suddenly and powerfully drawn into a state of inward
recollection, attended with inexpressible calm and composure, into
which was instilled a heavenly joy such as he had never before expe-
| rienced. Whilst he lay musing on this strange and delightful harmony
| in the interiors of his mind, there was made manifest in the recesses of
i his spirit what he could call by no other name than a Divine glory,
surpassing all description, and exciting the most profound adoration;
! and he was most strongly impressed, by a kind of internal dictate, that
the glory was in close connection with Pivinum Humanum, or Divine
Humanity, above mentioned, and proceeded from it as from its proper
Divine source. The glory continued during a full hour, allowing
him time to view and analyse it. Sometimes he closed his bodily
eyes, and then opened them again, but the glory remained the same;
there was no appearance of a visible form, but a strong persuasion that
| the glory proceeded from a visible form, and that this form was no other
than the Divine Humanity of Jesus Christ.” When the glory disap¬
peared Mr. Clowes quitted his bed, but the recollection of it remained
during the day, whether he was in company or alone; on the next morn¬
ing it was again manifested with increased splendour, and an effect pro¬
duced on his mind “ of convincing him of the spiritual and providential
origin of what he had seen, and the important end to which it designed
to conduct him,” a strong desire to return home immediately to peruse the
| volume, which he did the next day, although intending to have remained
| a fortnight longer. He “ pressed the book to his bosom with an ardour of
i piety not to be accounted for, but from the recollections of the glory
which he had seen, and especially of the change wrought by it in the state
of his affections; he was convinced it was a loud call from above to
peruse the work,” and as he proceeded with it “ it seemed as if a con¬
tinually increasing blaze of new and recreating light was poured forth
| on the delighted understanding.” After going through Swedenborg’s
other works, Mr. Clowes “ was enkindled with an ardent desire to put
others in possession of the same sources of heavenly intelligence,” and
j this desire frequently yet tacitly expressed itself in these words, “ Father,
that they may be with me to behold Thy glory.” But the difficulty was
how to make known this glory to the rest of the world, since it was in a
dead language not generally understood, and scattered through volumi¬
nous writings which would require many years to translate into any of
the modern languages. But that which is difficult and even impossible
with man is possible with God, for, impelled by the strong desire above
mentioned, Mr. Clowes completed the translation of the Vera Christiana
Religio in two years, and the other works in eighteen years afterwards,
j At seventy-four years of age he had the satisfaction of witnessing the
circulation of the doctrines through most parts of Great Britain and
America, in English and in the French and German languages through
various parts of Europe, besides the formation of many societies for
their reading and for particular Divine Worship. F. C. P.
i Upper Norwood,
60
August 3, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A FLYING SAINT.
BY EMILY KISLINGBURY.
The Rev. Gottfried Gentzel, a German Protestant clergy¬
man, has published in Psychic Studies, an account of the
medial powers of Joseph of Oopertino, a saint of the Roman
Catholic Church. The writer remarks that Protestant pre¬
judice, which is too often incompatible with the liberality that
should attach to the right of free thought, has uncommend-
ably relegated to the limbo of superstition that rich mine of
psychological treasure which might reward discriminating
seekers into the legends of the Romish saints. Such psycho¬
logical seekers would necessarily judge of the phenomena by
rules other than those laid down by the Holy Church, and in
cases which have occurred in modern historical times, plenty
of trustworthy evidence exists by which the truth of the
alleged occurrences can be as critically tested as that of any
other ordinary event. Mr. A. R. Wallace, in his Scientific
Aspect of the Supernatural, calls attention to the fact that
the levitation of Mr. D. D. Home is similar to that recorded
of St. Francis of Assisi, St. Theresa, and Ignatius Loyola,
yet omits all mention of the person who is said to have had
the most extraordinary manifestations of this class. This is
Joseph of Copertino, who was born in 1603, and lived till
sixty years of age. His u Life ” was written by P.
Roberto JSTuti, who had himself seen many of the occurrences,
and who received the others from eye-witnesses. Among these
was no less a person than Pope Urban VIIL, who, when
Joseph was about to render the accustomed homage to His
Holiness’s toe, suddenly saw the saint raised and floating in
the air before him. When Duke Frederick of Brunswick, in
the year 1650, attended mass at Assisi, he was induced,
after seeing the holy Franciscan levitated while officiating at
the altar, to leave the Protestant, and join the Roman
Catholic Church.
It is related that Joseph of Copertino’s intelligence was of
so low an order, that the Capuchin monks found him unequal
to the humblest domestic labours, yet that his religious in¬
sight was such as to cause his conversation to be sought by
members of the most learned orders.
The following examples of his flying powers are quoted
from his life by Pastrovicchi, published in German at
Lucerne in 1753. One Christmas night he invited some
shepherds to join in the “ Adoration of the Christ-child.”
Scarcely had he heard the sound of their pipes in the
distance when he gave a sigh, and then with a loud cry flew
like a bird from the centre of the church up to the high
altar, a distance of fifty feet. He remained poised for a
quarter of an hour, and was seen to touch the tabernacle,
which contained the Host. None of the burning waxlights
with which the altar was covered, fell down, neither did his
robe catch fire. At another festival he was praying with
some monks at the Holy Sepulchre when he suddenly rose
up in the air and grasped the Holy Cup. More marvellous-
still was the occasion of the planting of a crucifix on a little
eminence between Copertino and the cloister of Grotella.
After the side crosses had been erected, it was found that
the middle and larger one was so heavy that the united
strength of ten men was insufficient to raise it to its place.
Burning with religious fervour, Joseph was carried through
the air from his station at the monastery door, a distance of
eighty feet, grasped the cross in both hands, and placed it
as though it had the lightness of a wand, in the socket pre¬
pared for it. This cross was afterwards the central object of
many extraordinary scenes connected with his flights.
P It is not to be supposed,” continues Mr. Gentzel, u that
those who witnessed these occurrences allowed themselves to
be deceived; human doubt is as old as the human under¬
standing, and the latter has always rightly felt that the
firm ground which has been gained by thought and by
common experience, would be rendered unsafe by the ac¬
ceptance of such wonders without searching inquiry.”
J. Gorres, in his work on Christian Mysticism, vol. II., p.
515, gives two examples of the powers of flight of Joseph
of Copertino, in one of which he raised beside himself, a !
man whom he had healed.
Mr. Gentzel concludes his paper by calling on the students j
of anthropological and psychological science to include in |
their researches the rich and interesting field of Roman !
II Catholic annals, and to note how far a fervent religious zeal
j affects not merely the belief in, but the actual production of
j many remarkable so-called supernatural phenomena.
S. Joseph of Cupertinum is commemorated on the 18th
| September, the day after the Stigmata of S. Francis. A
j full account of his life will be found in the work of the
Bollandists sub voce this date. The figure used in the collect
for that day, Filium tuum, exaltatum a terra, is further
carried out by the words perfice propitius, ut mentis et
exemplo seraphici confessoris tui Josephi supra terrenas omnes
cupiditates elevati, &c. Here the levitation is alluded to as a
metaphor.
Sir Jung Bahadoor, Prince of Nepaul, India, is dead. He was one
of the most generous entertainers of the Prince of Wales on his recent
visit to that country. His kingdom is under the protection, of the
British Government. He left three widows who did not long survive
him ; but true to an ancient practice of suttee they gave up their lives
at his funeral pyre. With their own hands they strewed the pyre with
sandal wood, after which they took their station on the pile, and were
cremated, along with the dead body of their husband. One of their
| (! sons ignited the pile.
I | The Peception op New Truths.—Mr. T. Berks Hutchinson, in the
H! course of a letter on Spiritualism to a Cape Town newspaper, says :—
j;)i “For my own part, and that of many of the Spiritualists in South
Uj Africa, we do not care one jot for all the editorial rods, anathemas of
[ (j the Church, or so-called scientific exposes. Thank God the days of the
1! | Inquisition have past, for ever I hope. A good scientific education,
| with a well-balanced cerebral organisation, and a large stock of moral
;j courage is all that is wanted for investigators; Mere words are as
i effete to men who seek for pure truth, as water falling on a duck’s back.
| Truth, like gold, can never deteriorate, no matter how often it passes
w! through the furnace of analytical reasoning. Because Spiritualism
|(j upsets some of the pet’dogmas of the Church and science, it is run
| (i down. I ask all honest men to think of Copernicus, Galileo, Columbus,
| i Stephenson, Morse, Galvani, Harvey, Fulton, and hosts of other
|P pioneei’s of great truths. From alchemy and astrology we have our
|)| noble sciences of chemistry and astronomy. Spiritualism will prove,
| )| sooner or later, to be the foundation or nucleus of some" grand truth,
i (| so what harm supposing Spiritualists are found to be in error about the
111 cause ? Prove we are wrong by demonstration, tracing the effect to its
!j cause and vice versd, and then we will change our theory, but do not
j put all down to imposition, hallucination, and deception, without having
| spent any time in practical investigation.”
i Snake-Charming.—It appears that Michigan has a snake-charmer.
| A reporter chanced to be in a small village called Ransom, in
I Hillsdale County, eight miles south of the station on the Lake Shore
I and Michigan Southern Railway, called Osseo. A goodly crowd had
| assembled, when there sauntered into the group a short, medium thick-
lj| set yoang man. His movements were almost as leisurely as the progress
| ji of the hour-hand of a dumb watch, and he seemed at ease anywhere,
yi! He sat down on the platform in front of one of the stores and kept his
111 seat but a moment, when he struck his coat pocket quite smartly two or
! | three times, and said, “Behave yourself, and lie still there.” It was
I v| supposed that he had a kitten confined in the depths of his pocket, and
i|| some one asked why he did not let it out. He smiled, and said
| h perhaps the crowd would object, as it was not a very attractive animal,
i |j They urged him to let the cat out so strongly that he requested them
i ji to stand back so that it would not hurt them, and then, pulling apart
i ( j his pocket, he said coyly to his pet that it should come out and have
i f| some fresh air. With the lightning-like movement of its species, there
|) | glided from his pocket a monster snake of the blue racer variety, which,
I j I in that section of the country, is very common and attains great size.
1 It was fully six feet in length, and as it shot out from his pocket it is
/1 needless to remark that the audience retreated in bad order, and were not
(| for some time bold enough to come near enough to the snake-charmer
11 to see him perform with his pet. It glided over him, wound itself
)| around his arm and neck, and allowed him to throw it around like a
) | piece of rope. It always obeyed his bidding, and showed no inclination
j I to get away. He stroked its shining body with his hand, and played
(| with it as if it had been, as the people first supposed, a kitten. Finally
| i he made it crawl back into his pocket, and carried it away. A man
| i who saw him capture the snake in question said it was racing through
(j the field at a fearful rate of speed—for the blue racer will in his liveliest
| ] moment go as fast as a horse can run—when Wilson, the charmer,
) i rushed up to it and suddenly caused it to stop and come towards him.
(| Wrapping it around his arm and patting it meanwhile, he took it to
| i the house, and from there brought it to the village. When he sets
) j them at liberty it is with great difficulty that he can persuade them to
j i leave him, and oftentimes when he has turned them loose and driven
> | them away he has been vexed to find on turning round that they still
/ j followed him. He stated that he has always had power to charm
(| reptiles, and has frequently captured rattlesnakes, or the more poisonous
11 mocassin snakes, and kept them under perfect control. His statements
(j were corroborated by several gentlemen present. He says that he
11 never pulls the fangs out of snakes, as they will sometimes die from the
) i effects of such treatment, but he is perfectly able to control them at all
(| times, and there is no danger that they will ever bite him. Owing to
| his peculiar talents and tastes it requires some forbearance on the part
11 of the people who employ him, as very frequently it occurs that when
ji he comes from the field to his meals he is followed by one of his un-
}] attractive pets.—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
August 3, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST-
111
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist .TSew&p&pzic and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE OUEISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
' who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn ifrom
' them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. ed.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ’.and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred RusseU Wallace, F.R.Q-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A briffiant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.'
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
■ Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem. Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen hy one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton- 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 16s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
. contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken hy Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit; and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
. the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “ SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
hy vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes hy which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac-
' curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OP THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this hook, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. * 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, fis. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENOE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts; 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ Y. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi A J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . , ,36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . ..76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . , .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims , . . . , . 2 6
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . . .30
Morning Lectures • . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . • '
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism .
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A, Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transited into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindj or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D.,’LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'aiiation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
hy Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .12
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10
1 d.
24 0
2 6
6 0
14 0
18 0
12 6
15 0
7 6
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. Is. 6d.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
Is,
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning, fid.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. Soiled, Is.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholio
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut, is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow.
fid.
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. H. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper. Is.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HATH
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is « Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. fid. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Mediumship • its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualis
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.: post free for lid.: or six copies post free
forfid.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
Btreet, Bloomsbury, London, W.C,
k
IV
The great question of the bay.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True. .
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless? The 'rimes states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 600,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c, ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and. may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and tetter in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.O.S., L A.O., London, writes:—
«I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Sojierby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: "Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say too much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost alwaj s recommend
it to their friends. "We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral "Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.
BY “M.A. (OXON.).”
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION I.
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten's History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, Ho witt’s
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, J udge
Edmond’s Tracts.
. SECTION II.
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana cf Spiritualism,
(reviewed). Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke’s Researches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpable qf
- Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism.
SECTION IV.
Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Pr imitive Christianity and Modem
Spiritualism (reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his JDebateable Land, S. C. Hall's Use qf Spiritualism.
SECTION V.
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exemplifled in simple dear-
sight or psychometrically in Denton’s Soul of Things, and
Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
Arcana de la vie Suture.
SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Dealing further with certain occult powers of
the human spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed),and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
THE TRANS-CORPOREAL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Death: and under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can be ascertained ]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books on the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not bo substan¬
tially changed.
The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, "W".
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
* Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen- questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
August 3, 1877.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition,
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Subscribers will be supplied with early
copies, in the rotation in which their orders and remittances
are sent. Copies may also be had bound in half calf, with
marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
•—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER VLucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Tnnsference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:-Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenorrena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII;—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Established in 1869.
pHAEGE FOE ADYEETISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the", first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
EVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed lor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing "Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, "W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
