Registered as a Newspaper.
No 405.—(Yoii. XYI.—No. 22.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 28, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY, ^
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
: . . . In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
B ETW E E N T H E L I G H IS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Boole to Spiritualists. .
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY. :
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM: STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue. |
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Rededges. -
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Will be Published in a few days, containing striking selections from the writings of Me. William Crookes, E.R.S., Mr. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., Mr. A. R. Wallace, F.R.G-.S., The Committee op the Dialectical Society, Professor Hare, of Philadelphia,
Professor Z6llner, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Captain R. F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The werk will also contain some useful information for inquirers.
' ■ /“Y # 'r r •>"' 71 “‘•Vr •'
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
■ By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
  (Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-bookiby an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“Captain James is, it is needless to say^.,a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the Subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters oU Which the public require information should be
treated;- and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
'secret^ of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure .of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, 1 Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the berefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with naving written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mat 28, 1880,
ALLAK K AED EC’S WOEKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations). '
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). Erom the Hundred and Twentieth. Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861)! From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tettbnee and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIEIT-IDENTITY.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
ei, lamb’s co&Durir Street, w.c.
At home daily from 12 till <5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM ELETCHER,
22) GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
"Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
MR. E. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Bheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHT7MBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
J A M E KALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV: Silt WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOU&ALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
ORPHIC CONCERTS.
THE FIRST GRAND CONCERT OF
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC
■WILL TAKE PLACE at
WESTBOURNE HALL, (WESTBOURNE GROVE)
ON FRIDAY, MAY 28th, 1880.
To commence at 8 p.m. Tickets may be had of Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell Street,
London. Admission : Stalls 3s, Body of Hall 2s, Balcony Is.
Under the direction of Mb. CHARLES LONG and Mb. JAMES POCOCK.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OpR EYES.
By WUXIASt H. lUIUitSOK.
Phis book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the' spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusion ; which naturally flow from5 them afterwards.
Price of thp Libhu^P Edition, oh superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. ' Cloth edition^Ss. ed., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C,
MESMERIC HEALING.
1 NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains ■disappearing and health restored simplyby
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock.- 173,
Rue St. Honors, Paris.
TV/TRS. WOODFORDE Any form
-If 1 Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from I
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\J DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earls-court, S.W.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.
rpO LET FURNISHED, Respect-
-I- able and Healthy Apartments, overlooking the
Park. Suitable for two Gentlemen, (Friends or
Brothers), partial Board if required. Terms Moderate.
No Children. Five Minutes from Bus, Tram, or
Rail, 275, Grove Villas, Victoria Park Road, N.E.
References Required.
A RLIS.S ANDREWS, Letterpress,
-A\_ ’ Copperplate and Lithographic Printer, 31,
Mubeum Street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Three doors
from Great Russell Street.
A LLEGORICAL SKETCHES,
AJl FOUNDED .on SPIRITUAL TRUTHS.
1. The Inward Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. 3. The
Two Voices. 4. The Invisible Teacher.; Price Is. 6d.
Viciouia Steam Pkess, 117,Praed.Street, London, W.
riHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system. ..
J. M. DALE,,
50, Orawford-street, Bryanston-square, London.
Jt uf xtf nnh ti ^jtitpiMfi^m*
No. 405.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER TWENTY-TWO.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 2 8 th, 18 8 0.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
PuBtisHED Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H/ HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary pontributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baroness Yon Vay, Coun¬
tess Whrmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof,
‘ St.'Petersburg
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mrt Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
MrB. Maxdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Saptain John James
S'. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Sirs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T.’Speer, Esq., M.D.,
. Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
© Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs1. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Markley, Esq.
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J, W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Fbiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq:, M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
J.JD. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marry at
Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue. Neuve
des Petits Champs)* Palais Royal, Paris ; 2,' Lihdenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale,- Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege.;. Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai 51, East Twelfth-street, New
York;. Banner, of Light Office, 1), Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.Si ; Beligio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
Nq. 1010y Seventh-street, Washington.
J Advertising terms oh application.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE STAGE.
Within the past ten years much has been
done in this country to raise the social
position of the (schoolmaster, until at last
the man who has successively failed as shoe-
mater, footman, and railway porter, is no
longer considered fit to keep a school as a last
resource. Society is now turning its attention
to the stage, and a feeling is abroad that some¬
thing should be done to relieve the professors
of a branch of art from the obloquy long
thrown over them by the vicious utterances
of the more intolerant and Puritanical section
of pulpit orators!' The painter depicts the
ideas of the poet upon canvas, the musician
externalises upon earth something of the
harmony of the spheres, hut the art of the
actor has a more potent influence upon the
public; the fire of life and motion and passion
is imported into his representations; he
popularises the ideals of the poet in thoughts
that breathe and words that burn. As in
every other profession under the sun, good
and evil is to he found upon the stage; so is it
with its censor, the pulpit; the man who
frightens his hearers with the false doctrine
of eternal punishment, and, poor worm, talks
with glib familiarity of the desires and
thoughts of the Almighty, is leading as vi¬
cious a career as the worst person to he found
among actors, and not unfrequently poisons
the lives of impressible people by inducing
in them a kind of religious mania. A bigoted
organisation exists within the Church .of
England which is said to consist of an “ influ¬
ential body of clergymen, headed by one of
the holiest priests An England,” who “ have
it laid down for them in their rules, that they
are not to go to the theatre or any other
place of known sin.” Yet the theatre has
behaved with more Christian charity to the
pulpit than has the pulpit to the theatre, for
ft is the legitimate province of the actor to
breathe life into the dead pages of history,
and to hold up to view the evils of past ages,
as a lesson and as a warning, nevertheless no
&ufo-da-fe has, Iso far as we know/ ever beerL
represented on the stage, nor roastmgs at
254
THE SPIEI
Smithfield in the days of Good Queen Bess;
indeed such ecclesiastical crimes are too
horrible to bear resuscitation.
A “ Church and Stage Guild” has been K
formed by some of the clergy who are ashamed K
of the past treatment of the stage by their j>
brethren. Presumably within the hallowed n
shades of this Guild young actresses strive to !<
convince young curates of the beauties of the k
histrionic art, and young curates attempt to i;
convince young actresses of the truthfulness K
of the Athanasian Creed. On rare occasions |
a storm arises to mar the harmony of this !?
earthly paradise. “ A Clerical Playgoer ” |>
within the Guild recently forsook his colours |)
to attack the stage in the good old fashion, K
whereupon Miss Ella Dietz came forth with |?
a. pamphlet .on “ The Work of the Actorf a D
capital essay on the social influence of the 5
stage, and gave the backsliding member the K
punishment he deserved. Among the inter- j)
esting subjects discussed at the Guild are the IS
dresses worn in the Ballet, though nobody |<
has yet suggested that angels and fairies shall k
appear in the garb of quakeresses and bishops, j)
Why should this not be tried under the aus- j)
pices of the Church and Stage Guild ? All [s
London would flock to see such an advance in k
ideality and art-culture, such an improve- P
ment upon nature.
Conceptions brought down from the ideal <
world, are placed full of life and power i<
before the public by the actor, making the [)
stage one of the most potent educational K
engines of the day, consequently it is well to [<
do everything possible to remove the slur |?
thrown over actors by persons worse than |)
themselves, and to take vigorous steps to js
raise the status of the theatrical profession. K
The multiplication of small theatres should <
be encouraged; some of the larger ones are |)
merely gigantic rent-grinding machines, in Is
which, practically speaking, all the receipts k
are swallowed up by landlords and lawyers, P
so that those who do the work can scarcely j>
live; better acting and better scenery would K
be forthcoming were the profits of industry k
received only by the industrious.
Actors and actresses have finer organisms |>
than the average of mankind, which itself is is
absolute proof of the ennobling character of k
the profession; it has been said that “ the P
ideal actor should have the soul of a saint ]>
united to the body of an athlete.”
Mb. and Mbs. William Tebb are now in Munich, at k
the Hotel des Quatres Saisons. jS
T U A L I S T. Mat 28, 1880
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AMONG THE
CHINESE
BY E. T. WAKEFIELD.
The following are extracts from “ Four¬
teen Months in Canton,” by Mrs. Gray, widow
of the late Archdeacon Gray, for many years
Missionary in China :—
AUTOMATIC WBITING.
“We went one morning in our sampan to
the temple of Loi-Sun-Yaong, where devotees
resort to receive from Loi-Sun-Yaong com¬
munications through the medium of Spirit¬
ualistic writing.
“ A votary was waiting at the temple for
the return of the priests. We were supplied
With tea, but before we had time to drink it
a monk came i$ to say that the devotee was
impatient to ask the gods for some infor¬
mation he much required. We therefore
went at once to the shrine, and saw the monk
and the petitioner kneeling before the altar,
both seemed very earnest in their suppli¬
cations. Three minutes perhaps were occupied
by these prayers, then both men rose from
their knees.
“ Our attention now became absorbed in
another monk, who had before him on a
table a large wooden board covered with
sand. He was standing by the altar. A
second monk was by his side with pen and
paper, to write down the message supposed
to be delivered by the god whose image
stood on the altar. A third monk joined the
other two, whose duty we learned was to
explain the message when written. As a
Spiritualistic language is the medium em¬
ployed, it requires to be translated. This
language is supposed not to be understood
by the other two assistants at this strange
ceremony. The chief performer now took
his instrument which was a piece of stick
about a foot in length into his hand, or
rather he balanced it on his two forefingers.
It resembles a long penhandle, and is made
of white wood. From the centre below
projects a small piece of wood which writes
on the sanded board. It altogether reminded
me of the planchettes, so much in fashion a
few years ago in England. In a few moments
the Wooden instrument began to move, as
was supposed without the help of the monk
who held it. It moved up and down the
board tracing large characters on it; and
when the board was marked all over, that
part of the message was transcribed on paper
by the monk, the sand was shaken, and the
board placed again on the table ready for the
255
May 28, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
continuation of the writing; this happened
three times, the petitioner looking on all the
while with rapt attention. The fourth time
the lightly balanced wooden instrument re¬
fused to move, and the monk said the god
had retired. When the writing was translated
by the third monk, it was found to be a
message for the foreigners, and not a word
was addressed to the poor devotee. The
paper was handed to us, and was translated
as follows ‘ The god is very much pleased
that the foreigners are present, he holds com¬
munication with their god, and he knows
that they have come to China on a good
errand.’ The petitioner then made a second
attempt to obtain an answer from the god.
He came to the front of the altar, chin-
chinned to the idol, and said a few words very
earnestly. For some time the wooden instru¬
ment remained inactive ; then it moved, but
only to write a few characters, the message
ran thus :— ‘ The god cannot speak to you to¬
day, he wishes you to come another day.’
The man to our surprise seemed quite
satisfied.” “Is it,” Mrs.
Gray thereupon observes, “ not wonderful to
find that the practice of Spiritualism, Mes¬
merism, calling up the spirits of the de¬
parted, etc., which at present is exciting so
much attention in Europe and America,
should have been practised in China for
many centuries past ?”
TABLE MOVING.
I append another extract from Mrs. Gray’s
book:—
“ He requested that a large round table
should be brought from the servants’ room,
and this was then placed feet upwards. Four
of our servants were now called in and each
was told to place one of his hands on a foot of
the table.
“ The performer then began to walk round
and round the table, first with slow and
measured step, lighted joss sticks in his hands,
and his lips employed in using words of in¬
cantation. After a few minutes’ delay, the
table began to turn slowly, but on the per¬
former quickening his step it increased its
speed until both table and performer were
running round and round. The incantation
was continned the whole time in an under¬
tone.
“ It was a strange sight, and one not to be
accounted for. There was no connection of
hands on the part of the four servants. One
of the latter turned literally green from
fright as the table whirled round and round.
|f When the performer, out of breath, stood still,
cj the table also rested from its labours.
| “We asked him how he accomplished the
i\ feat. In a subdued voice he answered : ‘It is
si Joss that does it, I pray to him.’
“ He wished much to shew how he could
)| call up the spirits of the departed and make
si them answer him. This table turning, clair-
<| voyance, spirit communion, &c., have been
practised in China for many centuries past.”
Upon both these extracts I would observe
sj that any one conversant with spiritual phe-
<1 nomena will entertain little doubt as to their
| being narratives of genuine phenomena, and
;! not clever counterfeits. As most of your
s| readers are familiar with such manifestations^
<1 I need not examine them with this view.
As to the first narrative, the observation
sj occurs that the term “ God ” applied by
<i Mrs. Gray to the communicating intelligence
?! is, I presume, a purely arbitrary expression,
;j and probably had no equivalent in Chinese,
j Assuming this to be so, the answer given by
o the intelligence combined with the reticence
?! in the presence of the Christian missionary
| and his wife, is full of significance, and de-
monstrates a fact that so often confronts
<| spiritual enquirers, viz., how well informed
?j these spiritual intelligences are as to all
?! matters appertaining to moral progress in
s; this world.
See a like instance of this in Mark i. 24,
| Luke iv. 34. The query suggests itself—
i have these phenomena been long known to
si the Chinese ? If so, there would be abundant
a record of them in their literature. But I do
| not think there is, and I therefore do not
| believe these phenomena have been long
s| known to them.
Of course isolated instances may have oc-
| curred from the earliest times, but if their
?! manifestation has only become prevalent of
?! late in China as they have with us, and in
?! America and elsewhere, it is a highly interest-
>! ing and significant fact.
In the second extract, it is to be observed
?! that the word “Joss” is used, and not
?| “ God.” I am not versed in the Chinese
?| language, and therefore cannot say what the
| exact English equivalent is. But I do not
?! believe it to be “ the supreme God,” as we
?! understand that term, nor is the word “ Joss ”
;! so translated by the missionaries in render-
si ing our religious books into Chinese. How-
?! ever, be that as it may, it would be unfair to
?! draw any strict conclusion as to the precise
51 meaning a Chinese attaches to the term in
256 THE S PIE
conversing in “ Jngeon ” English with. Mrs. i
Gray, who had confessedly no knowledge of |
the Chinese language.
Of all the many unaccountable character- !
istics of these phenomena to my mind, the
most so are their recent prevalence, and their
universality.
What is the operating cause to account for
this? What is the final purpose? Who
can tell ? Is it another illustration of Holy
Writ ? John iii. 8.
Harrow-on-the-Hill, May 19th, 1880.
 4, 
SPIRIT DRAWINGS.
Appended is an account of phenomena
taking place at Le Mans, in France, very
similar to those which occur under the
mediumship of M. Duguid, at Glasgow. I
translate it from the Revue Beige des Sciences
PsychologiqueS) of April, 1880 :—
“ Spiritualist Group, Henri Lebreion, of
Mans. Seance of January 8/^, 1880.”
“The spirit Joel, the guide of the group,
presented himself and said : ‘ may peace and
calmness he in your hearts.’ . Our drawing
spirit, Almin Contreau, then came and said :
‘ Be quick, I have much work to do tonight.’
We proposed the things necessary for his
particular use; the light was extinguished,
and the materialisation immediately began.
Lights flashed about the room in ievery
direction; raps were struck oil the wall, on
the pictures, on the ceiling, and on the floor,
and that simultaneously. The spirit took a
sheet of paper entirely yellow in colour; he
asked for a pen-knife that we had forgotten,
and left down stairs. The spirit’s brother,
who was present at this seance, offered him
his knife; the spirit came to take itj and
began cutting the paper, dividing it into
many little pieces, stopping at times to shake
our hands and to tap our heads and
shoulders; he likewise rolled up a sheet of
drawing paper, passed his hands into it, and
brought his hands out again surrounded by a
swarm of lights {fourmillement) impossible to
describe. This roll which was carried about
in every direction, lit up our faces like a
ray of the sun. He took back his papers,
made us touch them, and told us that he. was
going to recompense those who had been
regular at the seances during the hard frosts.
He went then, to fetch what he wanted at a
second table, and set to work. A constant
light, though it was always moving about,
enabled us to make out what the spirit was
working at. Some strokes with the pencil
T UAL 1ST. May 28, 1880.
and the crayon stump, two or three minutes
of work and me spirit gave us baqk one pf
his little leaves, making a tap with his pencil-
case tb show that the drawing ;\vas finished.
Other spirits were present, rapping on the
walls, moving the vases on the chimney
piece, rummaging among the pencils and
crayons, moving round the artist, and bring¬
ing him things necessary for his use,, Six
different times, he turned to his work;, always
giving a tap when he had finished .a drawing.
He gave the pen-knife back to his brother,
putting it between his fingers well shut up,
and struck a rap tp wish us good night,, a rap
for each pf us.( His work was frequently
stayed to lay hold of our hands, and to. raise
them up very high, making us touch his
hands as well as his arms from the fingers to
the shoulders. His hand is long and thin,
although strong, the nails are yery well
! formed, the flesh is warm and slightly
| humid, the hair on the head and arm is felt
| when touched.
A light being struck, twelve pieces of
! paper were found of the size that would go
! into an envelope of the larger ordinary
I dimensions; on six of these pieces of paper
| were charming little drawings, with the
| names of those persons for whom they were
| intended, and the initials of the painter
j (A. 0.) inscribed on them. The six drawings
| were finished in twenty-five minutes; a
I person in the flesh could not have done more
j than one in that time. The spirit calls these
j little drawings his cartes de pisite, and promises
I that none of us shall be forgotten. We have
II a flower, a bird, a butterfly, a dragonfly, two
j little winged angels whispering to each other,
j and a black panther destined for our corre-
I spondent, and brother, M. de Nichicbievich,
| of Mansourah, Egypt. We are expecting
i new phenomena, our friend of the other side
| of life having declared that these little essays
| were done chiefly to get his hand into work-
! ing order.
“Almin Contreau was a painter, he has
| been dead thirtyrsix years.
u Le Mans, February oth, 1880, signed by
; the following:—
“ Cornilleau, Madame Eunestine Lebreton,
> | Francois Froger, Madame Goutard, Niepceron
!| Madame Niepceron, F. Blavette, E. Contreau,
Jl (brother of the spirit), Henri Lebreton.”
In this case, unlike that of M. Duguid,
>1 a spirit appears to do the work. Who the
Sj especial medium is we are hot told, it is not
; | necessarily M. E. Cohtreau, the brother of
May 28, 1880, THE S PIE
tiie spirit, fop he is spoken of as casually at
that particular seance. : M. Henri Lehreton
is presumably the president of the group.”
Scrutator.
DEEAMS. ' j j)
The appearance of a yery interesting and |>
ably written article under this heading in I
Temple Bar for March, has induced me to j
think that the following lines on the same sub- R
ject may not he uninteresting to your readers, R
as I am able to give undeniable proof of the j)
accuracy of the narrative which forms the K
sequel.
While living in the Crimea, at a period of |>
no small anxiety, and after a day of more than jS
ordinary occupation, I retired to rest, and soon R
fell into a sound sleep, and u perchance a R
dream.” I would premise that ever since the [;
death of my venerable mother, a photograph of jS
her tomb has always hung near my bed. K
While sleeping, I was ushered into an apart- \\
ment, through which I entered a second, both |
rooms dimly lighted by what appeared; almost $
a phosphoric light. In the second chamber I
lay a corpse in an uncovered coffin. I looked j?
at it and exclaimed “ Good God ! it seems j;
like my wife” (who had gone to France for R
the benefit of her impaired health); on looking <
close, I saw that it was not her, and could not R
recognise the countenance. I awoke about |)
midnight, January 11th, Feeling very much |>
agitated by my dream, I got up, dressed my- |]
self, and as I had not written for some time to R
a very dear and only surviving brother, I sat !>
down to my desk to write to him;, and, as I IS
had remarked, while dressing, that the photo- K
graph of my mother’s grave had suffered so I?
much from the damp wall as to render the |;
inscription illegible, I mentioned the circum- is
stance in a postscript to my brother, without K
making any reference to my dream, hut simply R
asking him if he happened to have one to R
spare, to send it to me when next he wrote. A
The following is a literal copy of his two j<
letters, the first announcing the death of my R
sister on Wednesday, the 11th, of whose ailing R
I was not aware, the second replying to my R
letter, written on the commencement of the K
12th:— |
“London, January 12, 1878. jS
i “ I duly received your letter of 15 December,.... and |)
have now sad news to announce to you about poor ! \
M. J., who has been ailing some time, and is now no R
more. She passed away to a happier world on Wednes- j c
day evening last, whilst in a sleep apparently,.. .She n
will.be placed, I hope, in our mother’s tomb on Tuesday j \
or Wednesday at latest,” K
T TJ A L I S T. 257
“London, January 27, IStS.
“ Your letter of the 12th has reached me. How little
you could have thought on that very day our poor dear
afflicted sister, .was placed in our mother’s tomb at
Kensal Green.”
Query, may it not have been that my dis¬
embodied spirit was permitted to pass over
space between the Crimea and London, and to
take a last fond look upon her who had been
from infancy the devotedly attached and
affectionate sister of the Wanderer.
{From u Notes and Queries” May 15.J
 —♦ 
FLOEAL MANIFESTATIONS.
The Sunday Herald, of Boston^ STass.J pub¬
lishes the following letter
“ Allow me a small space in your liberal
paper to describe a wonderful manifestation of
spirit-power, demonstrated through the me-
diumship of Mrs. Thayer, at my house, oh the
evenings of March 10th and 11th, 1880.(([The
medium, at her own request, was placed under
the strictest test conditions^ after the coinpany
had assembled. She was taken to a room oveT
the parlour by my wife, and every article, of
clothing removed from her person and tho¬
roughly examined; after which my wife, ac¬
companied her to the dining-room in which
the seance was held. This room was carefully
examined by all present.; The doors aha
windows were securely fastened, so that
neither ingress nor egress was possible. The
party then took their seats around a long
table, and joined hands. Those of the medium
were held by the gentlemen on either side of
her; the light was extinguished, and in about
ten minutes a gentle fluttering was heard, when
on striking a light, a beautiful canary was
nestling on the breast of a gentleman present.
The second night the medium was subjected to
the same test conditions; the same party was
present and arranged as on the previous even¬
ing, and the result was a liberal supply of the
most beautiful flowers spreading over the
table and in the laps of the company. The
flowers were in great variety, hut the most
remarkable was a stand of smila± about six
feet long, dripping with water; lying in the
centre of the table in the form of the letter B,
and woven together in the most Artistic man¬
ner. The company was composed of fifteen
persons, all well known in this city, who kre
willing to testify that the manifestations were
genuine, and that fraud or deception was Im¬
possible.—Yours for truth and justice,;
“ M. McBwen.
“ 451 M Street, Washington, D. 0.”
258
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 28, 1880.
The Banner of Light (Boston, May 1st,)
says:—
A correspondent (A. P. N.) writing from
Pittsburgh, Pa., sends us the following account
of a seance in that city, at which writing upon
a covered slate was given with a new feature
attending it. He says: “ While so much is
spoken of slate-writing mediums, suffer me to
relate what occurred here at a seance held on
Friday evening, March 26th, in the presence
of the medium, Mrs. Sarah Patterson, of 83,
Franklin Street. There were eleven persons
present, including the medium. A bit of
pencil, about the size of two grains of wheat,
was enclosed between a double slate. The
gas burning above the table being turned
partially down, the medium held the slate
under the table for one or two minutes.
At the sound of three raps it was lifted, when
the pencil point was found lying on the top of
the slate, as is always the case with this
medium when a message is completed. The
slate, on being opened, showed a message ad¬
dressed to a member of the circle present, pur¬
porting to be from a spirit friend: and lying
directly on the writing was a beautiful rose,
as fragrant as if just plucked off its original
stem. This was repeated until eight persons
sitting around the table had each received an
appropriate message and a flower over it. The
flowers varied in kind, but were all fresh and
blooming, and filled the room with fragrance.
The light was sufficient to show every object
in the room, and deception on the part of the
medium is not admissible under the circum¬
stances. After this performance a material¬
ising stance followed, in which several spirit
forms came out from the door of the cabinet.”
CURIOUS POWERS OF DOGS AND CRABS.*
BY THE HON. PERCY "WYNDHAM, M.P.
By the exercise of what power do animals
find their way back to distant places from
which they have been removed ? It has been
surmised that man may have once possessed
this power, but that he has lost it in the process
of evolution. The suggestion, whether true or
not, throws no light whatever on the matter.
FT o explanation worthy of thenamehas ever been
attempted, and we must confess that in our
present state of knowledge we are unable to
conceive or realize the power they possess.
One thing only is tolerably certain—the know¬
ledge of topography necessary to them to find
*A portion of a presidential address delivered recently before the
Cumberland Association for the Advancement of Literature and
Science.
Hj their way is not conveyed to them through the
K| ordinary channels of the senses. Of this
j?j power in animals there are two remarkable
j>j instances in my own knowledge. During the
|S| mastership of Mr. William Hartley, the late
Kj Lord Leconfield sent two foxhounds from
m Petworth to the Cumberland kennels. They
j>j went by rail from Petworth to London, were
!> led across London, and again by rail from
Rj Euston Square to Dalston station. They re-
Kj mained for a month at the kennels here, going
j;j out with the hounds, when one day they
jsj simultaneously disappeared. Some days after,
K I do not remember how long, when the hunts-
1 j man at Petworth opened the kennel door in the
j>j early morning, the first thing that greeted him
iv. was one of the hounds, who laid his paws on
Kj his shoulders. His companion never was
| jj heard of again. It is worthy of the remark
>! that the hound that reached home had more
hi character than the other: He was an excellent
K hound, but was draughted for skirting and
j?j running cunning. In another case a badger
hj was kept for four years in a loose box attached
jsj to a stable. He made his escape, and two days
Kj after he was dug out of a hole from which he
j?j had originally been taken. This badger must
i)j have re-crossed a river to regain his home,
jsj which river he had crossed four years before in
Kj the bottom of a sack. He had been placed in
|d a sack on capture, and not enlarged until he
hj reached the place of his confinement. Here is
jsj another instance, not within my own know-
jq ledge, still lower down in the scale of creation.
Id At Falmouth the crabs caught at the Lizard,
I some twelve miles distant, were taken to the
|s harbour, branded with the mark of the fisher-
|< man, and placed in a box alive to await sale,
id The box was stove in and the crabs escaped,
h! Three days afterward many of them were again
js captured at the Lizard. To reach this they
R must have found their way to the mouth of the
?! harbour, and, having arrived there, learned by
> some strange perceptive power in which
<| direction their home lay, for it was far out of
?| any possible range of vision, and they had been
9\ carried to their prison in a boat. It is sug-
'! gested that this is made possible by the
< possession of another sense of which we know
K nothing. It is, however, opposed to general
!?j experience that living organisms of a higher
j ! type should possess a particular sense without
is the association of a material organ. But per-
j<| haps it is meant that this sense is without any
Id material organ j if so it only shows us what a
j little way our kno wledge of the use of material
j organs takes us in accounting for incidents like
Mat 28, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
259
those I have quoted. In the case of two of bj
them I vouch for the truth, but they are only two | s |
among hundreds equally well authenticated.
A MYSTERY AT THE ROYAL AQUARIUM.
Last Friday night, among the entertain- Kj
ments at the Royal Aquarium, Westminster, Kj
was one entitled “ Dexteria the Marvellous.” j?|
A slight platform which everybody could see |>i
beneath—and not merely imagine they could hj
see beneath because of the interposition of Rj
planes of glass—was placed upon the stage, |?|
to form the floor of a cabinet. The three |>j
walls of the cabinet were formed of green |<j
cloth or baize, and it had no top. A curtain Rj
in front formed, when drawn, the front wall. |;|
A young man introduced what he called m
the “medium,” a girl of apparently about Kj
sixteen years of age, and he invited persons Rj
in the audience who had never seen him |>
in their lives before, to mount the stage to tie m
her up. After waiting for a prolonged period, |<|
one whom we recognised as Captain Abney, Rj
who sometimes reads scientific papers before |>|
the Royal Society, mounted the stage; also K|
two other gentlemen, whom we afterwards k
ascertained to be bona fide investigators.
Captain Abney and one of the other in- |S
quirers tied the hands of the medium together js|
behind her back, with a length of black k!
ribbon, and tied her ankles separately to the ?|
legs of the chair on which she sat; musical >
instruments were placed on the floor of the isl
cabinet.
The investigators having said that they Rj
were satisfied with their tying, the conductor m
announced that the instant he should draw Kj
the curtain in front of the medium, living Rj
hands would protrude from the top of the Rj
cabinet, and the musical instruments would js!
be played upon. This took place as an- Rj
nounced; the medium was only out of sight j?j
a few seconds, and directly afterwards was Rj
found bound as at first.
The conductor asked the committee to place j^j
a glass partly filled with water, il on the soft Rj
part of the medium’s head.” The committee, Rj
under this instruction, gazed dubiously at the s
curly head or wig of the handsome medium ja
before them, until the conductor explained >
that they could make no mistake, as the top of Rj
her head was “ all over alike.” The glass of j<!
water was placed as desired, the 'curtain was Rl
drawn and opened as fast as hands could do it, Rj
and all the water had disappeared from the >
glass which remained on the head.
Next it was required that one of the com- K j
mittee should go into the cabinet with his eyes
blindfolded, “ to find the spirit forms.” In
reply to questions by the manager, he said
that u he had never been mesmerised or bam¬
boozled in his life.” He was there for about
three minutes; the band outside playing mean¬
while, and the instruments inside making a
din. When the curtain was withdrawn, the
inquirer was seen robed from head to foot in a
long nightshirt; he was led from the cabinet
to the footlights, where the bandage was taken
from his eyes, and his expression of countenance
on seeing his costume, drew a roar of laughter
from the auditory. On removing the night¬
shirt, he was found to be wearing his own coat
turned inside out.
The conductor then wished to know whether
after that any sensible person could believe
that the sprits of the dead did such things as
these. He added that he had presented no
imitation of u Spiritualism ” but the real thing
itself, and that what it was he would leave the
observers to judge.
Having placed the solution of the problem
in the hands of such a competent tribunal, the
conductor and medium gracefully departed,
and the entertainment, which was of fifteen
minutes duration altogether, came to a close.
Among the acrobats in a later stage of
the performances, were two who bore a strong
resemblance to those who gave this cabinet
entertainment.
SCOTT’S LETTER ON THE DEATH OF QEORGE
BULLOCK.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “LETTERS
TO MISS_MARTINEAU.”
How many a happy though, indolent hour
Do we pass o’er the pages of Scott,
Till we seem to live in the days of old,
And the present is all forgot.
W. H. Harrison, “ Lazy Lays.”
I must at once correct the error about
Scott’s age when the crash in his fortune
came upon him, and when we have the curious
entry of the trial by acorns, as to whether he
would overcome his losses or not. It was in
the year 1826, when Scott was 55, he having
been born in 1771, and died in 1833. Mr.
Campbell seems to be one of those writers
who persist in a statement after correction.
Scott’s acquaintance with Terry took place
through the Ballantynes when Terry was an
actor in Henry Siddons’ company at Edin¬
burgh, and Lockhart refers to the comedian’s
imitations of Scott, even to the handwriting.
Lockhart says : “ these things afforded Scott
and all their mutual acquaintances much
260
diyersion, but perhaps no r stoic; could baye
belped being secretly. gratified Jby iseeing . a
cleyer and sensible man convert biniself into
a living type and symbol of aflmirajtion. IN o
doubt Terry bad literary taste, though be
was not a literary man, “ and be rivalled
Scott’s own enthusiasm for the antiquities of
vertu.”. f
Hence, then, the friendship and, corres¬
pondence ; but Scott lost nearly <£2,000, a
loan to Terry on bis taking the Adel phi
Theatre. Exit “ the ingenious comedian, Mr.
Daniel Terry,” and enter George Bullock,
ghost or no ghost, who was not a workman
making or taking “ ugly casts for Scott’s
dining room,” but the. famous London up¬
holsterer, renowned for his artistic taste, and
always employed by, ihy father, the architect
and friend of Scotty a friendship attested
by some seventy letters from Scott, and a
folio of Scott’s own sketchings of ancient
forms of architectural ornamentations; the
letters and sketches are all still in my pos¬
session.
The only reference I find as to the dining
room ceiling at Abbotsford, is in a letter
to Terry saying : ‘‘Mr. Atkinson has kept
tryste charmingly, ~ and the ceiling of the
dining room will be superb. I have got I
know not how many casts from Melrose and
other places of pure Gothic antiquity,”
Bullock having no hand or concern m the
matter.
The strong impfession made oh Scott by his
friend Bullock’s death need? no belief in
the ghost to explain. Here is his beautiful
letter to Terry on the occasion, which may
well excuse my mentioning George Bullock
in god-fatherly connection with myself, and
of whom a splendid service of plate is a per¬
petual reminder, and as exhibiting the friend¬
ship that existed between Bullock and my
parents. ,,
The letter referred to is this:
“ Abbotsford,
May 4tfi, 1818.
“To D. Terry, Esq., London,  i
“ Dear Terry,—I received, with the great¬
est surprise and the most sincere distress, the
news of poor George Bullock’s death. Jn the
full career of honourable industry,-—distin¬
guished by his uncommon taste and talent,—
esteemed by all who transacted business with
him, and loved by those who had the pleasure
of his more intimate acquaintance, I can scarce
conceive a more melancholy summons. It
May 28, 1880,
Jj copies as a particular shock to me, becausp 1
?! had, particularly of late, so much associated
;| his idea with the imjprovements here, in
s| which his kind and enthusiastic temper led
(j him,to take spch interest; and in looking at
?! every, unfinished or projected circumstaqcp,
yi I feel an. impression of melancholy which
(\ will for some time take, away the pleasure, I
?] haye found m them. f liked George Bul-
?! lock because he had no trumpery selfishness
j about his, heart, taste or feelings. Pray Lt
s! me know about the circumstances of his
(j family, &c., I feel most sincerely interested
j in all that concerns him. i It must have been
>| a dreadful, surprise to Mr. Atkinson, and
>| you who lived with him so much. I need
j t not, I am sure, beg you to be in no hurry
1 about my things... The confusion must be
>j very great, without any friend adding to it;
Jj and in fact, at this moment, l am very indif-
|| ferent pn the subject. The poor kind fellow 1
>| He took so much notice of little Charles,, and
i was so domesticated with us all, that I really
!j looked with a schoolboy’s anxiety for his
I being here in the season, to take bis own
i quiet pleasures, and to promote mine,. But
| God’s will be done; all that surviving friends
j can do upon such a loss is, if possible, to love
I each other ^till better. I beg to be kindly
I remembered to Mrs. Terry and Monsieur
j Walter [his godson.]
“ Ever most truly yours,
“Waltee Scott.”
Here then in this beautiful letter we have
| all the reason for the deep , feeling observed
j at the time. But it was in the power of the
I manjover himself to shake it off,, or be diverted
I in the line of thought, as in the case after
j his wife’s death :—
“ I again took possession of the family bed-
| room, and my widowed couch. This was a
I sore trial, but it was necessary not to blink
1 such a resolution. Indeed, I do not like to
I have it thought that there is any way in
j which I can be beaten.”
i It seems that in the deep feeling and
! affectionate regard of Scott for Bullock, and
| reciprocated, no doubt, we have the elements
j of a sympathy that might account for at least
| an influence, from the dying man to his
I distant friend, and also, considering the
| mutual interests in the surroundings, as Scott
| himself gives it. Again, as rpspects the dfs-
I turbance, Scott could hardly possibly garble
THE SPIRITUALIST
261
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May.* 28, 1880
th.e account. The supposition of Mrs. Scott,
Bullock’s position now given makes absurd,
and the written account do my father was
precisely the same as that to Terry.. X expect
that Mr. Morrison was one of those pretenders
in respect to a friendship with the great,
which we know to be so common ; hut sup¬
posing him to have been honest, it is clear
that he was mistaken. Whether this Mr.
Morrison afterwards became, intimate more
or less with Scott is a matter, pi no, cpnr
sequence; his name is not in the Life, and I
have no further interest in him or in his
story, but remain satisfied that no one was
better able to give such an account clearly, or
less likely to give it incorrectly, than Sir
Walter Scott.
Boulogne- Sur-Mer.
 £—+ 
SPIRIT .INFLUENCE UPON NORMAL
INDIVIDUALS.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
The above important subject was well
ventilated in your recent article under the aboye
heading, and it is at present, as for a long
period previously, the chief theme of my re¬
flections. From time to time, it behoves us,
in midst of the bewildering new panorama
presented by modern Spiritualism after quitting
the old standpoint, to put great philosophical
speculations aside, and inquire what is under
our feet, or what influence spiritual fprces have
upon our particular course in the boundless
maze of being—for boundless it seems now to all
Spiritualists, who have been “ let outof the
narrow boundaries (like mice out of a .mouse-
trap) of ordinary earth-life views. My ex¬
ceptionally rich store—rich in quantity as well
as in quality arid variety—of experimental ex¬
perience, has long made me conscious that the
spirit-world is in every direction; that its in¬
fluences are constantly gushing and surround¬
ing us at all times and places, supporting us in
or interfering with our doings and designs.
Hence I look on stances as a localisation only
of the ever-existing and present power; and
that at stances w® do not “draw” this force o,ut
by boring a hole, as it were, but rather by the
isolating function of a “ circle ” protecting
ourselves from intruding surroundings. Con¬
sequently seances are nothing but intensified
areas of spirit-activity, and a keen eye, after
the study of the localised phenomena, will dis¬
cover plenty of unsuspected manifestatione in
daily life belonging tp the same realm. It is,
therefore, a correct conclusion in the truthful
article I now dwell upon, that impressions
|] leading to “ surprises ” in seances, may originate
|| beyond the margin of the local arrangement.
<| We should examine more; closely those stray
>| incidents and influences; of daily life which we
I once treated simply with a shake of the head.
h “How came this, idea into my head?” we
/I sometimes say,, on receiving a mental touch
)| analogous to . that which; a wave would ex-
sj perience if able to think about the swift dip of
(| a sea-gull. These slight meddlings by playful
I] or malicious spirits grow serious when they can
| be traced in courts of justice, where criminals
are sentenced, may be to death, while, quietly
y denying their responsibility, and exhibiting
j| total absence of repentance in the midst of
>j positive evidence against them. The actions
)! of some creatures of impulse suggest that the,
[| real culprit is still outside the walls. The plea
>| of || extenuating circumstances ” in certain cases
>] is already a grand step towards true civilisation,
If in contrast with the barbaric “ tooth for tooth ”
\i or “ life for life ” doctrine.
A MEDIAL RAJAH.
The. Bajah. of Mundi is a devout prince,
| eager to fulfil the recorded law of Krishna,
If and even to meet any fresh enactment half way.
|| When a person of wealth shows this dispQsi-
»| tion,. the gods suddenly display quite a per¬
il sonal interest in him, hovering about his
II premises, and making themselves t visible for
11 the purpose of suggesting this or that ihnova-
j tion. For many years the Kajah has been in
ij the habit of receiving messages and warnings
l| from one hand or another. It was dis-
| appointing to find, as time went on, that
i Krishna would not communicate direct, but
| tlie Mundi Sovereign is as modest as pious,
11 and he concluded that the divinity had his own
i good reasons. It was very well known, how-
>j ever, that his Majesty felt hurt. To be
11 master of a palace haunted by beneficent and
11 beautiful creatures, who have established rela-
i fions of familiarity with the inmates, is joy;
I hiit to be cut, personally, in a manner so very
I marked, is bitter. Some weeks ago, loyal
I courtiers decided that this should no longer
| be, that the Kajah should be introduced, to
| Krishna. They sought out a carpenter,
| Hashnak by name, whose piety was renowned
I throughout the country. Several times al-
j ready had the gods made their will known
I through .this faithful devotee, and he might
Ij properly be supposed to stand on as good terms
| with Krishna as any one. jlCcqrdingly^ aftci
| 4 decorous. pause, Hashnak unde: t )ok the
j office, and the joyful courtiers hastened to in-
262
THE S PI E
form their master that all would henceforth be
bliss unalloyed. The Kajah said he was
pleased, but thoughtfully inquired what ex¬
penditure would be needful. With noble
frankness it was admitted that‘the cost of this
great honour would be enormous. A temple
of splendour, unsurpassed, must be raised
exactly in the centre of his capital, and there
were other charges beside. We cannot bar¬
gain with Divine visitants, and the foundations
were laid at once. But the court of Mundi is
not destitute of one honest man. This estim¬
able person waited on the Rajah, told him that
he had been cheated for years past, that Krishna
had not descended to earth, nor meant to
do so, until it became a much more virtuous
place of residence. His Majesty did not order
to execution his intrepid friend; much more
wisely he rose up and followed him to the
temple now half finished. There they found
a hole in the floor, with steps beneath, and a
screen above, of which the architect could not
explain the purpose, nor Hashnak either. All
the conspirators were arrested on the spot, and
they are now lying in gaol. The Rajah has
announced that he does not look for¬
ward to meeting Krishna on this side the
grave, but he insists on knowing how Hashnak
proposed to work his oracle. When that se¬
cret is confessed the prisoners will be exiled,
for their monarch is renowned for clemency.—
Evening Standard, May 24th.
 —♦ 
MRS. WELDON.
Mrs. Georgina Weldon, who was convicted of a libel
upon M. Riviere, the conductor of the Covent-garden
Concerts, at a recent sessions of the Central Criminal
Court, appeared on Monday last in discharge of her
bail to receive judgment. .
Mr. Montagu Williams, who appeared for the prose¬
cution, asked the Court to pass sentence on the Defendant.
He at the same time said that when she was discharged
upon bail there was an understanding of some kind that
the offence should not be repeated, but he was sorry to
say that that promise had been broken, and Mrs.
Weldon had, during the interval, made several other
most offensive charges against M. Riviere.
Mrs. Weldon said that before judgment was passed
she should wish to read an affidavit that she had pre¬
pared in mitigation of punishment. She accordingly
read a long statement referring to the disputes that had
arisen between her and M. Riviere, and said that she
considered the alleged libel was a private letter and a
privileged communication, and that, therefore, she was
not legally convicted. She also stated that she had
been entirely ruined by the legal proceedings that had
been instituted against her, and had been compelled
to sell her house and furniture. She also complained
that all her witnesses had not been examined at the
trial, and said that she believed that if all these wit¬
nesses, fifty in number, had been called in her behalf,
the Jury would never have convicted her. Mrs. Weldon
likewise stated that in the recent action she had brought
ITUALIST* May 28, 1880.
against M. Riviere, she expected to have obtained
5000Z. damages, and she should then have been in a
position to have obtained the assistance of counsel to
represent her on the present occasion,, and lay her case
properly before the Court.
The Recorder, in passing sentence, said he had
listened to all the facts stated in the Defendant’s affi¬
davit, and he could not find anything that would justify
him in postponing sentence. The Jury had all the
facts before them, and they had found that the libel
was not a privileged communication, and the facts
appeared to be that in consequence of some slight dis¬
pute and quarrel—
Mrs. Weldon.—There was no quarrel. My mouth is
shut, but I cannot hear your Lordship state what is not
true.
The Recorder proceeded—It appeared, at all events,
that in consequence of some slight provocation she had
gone to great expense to make inquiries about M. Riviere
and had raked up his whole life, and then made very
serious charges against him. Under these circum¬
stances, he quite agreed in the opinion of the Jury, who
had convicted her of libel, and the sentence he should
pass upon her was that she should be imprisoned for
four months.
Mrs. Weldon was then taken into the gaol of
Newgate.
 ♦ 
SPIRITUALISM IN HACKNEY.
For about twelve years Mr. C. R. Williams
has kept Spiritualism and cognate subjects
alive in Hackney, and he estimates that last
year about six hundred inquirers applied to
him for information. "
Last Monday night, at a meeting called by
him at 6, Field View, London Fields, he ad¬
dressed those present on the subject of mes¬
merism. He said that some years ago he went
to a lecture at the Manor Rooms, Hackney,
delivered by Mr. Reynolds, who brought no
sensitives of his own to the meeting with him,
and the only person present Mr. Reynolds had
much influence over was himself (Mr. Williams).
Although the mesmerist had great control over
him, he did not quite lose Ins individuality;
for instance, when he made him tell the ob¬
servers that his name was u Mary,” he strug¬
gled against the order, and knew all the time
that Ins name was “ Charlesyet the word
u Mary ” came from his lips against his will.
Mr. Reynolds disturbed his vision so that he
could not tell his own friends among those
present; the faces before him seemed to
merge into each other in waves. The more
Mr. Reynolds tried to make him laugh, the
more serious he felt; yet he was obliged to
laugh. Afterwards he tried mesmeric experi¬
ments himself in the shop in which he worked.
He gave a boy a disc to look at, and when
the master of the establishment entered, the
boy was in a comatose state. The master
I wanted to know what was the matter with the
■ boy, who had to be brought to in the orthodox
263
Mat 28, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
way, by slapping on the shoulder and singing
out “ Right! ” He thought that mesmerism
did not bear out phrenology, but that the sen¬
sitives unconsciously acted under the influence
of suggestion; they gradually learnt where the
organs were supposed to be, and gave answers
accordingly, but not intentionally. He be¬
lieved that if a mesmerist and sensitive knew
nothing about the supposed position of the
various organs, the usual results of a phreno-
mesmerism ” would not be obtained on touch¬
ing the u bumps.’’ When a strange mesmerist
obtained the results, the sensitive had been
acted upon before. Impulses of a mesmeric
nature acted strongly upon him at times.
When near rivers he sometimes felt an impulse
to spring into them, and he knew a man who
always stood at the back of railway platforms
because of the impulse to throw himself be¬
neath passing trains. An evangelical preacher
once told him that he had to exercise the full
power of his will, to resist throwing himself
from one of the water towers of the Crystal
Palace. A young man he knew often had a
strong impulse to hang himself, and once did
so until he was half dead. He had noticed
that persons whose hands perspired freely,
were the best mesmeric sensitives; he did not
make a mistake perhaps, in more than one out
of six, in discovering sensitives in a mixed
company. When he mesmerised individuals,
he was not exhausted by the act unless the
persons did not come easily under his control.
He did not like to try such experiments with
sensitives as making their bodies rigid while
stretched from chair to chair, and then stand¬
ing on them; they felt it next day if not at
the time, and a reaction set in.
AN ALLEGED ACROBAT.
An English “ Spiritist,” who gives himself
the name of Eglinton, has been carrying on a
fine business in the Bavarian capital. His
proceedings are very differently described,
however, in two German journals which have
come to our hands—Mehr Licht, the organ of
German Spiritualism, and the Suddeutsche
Presse^ a Munich paper which has sent a re¬
porter to Mr. Eglinton’s meetings. The
Spiritualists of Munich, it seems, applied to
the believers of England for a good medium,
and received Mr. Eglinton as the result of
their application. Herr Gabriel Max gives a
glowing account in the Mehr Licht of the
marvels wrought by our highly-organised
countryman. He was tied up at one end of a
i)j room, darkened of course, and a piano was
! | placed at the other end; nevertheless, the
K| medium managed to reach the keys, and played
|jl most excellent music, although Herr Max as-
m serts, and evidently believes, that Mr. Eglinton
| ! never touched the distant instrument. An
Is | invisible being, however, was heard to take
k| his seat upon the music-stool. Mr. Eglinton
Pj than floated about the room between the heads
| | of the spectators, if we may so call them, and
m the ceiling, and played all the usual tricks
k| with guitars, tables, invisible hands, and the
|) j like. The Suddeutsche Presse was not cured of
K| its scepticism by these u proofs,” but set itself
jtl to inquire into the past biography of the me-
K| dium, and was so fortunate as to get on a very
|>j certain track. Mr. Eglinton turns out to be
11 a very clever acrobat by trade,* who has found
| s| out that a far larger sum may be earned by
IJj performing his feats to a select circle of enthu-
m siasts in a darkened room than in a circus
m crowded with the vulgar under the glare of
| j gas. The “ proofs” oflered by the Munich
jjl paper in contradiction to the “proofs” exhi-
l)| bited by Mr. Eglinton may not have converted
| | the believers from their faith in his marvellous
K| powers; but they have had a telling effect
t|| upon the medium himself, for he left Munich
jjl by the first train he could get, without waiting
| | to be paid his travelling expenses.
Ki   
I | FLOWERS.
(A 'portion of the last poem written ly Alice Cary, the
\ I American Spiritualist')
(j I know not which I love the most,
) | Nor which the comeKest shows,
) | The timid, bashful violet,
) | Or the royal-hearted rose;
) j The pansy, in her purple dress,
) j The pink, with' cheek of red,
s | Or the faint, fair heliotrope, who hangs,
(I Like a bashful maid, her head.
) i For I love and prize you all.
From the least low bloom of spring
To the lily fair, whose clothes outshine
) | The raiment of a king.
And when my soul considers these—
The sweet, the grand, the gay—
I marvel how we shall be clothed
With fairer robes than they;
And almost long to sleep, and rise
And gain the fadeless shore,
And put immortal splendours on,
And live, to die no more.
* There is no truth in this. Ed. of S.
264
THE SPIRI TUALIST.
May 28, 1880.
IC^S^ERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
4NI1|AL ^AGNETIS^L.
Bg the late Wm.'Grhgohy, 1S.D., F.K.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
Uiiiv'ersity. :
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
... the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
2®St psMh&ed, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced'by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing jMesmeric Sleep—‘The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II s—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings, in the Hook a,11*! Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger, of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy With the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV :—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes —
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Betrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V s—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or St ate of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
CousaiousnesB in Mesmerised Persons—transference of Senses and of. Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—/The Impressible State—Control Exercised" by the OperatCr—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience;—Importance of
Perseverance—the Subjept must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental 5 Mesmeric—Trance Pro-
■ ducqd at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—If akeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanatious—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World..
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX s—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical,with the,Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &q., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds. t
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly. Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—-Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI s—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be-Expeoted. • -
CHAPTER XII s—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi- !V.
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments— i)
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen- 5/
tration—Major Buckley’s Method.—Cases—The Mari0 Crystal Induces Waking i S
Lucidity, when Gazed ait—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—^Egyptian j \
Magic. _.w.r t f, irr-
CHAPTER XIH :—Production of the Mesmeric {Bleep—Cases—Eight out of ; (
Nine Persons Recently Tried'by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep— ; /
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the iSleep—Sympathetic- Clairvoyance in the Sleep— I S
Cases—^Perception of Time—Cases s Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of i \
Retrovision.. ®a.tT Bets .. ref J'r •«v'f ' UM i ,+>:or fn hvtj |v
CHAPTER XIV:—^Direct Clairvoyance—Gasps—^Travelling Clairvoyance— i)
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two"Clergymen, with Cases— i/j
Clairvoyance of Alexis—^Other Cases. ,v.- |)l
CHAPTER XV s—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe« jv!
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions. ' ■ •J- - jyj
CHAPTER XVI;—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks if j
and Summary. J . ... j f\
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
• 11 In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
>i civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
)i sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
) i lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
h ways, gas, and Gralileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
(I The Dialectical Society j under the presidency of Sir John
(j Lubbock,' appointed a large committee, which for two years
(j investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
Si professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
S i true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
>| were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
) i presence of mediums without being touched.
?: Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
c i Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the n4w metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
\ j house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Si Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
S i professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
)i Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
)i forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
? j stranger to the family present.
cl • The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
(i science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
(I untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
Si private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
S i by any member of the family. At the present time there are
;i only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
) | phenomena in all Grreat Britain, consequently, if these were all
? j tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
? i he unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
|j the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
j I protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
Si the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
||j which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
) i duped who trust in worthless authorities.
) | One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
? | ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
(i new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
(i tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen' clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do. ■
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of. the table or.sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speakhe should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given- in answer, then say, “ If 11 speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop r thle better class ot
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should, believe no more about them
or the contents of, the messages than "they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results he obtained at the first two seances because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters,
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences. .
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower, their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week : Angular, excitable people, had better avdid the, nervouA
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Mat 28, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
Cloth, small 8to, price 3s, '
OTHER - WORLD ORDER:
Price 3s. 6a. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Postfree.
“ RIFTS IN THE VEIL1.” 1
Suggestions and Conclusions thereoh
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. 'White’s contention, is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for spine
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption'that the . everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished.; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
prrcisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners, j
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
friALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
. in Spiritualism, by Christian Reimers. One
Shilling.
' E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of. some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
EESEARCHES IN THE PHENO¬
MENA OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically-demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
1\yf EDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
IVi. AND VARIETIES'.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper . Branch; Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d; or six-copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Fredictioos of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic, .r/. i . wp.-iso £
.“.Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods;
sad colonial calamities," and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S.- E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIRITUALISTS. 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance td
receive visitors ' and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply-to the Secretary.
Office hours 2. p.m, to 9.30,-daily* • . Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
A _ is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments ' can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3, per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. O.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepihiere*, Paris.
rpHE BANNER OP LIGHT: the
-4- oldest iournaldevoted totheSpiritualPhilosophy
inr the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B,_ Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ;i aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is afirst-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing* literary department,
report of spiritual lecturgs, sorigmal essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, . and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15» per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 83; Museum-street, London. W.y,.
R Collection of choice poems and prise essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists-. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONSENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. Y. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given 'through- the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. :—The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. Y. Tappan-Richmond.
YI.—Angel-Guarded.
YII.—An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Dotenu.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The lAfe of-Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of. Wittgenstein.
xrv.—To You whoLoved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV.—Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XYI.—Truth. Given-through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits, By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted; House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
O. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism, By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter, Blake, Doe. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
■ XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.'
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen),
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism. ..
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. ^By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. 'By, Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLTV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
P. R.G.S.
XLV.'—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crowp. 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of, Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by.the Milan Society for
ttieP^qmorien of Science, Arts'and Letters.:
: The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch--' Office, 38,
Mjjseum-Bjjee,t,vLftnd<mi w.c, e - ’ •«;>••> *
/ebif ’
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song. of the North—VII,
The'Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit?'Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live’’—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words" of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXVi The
Prophecy-of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The; Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
f Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
13 EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
JL|/ psychilogiques,' fondfc' par Allan Kardec, ap-
pbalrs on the 1st of every month. Pride,, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue.Neuve,. .
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OP BELIEF.
jhy John ' S. Farmer)
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing1 Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith. (
Chapter II:—Modern Thought verses Modern Facts
Chapter III:—The- Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV r—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation,
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI :—Inspirati<)n and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
' Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Ch apter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modern Spiritualism,
Will he sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S-W.), Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by Ej Wj Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C. ,
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instmetions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
’ AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist dr Professibhal Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepenoe,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION; AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist saysr—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of. Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them;; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of. those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and thosq who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will,at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true.,. If every Spiritualist, makes it
binding upon himself to •* drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit viroles at home, the whole, nation will be
deluged with useful information, and'siich a number of
mediums.-will spring, up in private ,families, as to
rapidly_in creaso the .knowledge of truths. calculated tc
benefit in the highest -degree this materialistic, ion
seqqentjy irreligious age,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 28, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
'' BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
USE
ENO S FRUIT SALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Du. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“ I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
■world,”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
END’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
FAG-GED, WEARY AND WORN
OUT I!! Any one, whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de I*- gpaix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. iVe is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “Aftersuf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such,
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fall to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each, bottle and tee the capsule it
marlctd “UNO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, TTa.tftlifl.Tn, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical anc
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The'Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song oJ
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der¬
vishes afConstantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejcm Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30, The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book inareview nearly a column long,says;—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The WoVblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglouo Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVEN8CROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings. Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers,- and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
T UNACY LAW REFORM
JLi ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays I to 2.
Louisa Lowe, Hon. Sec.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
33,
Price 6d.; post free Tjd.; cloth.
Prize Essavs.
The probable effects of
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the Fiest and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association oi
SVI RITUALISTS.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
rTHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
-L OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, .F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr-Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6Jd. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonabletestwhichhis
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
IVTIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
-LtJL Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S. A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample eopies free.
The Influence of the Stage  253
Spiritual Phenomena among the Chinese. By E.
J. Wakefield   254
Automatic Writing  a...;....!.;.... 254
Table Moving     255
Spirit Drawings   256
Dreams      257
Floral Manifestations : 257
Curious Powers of Dogs and Crabs. By the Hon.
Percy Wyndham, M.P.  258
A Mystery at the Royal Aquarium     259
Scott’s Letter on the Death of George Bullock.
By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S   259
Spirit Influence upon Normal Individuals. By
Christian Reimers... 261
A Medial Rajah        261
Mrs. Weldon       262
Spiritualism in Hackney.....   362
An Alleged Acrobat       263
Poetry:—Flowers        263
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E.W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
