Registered as a Newspaper.
(Dltosf Hfrtosppr r0mtect^b toit^ Spiritualism iu toat ^ritaitr.
No. 394.—(Vol. XYI.—No. 11.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best duality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, EEGENT’S PAEK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel*street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conduct ed by H. P. BLAVA.TSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, QIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to u The Proprietors of ‘ The Theosophist'" at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-hook by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism,
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro*
gress of what he terms ‘a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher’s Circular.
83, Museum-street, London, W
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 12, 1880.
Just Published. Price One Shilling.
Cloth. Red Edges.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUUALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
. Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trtjbner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Price Five Shillings, post free.
Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing tm equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (comer of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bays water, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
~ MR. W. EGLINTON,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT,
LONDON, S.W.
Notice of removal to si,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily ;
and eight to ten. Evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
RS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies _ and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Days
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to a p.m.
4, Keppell-street, Russell-square, W.C.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone- road, Earls-court, S.W.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Crown 8vo., pp. 165, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Tall Mall
Gazette.
London : Teubnee and Co., Ludgate Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OP SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
M
IND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF.
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
ost free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
T UNACY LAW REFORM
1J ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-streefc, and 79,
Chancery Lane. London, W 0. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 p m. Saturdays 1 to 2
Dessert services cheap:—
J. M. DALE desires to call attention to the
above. A number of Services he is selling at un¬
precedentedly low prices during the present month.
50, Crawford Street, Bryanston Square West, London.
QUEBEC HALL, 25, Great Quebec
Street, London. The Marylebone Association
of Spiritualists.will hold its Anniversary Meeting on
Sunday next, March 7 th. Tea at 5.30 p.m. Heading
&c. by Miss Waite and others. Sacred Songs and
Duetts. Tickets Is. On Monday at 8 promptly, Miss
Waite’s Entertainment, followed by Dancing. Ad¬
mission Free. Collection at close.
ejtts ejw
J[ uf uf mb ]Si]jii[$ xtf ^pij{iijt^K$m+
No. 394.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER ELEVEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 12 th, 18 8 0.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Ihpebial Highness Ni-|
cholas of Russia, Duke of I
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baroness Von Vat, Coun¬
tess Wiirmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Axsaxof,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mi's. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John Jakes
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S.Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jbnceen, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
J. T. Markley, Esq.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marryat
Madame Isabel de Steiger
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holm-
fkld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,O.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A:, (Oxon)
R. Friesk, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 83, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florenob; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51. East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Religio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
THE BENEFICENT HAUNTING,S IN COUNTY
MAYO.
In the endeavour to find a philosophy for
the cures of inveterate diseases, sometimes
effected within the sphere of Dr. Newton and
other healing mediums, also at the Church of
Knock, at holy wells, and at the tombs of
exceptionally good men, we last week ad¬
vanced the, idea that the fact that several
individuals saw St. Mary and St. Joseph
at Knock, was no proof of the personal identity
of those .apparitions, but that what the con¬
trolling spirits thought or willed the mesmeric
sensitives saw, and that those who were not
mesmeric sensitives, saw nothing. The
arguments in detail for the various positions
then advanced, will be found in the book to
which the reader was referred, but for the
guidance of those readers at Knock and else¬
where, who have not considered the conditions
of spiritual existence, some of the evidence
that mesmeric sensitives sometimes see what
an intelligent being near them thiuks, is
adduced.
On the 3rd of May, 1877, a paper by a
mesmeric sensitive, Mr. Thaddeus Hyatt, who
has held responsible positions under the
United States Grovernment, was read before
the Psychological Society, at 11, Chandos
Street, Cavendish Square, London, under the
presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox. Mr. Hyatt
then stated to the Society that he had been
present at a stance in N ew York, at the house
of Mr. Henry Inman, the artist, when Dr.
Buchanan, of Cincinnati, mesmerised him (Mr.
Hyatt), who then saw something so “ silly,”
that he did not state it until “ pressed to tell,”
namely :—u I see a beautiful park in miniature,
and paths in every direction, and an immense
number of little people about three inches
high, all dressed out in knee breeches and
cocked hats, just like the old knickerbockers.”
At this there was a general exclamation of
pleasure, for some of the company had
previously, unknown to the sensitive, requested
Dr. Buchanan to cause him to see this vision.
Dr. J. M. Peebles, now residing at Ham-
manton, New Jersey, and formerly American
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 12, 1880
consul at Trebizonde, informed us that on two
occasions he has mesmerised sensitives, and
with successful results silently willed them to
speak what he thought.
Such are hut brief samples of a class of cases
familiar to students of Spiritualism; the visions
at Knock probably belong to the same category,
and give no clue whatever to the identity of
the spirits actually at work. In fact, whether
those spirits liked it or not, they were obliged
to give visions of traditionally sacred person¬
ages to gain power to go on with the subse¬
quent cures ; had they appeared in any other
form, such as plain John Smith or as Paddy
O’Brien, late of Knock, the §eers, like other
mediums, would have been told by uninformed
but authoritative people thatthey werepossessed
by the devil, whereby all the good work of
healing the sick would have been nipped in the
bud.
There is apparently another reason why
mediums sometimes believe themselves to see
or hear from exalted spirits, who have nothing
to do with the matter, as in the case wherein a
bricklayer in a husky whisper, once told us
that at his last seance Lord Byron pulled off his
boots, and dropped them behind a stove-pipe
at the other end of the room. In many cases
the laws of communication seem to enable the
spirits to but cast ideas into the sphere of the
medium, and be obliged to leave his organism,
unconsciously to himself, to externalise those
ideas on the material plane. For instance, a
spirit, being a poet, wills that his sensitive shall
say “ A poet,” but the organism of the medium
translates the idea into u Shakespeare,” which
the spirit never intended, and perhaps never
afterwards knew had been externalised
on the material plane in that form, for by a
simple reversal of the process, the word
“ Shakespeare ” coming back through the
inquiring mind of the medium, may be read
off by the spirit as “A poet,” and be ratified
by him by the reply “Yes.” Something a
little analogous actually occurs in practical
telegraphy, for if the line-wire of a single
needle telegraph be accidentally attached to
the wrong end of the galvanometer at one of
the stations, the clerk there will get the signal
“No,” distinctly given, every time the sending
station is giving an emphatic “Yes,” so that
while the sender is speaking truthfully at one
end, he is quite ignorant that the reverse of
truth is being signalled by him at the other.
With some very exceptional mediums, how¬
ever, the spirits can give the proper names of
deceased persons with accuracy, and afterwards
|)| convey messages with a great name attached
m —messages altogether unworthy the alleged
ijl sender. There are problems in Spiritualism
j | which will take generations to unravel.
All we contend for at present is, that the
]>j healings at Knock belong to the same category
jsj as those effected through Dr. Newton; that
<1 the visions at Knock are of the same class as
I?I those appertaining to seeing mediums; that
j>j there is no evidence that St. Mary and St.
jsj Joseph have visited the Church at Knock, or
|(i that they know of its existence, and that it is
j) certain that the Catholic Clergy, and the other
m witnesses of good character on the spot, are
jsj acting in honour and in good faith, the
ja psychological phenomena being well within
the range of established experience.
THE KEY TO THEOSOPHY.
BY GEORGE "WYLD, M.D.
Theosophy signifies the knowledge, or the
ja science of the wisdom and will of God, and His
jjl relation to the external universe and to man.
God is the supreme unity. He is the centre
jsj and the circumference, and is thus the key to
jjj man and Christ, to earth and heaven, and to
j)j universal law. He is absolute unity) and
j)j thus absolute perfection, but, He may be said
jsj to manifest himself as a trinity of Spirit,
Ijj Power and Matter.
Man as the microcosm, “is made in the
j | image of God,” and is thus also a triune being
jsj of body, soul and spirit.
This triune nature of man as the Son, is
jjj thus the key to the nature of God as the
| ! Father, and is thus the key to Theosophy. With-
jsj out this key it is impossible to know what
jjj man is, and impossible to know what Christ
jjj is, and impossible to understand how man can
jjj see God in Christ, and thus save his soul.
When, therefore, the ancients wrote on their
jjj temples, Man know thyself, they enigmatically
jjj gave the key to all knowledge and all
jjj Theosophy. Because to know thyself in the
j centre, is to know God.
This is the doctrine taught by the esoteric
jjl Brahmans and Buddhists, by the Kabalistic
jjj Jews, by Pythagoras, by the Platonists, by
jsj Christ himself, by St. John in the Logos, by
jjj St. Paul, by Paracelsus, by the Posicrucians,
jjj by the Alchemists, by Jacob Bcehmen, and
jjj by the ecstatic Saints, who becoming one
j;| with Christ, thus saw and knew God.
We know our bodies to be organic machines
j£j furnished with the five senses of hearing,
Ijl seeing, smelling, tasting and feeling, and these
March 12, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
123
organs bring us en rapport with the external It is by the power of the One that all corn-
universe. K pounds are made, and hence when man becomes
Matter, or the external universe, is the a a spirit, his five senses become one all-seeing
equilibrium of the forces of attraction and > and knowing sense, and as such can, like God,
repulsion. !)| create forms external to himself, and thus in
All forces are modes of action of one force, js! the world of spirits, “ surround himself with
Electricity has been described to me by an |<| the forms of his affections.”
ecstatic in trance as the arm of God, and |?j Bishop Berkeley says, ‘“As we can only
is thus probably in its essence the one force 1)1 know external nature through the mind, we
used by the divine mind. Is! have no proof that nature exists externally to
Thus the foundation or substance of matter k| the mind.”
is force, and the substance of force is the >| This dogma the common sense of mankind
will of God, and the visible universe is thus iS| rejects, and yet, in a sense it is philosophically
only the materialised thoughts of the divine |<| true, but, in the world of spirit it is simply
mind. !?j true, for there external forms are created by
All force manifests itself in vibrations; and i>j the mind, and are materialised thoughts,
all external things being the result of force, m The Heavenly habitations are described as
the mystery of how mind recognises external K] solid and splendid mansions, and so indeed they
matter is explained, for as matter is only an k| are, solid in relation to spirit force, as much
external form of force, it is recognised by \A so as hills and trees and houses are solid in
mind, which is the central force. |;| relation to the grosser quality of soul force.
The Soul is the aggregation of the mental |s| “ The Kingdom of Heaven being within us,”
forces, including the will, and by this soul !?! signifies a condition of the soul and spirit, and
man rules his actions and knows the external |>j not a position in space, and hence, the King-
world. Hi dom of Heaven may be and often is on this
The Spirit is the third factor in the triune K earth, and the departed souls of our beloved
man. It is that which is an atom or spark k ones may as spirits, be in our very midst,
of the spirit of God It is latent in the m But as “ God is of purer eyes than to be-
naturalman. It is the hidden centre or u light hi hold iniquity,” so pure spirits, if we are
of every soul born into the world, and hidden is! sensual, may be incapable of seeing us.
from the foundation of the world.” It is the k| As men and women on this earth congregate
secret Logos which became effulgent in the |?j in congenial societies, whether their nature
Christ, and it is that by which only God can jSl be frivolous, vicious, selfish, or thoughtful, or
be known. It is above and beyond reason. Kj holy, so in the spirit world we shall be in
It is of the nature of the knowledge and kI societies, in relation to our affections for good
wisdom and power of God. j>j or evil.
Thus the soul reasons on the evidences |$j Those who, while on this earth, give them-
fumished by our organisation, but the spirit K| selves to u the world, the flesh and the devil,”
knows by intuition. k| are fed by these; but, those who give them-
The soul works by physical agents, and its j>! selves to truth and love and God, are min-
power is limited by mechanism. The spirit |>| istered unto by angels.
works by will, and its powers are unlimited js| Spiritualism, by the phenomena which come
by physical law. The soul accumulates, and a through mediums, demonstrates that there is a
remembers facts; the spirit sees and knows |>| force connected with human beings unrecog¬
all things. iS nised by what is called Science.
The soul rules the body. The spirit rules |<l It claims to demonstrate the existence of
the soul, and God rules the spirit. The soul i<| the soul after death, by producing messages
is the ego of the body, the spirit is the ego of ])] and visible forms asserting that they are those
the soul, and God is the ego of the spirit. jS of our departed friends.
As the soul is the ruler of the body in this Isj Regarding the question of identity, I speak
physical world, so the spirit is the ruler of |<| in another place, but here I would say that
the soul in the spiritual word. The spirit is j>| just as a Professor Owen, from the discovery
the unity in man, and thus is en rapport with |)| of a single fossil-bone of an unknown animal
the unity of God. jsi can postulate the entire animal, so the
As the spirit is a unity it is indivisible, k philosopher from a single spiritual fact, be it
and therefore indestructible, and hence im- j)j only a single instance of clairvoyance, or only
mortal. 1)1 the moving of a chair in obedience to volition,
124
THE SPI
say one yard, can construct an entire spiritual
science.
The Theosophist therefore does not so much
interest himself in the insatiable accumulation
of spiritual phenomena as in that philosophy
of spirit which is built on spiritual facts, his
absorbing interest being in the nature, capa¬
bilities and development of his own personal
soul and spirit, in their relation to himself, to
external nature and to God.
The Oriental Adept is one who has devoted
himself to Theosophy, and who by a long and
severe training, described in another place,
commands by means of soul force, his own
spirit; and acts as if he were a demi-God.
I briefly elsewhere describe how this power
is achieved, but here, I may say that a long
course of training, having for its object the
subjugation of the body to the will of the
soul, or in other words, a long training in
self-denial, constitutes the essence of the life.
The food of the adept is eaten slowly and
with sacrifice, and of consists of cereals, and
fruits and milk. Alcohol is strictly forbidden,
and the flesh of animals, and especially blood
is also forbidden.
Absolute Chastity is also a sine qua non.
But a man may devote himself to adeptship
from his youth, or he may do so as the father
of a family, if he so far retires from the
family circle and lives apart, and in this
manner the earth may be peopled, and yet the
order of adeptship be maintained.
Marriage signifies the union of the positive
soul with the pure, beautiful and intuitional
spirit.
When, then, men and women unite as one in
this perfect accord, marriage is the happiest
of all earthly conditions, and is, moreover,
not only consistent with the perfect earthly
life, but may be regarded as essential to that
life.
Nevertheless and notwithstanding this, it
is not the less true that the highest spiritual
gifts and powers have in all ages of the world
and of the Church, been recognised as the
special inheritance of the virgin and celibate.
This is a mystery which I have not found
any satisfactory explanation of, either in the
teachings of occultists, or in the lives of the
saints, and I submit the following as that
which comes to my mind.
The sexual instinct in man has for its end
the procreation of the human race, in order
that man may increase and multiply, and re¬
plenish the earth and subdue it.
Thus, man has the power of creating a new
ITUALIST. March 12, 1880.
cl being possessed of an immortal spirit, and
;j hence this power should be regarded as a
S| responsibility of the most secret, sacred, and
a solemn nature.
It is a remarkable fact that among the
S; lower animals, the female who generally be-
! comes pregnant by a single act, so long as she
(j is pregnant, rejects all further approaches of
?| the male with anger and indignation. Does
>1' nature not in this wonderful fact teach man ?
Excess of the sexual instinct is antagonistic
(| to love, and is generally accompanied by
?! treachery and cruelty.
Irregularity in the sexual instinct is truly
<! termed dissipation^ that is, it dissipates or
d scatters the soul force, and is thus directly
>| antagonistic to that soul force, which as unity
si is remembrance and by which man so controls
d his body as to rise to true manhood, or to
?j that concentration by which true spiritual
;| powers are obtained. Hence all such dissi-
>1 pation is directly opposed to the obtaining of
1j the occult, or saintly power of spirit miracles. .
As spiritual powers are obtained by the
! subjugation of the bodily desires, by the will
I power of the soul, and as the sexual is the
| strongest of all bodily instincts, its subjugation
$! to the will of the soul, more than any other
)| discipline, is rewarded by spiritual gifts.
As animal power is the reverse of spiritual
(| power, the two cannot co-exist at one and the
>1 same time.
There are those whose natures cannot be
si entirely controlled. Such beings should be
j judged with discrimination, but such, so long
j as they continue so, cannot enter that “ King-
/« dom of Heaven, where there is neither
si marriage nor giving in marriage.”
Marriage I have said signifies union of soul
| and spirit, which constitutes the perfect Duad.
si But if it ends in the physical union of man
o and woman, then woman as a form is worship-
?! ped in the place of spirit, the essential, and
>| this leads to the idolatry of matter.
Thus the love towards the woman is the
substitution of external for internal delights,
(i and calls forth the jealousy of that l( Divine
! Sophia,” with whom those who, with profound
S| reverence worship God as a spirit, and thus
! evoke their spiritual centre and find the Logos,
| are united. These know that there is a
)| spiritual marriage incompatible with that of the
! flesh.
Returning to adeptship, let us consider
| wherein lies the distinction between the adept
>| and the spirit medium.
A spirit medium is one whose soul is easily
March 12, 1880. THE S PI E
detached from the body, and generally be- b
cause that body is in a state of weakness.
This detached soul of the medium entering K
the world of spirit, sees and associates with j?
other departed souls, and by their help moves |)
tables or writes in closed spaces, or reads the K
mind of those present, or, as the double, not only is
acts at a distance from the body but manifests !<
itself as a visible body, or ghost, or double, at a |)
distance.
The soul of the medium being thus absent Is
from the body, that body may become occupied j?
by a wandering or foreign soul who makes use j;
of that body for its own ends.
It will be seen that thus the medium is in a K
negative position, a mere body in the possession K
of strangers, and hence professional mediums b
who give promiscuous stances becoming pos- |)
sessed by spirits of a nature analogous to the is
surrounding company, may on certain occasions K
act wisely, but too often foolishly, ignorantly |?
or falsely.
Even those mediums who are confined to the |
family circle can scarcely rise above the quality jc
of that circle, and hence although pure and noble !>
messages are from time to time given through j>
such mediums, yet even these mediums, be- I
coming surrounded by spirits in their own j<
likeness, are apt to reflect ideas and senti- j?
ments consistent with their own desires ; and |)
hence may be, and often are, the victims of |S
misplaced confidence.
It must be evident that spirits who come from j
a metaphysical world to teach us earthly wisdom | >
must often be less capable of doing so than |s
embodied spirits who, living in a physical world, K
use with modesty that truth and reason which I)
are given to them.
All that is claimed by mediums is the reverse Is
of the powers claimed by the adept. The R
medium is negative but the adept is positive.
He refuses to submit his body to the use of j>
others, but so brings his body under the control Is
of his own soul that he can project his soul and K
spirit, and while living on this earth act as if R
he were a disembodied spirit.
Hence the adept can consciously see the I
minds of others. He can act by his soul force k
on external spirits. He can accelerate the |?
growth of plants, and quench fire, and subdue |;
ferocious wild beasts like Daniel. He can send Is
his soul to a distance, and there not only read the R
thoughts of others, but speak to and touch these R
distant objects, and not only so, but he can ex- l>
hibit to his distant friends his spiritual body in |s
the exact likeness of that of the flesh.
Moreover, as the adept acts by the power of R
T U A L I 8 T. 125
his spirit, he can as a unitive force, create out of
the surrounding multiplex atmosphere, the
likeness of any physical object, or he can com¬
mand physical objects to come into his presence.
These statements will not be credited by
those ignorant of such things, but this writer
asserts that these statements are absolute facts.
Mesmerism, as being within the reach of
scientific experimentation, throws great light
on occult phenomena.
The mesmeric sensitive as a clairvoyant can
see the thoughts of others, and can read print
in closed spaces, and the mesmeriser can at times
order the entranced soul or spirit of the
sensitive to travel to a distance, and then not
only see those there present but touch them.
The mesmeric sensitive thus resembles the
medium in so far as she is passive, but she
differs both from the medium and from the
adept in this, that her soul or spirit is under
the control of a being living on this earth—^in¬
stead of being under the control of foreign
spirits or her own spirit.
Mesmeric healing appears to me to be of
three degrees:—
1st. As mere animal magnetism the dis¬
eased or negative subject by receiving this
positive magnetism is strengthened.
2nd. The magnetiser by using will force,
can so act on the brain and mind of the sensitive
as to alter molecular action and thus heal
desease.
3rd. The wholesome, pure and benevolent
man or woman, by simply placing the hands
on the patient and calmly desiring the blessing
of God, would seem to become sometimes as
mediums for the transmission of spiritual
benevolence.
The power of oriental adepts to heal disease
rests it is said chiefly in the power of the will,
but the power of Christ and his disciples to heal
disease was the power of the love and will of
God.
The Christian Alchemists asserted that their
power to convert the lower metals into gold,
and to create precious stones, consisted in the
use as a basis of that ultimate unitive in matter
which was reached by a series of successful
fermentations, by which the ultimate spirit was
distilled—and so also they asserted that the
regenerated and sanctified body, soul and spirit
of man were also thus reached by a successive
series of deaths and resurrections.
Jesus of Nazareth being filled with the holy
spirit became the Christ, the only begotten and
well beloved son of God,j»ar excellence, the com¬
plete and perfect spiritual man, and thus the
126
THE SPIBITU ALIST.
March 12, 1880.
saviour of the souls of those who regarding
Him as the Way, the Truth, and the Life,
become one with Him as He is one with the
Lather.
This position Christ obtained through per¬
fect submission to the v/ill of God, and He
thereby obtained spiritual gifts and powers be¬
yond all possibility to soul force.
, ■ If we become one with Him as he was one
with God, then we also shall, after a measure,
possess like gifts.
Those Saints who entirely surrendered self
to the will of God being filled with the spirit
became luminous, healed diseases and wrought
miracles.
The Oriental adept sometimes ‘‘scales the
heavens by violence,” but the saints ascended
to heaven, as did Elijah, by the power of the
love of God.
The sacrifice of Christ was self-sacrifice,
that is the sacrifice of the soul and body to
the will and love of God, and this is the only
true method of salvation by Christ.
Thus, religion and morality are nothing
more and nothing less than love to God and
love to man. Or the spirit of the Son seeking
the spirit of God the Father, and “as the
Father worketh hitherto,” so we desire now
to work.
No form of Christianity can be true which
ignores or under-estimates the deep significance
of the miracles of Christ, for such miracles are
inseparable from the truly divine life, and
exhibit the divine possibilities contained in the
triune manhood.
This is Theosophy, that “ the Will of God
be done on Earth, as in Heaven.”
By miracles I mean the power of the One
Spirit to supplant all secondary forces, whether
the spirit manifest itself as when the Spirit of
God moving on the face of the waters and called
life into existence and the earth out of chaos ;
or when the Spirit of Christ healed diseases
and cast out demons, or changed water into
wine, or passed into a closed chamber “ the
door being shut; ” or the spirit of man, when
like Christ does like works, because he has gone
to the Father.
*** The Holy Spirit of the Lord
A | The Spirit of Man at one with the will of God
B | The Spirit acts with Divine Reason
C | The Spirit Vision, or Clairvoyance, or Intuition
D | The Spirit Revery or Delusion
D’ | The Soul’s Revery or day dreaming
C’ | The Imagination
B’ | The Rational Soul
A’ | The Soul or will force
This diagram, the initial hint of which I got
si from my late friend John Dove, represents my
<1 views as to the difference between soul and
)j spirit, and the gradations of each. It will be
Si observed that “ as above so below,” there are
Sj four corresponding gradations.
x x Eepresents the middle wall of partition
;| which separates the soul sphere from the spirit
j! sphere.
**#Itepresents the soul in a position of equi-
a poise or oblivious sleep, placed in “ the valley
>j of the shadow of death.”
D’ Eepresents the soul in a state of revery—
liable to delusion, or “Electro Biology.”
D Eepresents the spirit on first awaking in
| the spirit sphere of revery, namely, in the con-
si dition easily imposed on by soul force. In a
S| purgatorial state of hallucination, and prone to
>1 impose on others. It is from this region, I
Sj believe, that for the most part, come those
II spirits which haunt our promiscuous stances.
| They descend through the narrow way and
| biologise the mediums who are in a condition
| of soul revery at D. Spirits at D’ are under the
| control of soul or will force.
C This represents the position of the clair-
j voyant spirit but still within the influence of
y the corresponding region of soul imagination
atC\
B This is the position of spiritual reason
Si and spiritual knowledge and power correspond-
| ing to B\
A This is the position where the spirit, be-
i ing beyond earth and human reason, has be-
)| come a perfect unity, at one with the Holy
II Spirit of the Lord, and in perfect subjection to
|| the will of God. Its utterances being “ Thus
;| saith the Lord.”
Cmessfmtktta.
>j [Great freedom, is given to correspondents who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
(i readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
(|i should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
(I are not anonymous.]
THE KNOCK APPARITIONS.
)j Sir,—The discrepancies which exist in the published
('i accounts of the above apparitions render it especially
M necessary that some careful scientific examination
should take place.
(| The Archbishop of Tuam having acted in the matter,
<! and the question being now pendente Ute, it is surely
Sj hazardous to pronounce any opinion on an event which
(\ as yet has not been decided by any sort of authority
(i really to have occurred; and which prudent Catholics
)j are at liberty to consider as open a question as those
<! of La Salette, Lourdes, or Marpingen. I must especially
)| deprecate the use of the expression “an Irish Lourdes,”
Yl as I fail to see the resemblance between the testimony
si of one person (Bernadette) and those of the numerous
witnesses who allege that they have seen something at
Knock.
I may furthermore just hint for the information of
those persons who are not versed in ecclesiastical law,
that the evidences of the apparition at Knock, and those
of the cures which took place at a subsequent time are
entirely separate, and that they cannot stand or fall
together.
But whatever we may now think, we may know that
the investigation is in good hands, and that the truth
(in the first place) is sure to be arrived at. Till the
whole of the evidence has been laid before some com¬
petent authority, and the decision of the Archbishop’s
commission has been given, let me respectful!)
deprecate discussion on an event which is of interest
to various persons from more than one point of view.
C. Carter Blake.
79, Chancery Lane, London, W.C., March 5, 1880.
A CURIOUS LEGEND.
Sir,—As collateral evidence of the antiquity of the
phenomena of extraordinary movements connected
with the hands of persons being placed either on or off
certain so called material objects, I send you the fol¬
lowing extract from Dr. Lardner’s Cyclopaedia—History
of Spain and Portugal, volume 1, page 215. It relates to
a certain Sainted Hermit, Saturius, who lived I believe
about the sixth century.
He died at Osma as he was returning to Larazona.
“In vain did his attendant clergy endeavour to
convey the corpse to that city. The litter or bier
would not move one foot so long as their hands were
on it. But the moment it was left to itself, away it
went up hill and down dale over the mountainous
range between Osma and Logrono, ascended a hill,
crossed the little Brook Licia, and stopped before the
mouth of a cave. The same no doubt where his
morning life had been spent.”
The general public have been so many centuries
disbelievers in the veracity of these ancient stories that
even the almost undisputed evidence of the present
day fails to convince; and yet if half your paper says is
true, I see no reason why the foregoing was an
impossibility.
W. St. George Boss.
Disley via Stockport.
AN OUTLINE OF THE CAREER OF MR. THOMAS LAKE HARRIS
WANTED.
Sir,—Can any of your readers tell me who the Bev.
T. L. Harris was, who preached a series of sermons in
the Store Street Music Hall, London ?
Those sermons were on Spiritualism.
They were printed so long ago as 1860, but show a
familiarity with most of the phenomena of more recent
times. P. T. W.
MR. THOMAS WALKER*S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—Be kind enough to announce in your next
issue that on Monday evening next, Mr. Thos. Walker
will address a meeting in these rooms at 8 o’clock,
prior to his leaving England for South Africa on the
following day (Tuesday). A cordial invitation is held
out to metropolitan spiritualists to attend and take
part in the proceedings.
Thomas Blyton, Hon. Sec.
Dais ton Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism,
53, Sigdon Hoad, London, March 8th, 1880.
127
THE ABNOBMAL MOVEMENTS OE SOLID
OBJECTS..
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON F.G.S. AUTHOR OF “LETTERS TO
MISS MART1NEAU.”
As one of the committee of the Dialectical
Society appointed to investigate the alleged facts
of modern Spiritualism, allow me to relate an
incident that could not he noticed in our
report. After two hours sitting, the members
retired to the other end of a long room for tea,
>| but the medium, the wife of a medical gentle-
J | man, remained seated by the side of the table
<| as in a trance or mesmeric sleep, with her
(\ hand on her lap. Without a word said, I
11 took one of her hands and placed it gently on
| the table, a heavy dining table, it immediately
t moved away many inches. The lady then
| awoke, so the experiment could not be re-
1 peated before others, but the incident seemed
| to show how completely the medium was the
I source of the power, a power which is
| probably often interfered with by the uncon-
;j genial nature of some, or some one of the
!i sitters. Of course the medium being then in
| a trance, must be considered.
My committee was a sub-committee, and not
I the one affording the chief evidence of the
! phenomena in question; it sat always in
j the presence of the same medium, a lady about
I thirty years of age, and in perfect health, ex-
;i cept in respect to some little nervous peculari-
sj ties occasionally, which I forgot about.
I remember Miss Hardinge in one of her
?! meetings in Harley Street, stating in reply
)| to a question that with good mediums there was
s| mostly something of a triflingly abnormal
a character.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
?| THE IBISH LOUBDES.
From the “ Daily News,” February 27th, 1880.
(by telegraph.)
CLABEMOBBIS, Thursday Night.
The Lourdes of Ireland, as the little cbapel of Knock
Sj claims to be, is about six miles from Claremorris,
?j county Mayo, a station on the Mayo branch of the
i Midland Great Western line. Arriving at Claremorris
this afternoon, I drove immediately to Knock, over a
road as hilly as any to be found even in the west of
Ireland. Before describing the extraordinary scene
I which I witnessed there, it may be as well briefly to
i state the substance of the stories that have been
i circulating here for the last few weeks, in reference to
the alleged apparitions at the chapel, and the alleged
miraculous cures that have been worked in the
| neighbourhood. It should be premised that although
?i the first vision is stated to have been witnessed so far
(| back as the 21st of August last, no publicity was
Sj given to the matter until the beginning of January in
?! the present year. This delay is the more remarkable
sj inasmuch as the “evidence” taken by direction of
? i Archbishop MacHale was obtained so long back as the
March 12, 1880. THE SPIBITUALIST.
<
<
<
128 THE SPIE
8th October. Publicity was first given to the alleged j?
occurrence in the Tuam News of the ninth of January, i s
and then in a cautious, hesitating manner, accompanied i)
by an intimation that the ecclesiastical authorities had K
up to that time pronounced no final opinion, although iS
Archdeacon Cavanagh, the parish priest of Knock, had j)
expressed his belief in the reality of the apparition and \(
in the reality of some of the cures reported to have I)
been effected on the invalids and cripples, the blind ||
and the deaf, who have visited the place. The is
principal “ vision ” was that stated to have been wit- w
nessed on the 21st of August. The chief witness as to jc
the apparition is Mary McLoughlin, a middle-aged IS
woman, the housekeeper of Archdeacon Cavanagh. j)
Her account is substantially that as she was passing is
the chapel about half-past seven in the evening, on the I)
way to a widow Byrne’s, she saw a vision in which I?
there appeared three figures, one of the Virgin Mary, IS
one of St. Joseph, and the other, as she thought, of j)
St. John the Evangelist. The figures, which presented I (
a statue-like appearance, were nearly life size. They j;
were all radiant with a silvery whiteness, which ap- \)
peared, like silver, to reflect a bright light. “ The |s
attitude of the Virgin Mary was that of a woman I)
standing erect in the attitude of prayer, with her eyes I?
to heaven, her hands like those of a priest at mass in |s
saying the collects, raised with palms open, slightly I)
upturned. The image of the Virgin was, like the rest, | (
of a silvery whiteness, and elevated one foot from the n
ground where they appeared. The image of St. Joseph |?
appeared to the right of the Blessed Virgin Mary, K
having his head slightly turned towards that of our l)
Blessed Lady. The image of St. John appeared on j(
the left of the Blessed Virgin Mary, radiant with light, $
and holding a mass book or book of Gospels in his left i?
hand, the right raised in the attitude of one who was K
preaching; the index finger and the middle finger only I;
were raised, with the thumb leaning on them, and the j?
other two fingers compressed as if he were forcibly is
explaining some point of doctrine. He wore a mitre, j;
and turned a little from the Blessed Virgin Mary I?
towards the altar. These three figures appeared to be Is
standing at the south gable of the chapel.” Mary I)
McLoughlin goes on to say that when she passed she Is
saw these figures for fully five minutes. The sight j;
does not appear to have made much impression on her, j?
for according to her statement she went on to Mrs. |s
Byrne’s, and stayed there fully half an hour. From l)
the statement of Mary Byrne it does not appear that Is
Mary McLoughlin mentioned the matter at all during I)
this half hour. The two, however, returned towards j)
the chapel at a quarter past eight o’clock, when Mary is
McLoughlin says they again beheld the vision, but I Si
now it was much brighter and fuller. She was “so |?i
taken with the sight that she asked Mary Byrne to go Is
back for her mother, her brother, her sister, and her j>
niece. They came and others were sent for, most of Ic:
whom remained looking at the apparition for a con- IS
siderable time.” Mary McLoughlin adds: “On this I?
occasion we not only beheld the figures I have just now js
described, but an altar further on to the left of the |)
statue or image of Our Blessed Lady, and above the l<
altar the Lamb, about the size of a newly-yeaned lamb, jS
and say a fortnight or three weeks old. Behind the |?
Lamb appeared the Cross lying, not elevated, and the Is
body of the Lamb a little removed in front of it, and j S
not resting on the wood of the cross. Around the |)
Lamb a number of gold-like stars in the form of nimbus I s
or halo. This altar was placed right under the window i;
outside, which is the middle of the back of the church l<
at Knock, and more to the east of the figures.” Mary |s
Byrne, on the other hand, states that she saw no cross ;
TUALIST. Maboh 12, 1880.
and her brother, Dominick Byrne, who, like the others,
made a deposition before Canon Alick J. Bourke, P.P.,
Olaremorris, and a number of other Roman Catholic
Clergymen commissioned to take evidence, says he did
not see the cross. It is noteworthy that in all the
depositions yet published certain significant matters of
detail contained in the statements of other professed
eye-witnesses are absent. One of the most startling
accounts is that given by a boy named Patrick Hill,
thirteen years of age, who states that he was among
those who saw the apparition on the night of the 21st
of August. He saw the cross which was “ standing ”
on the altar—Mary McLoughlin, it will be remembered,
says it was “lying, not elevated ”—and the two Byrnes
did not see the cross at all. From Mary McLoughlin’s
account it would appear that no one went nearer than
a distance of thirty feet from the chapel, but, according
to Hill’s story, as given in the (Dublin) Weekly News,
an old woman that was there tried to put her hand
round the Virgin’s feet, which were visible from the
ankles down.
This apparition of the 21st of August was not seen
by Archdeacon Cavanagh. He has expressed his deep
regret that he missed the opportunity, for he remem¬
bers that his housekeeper, Mary McLoughlin told him
of it when she returned to the house, but he paid no
attention to her at the time. No further apparition
seems to have been vouchsafed until the 6th of
January. The statement is that late on the night of the
5th, being the Eve of the Epiphany, the teacher of the
female National School, a Miss Anderson, expecting to
see something, went with her assistant to the chapel
field, and about half-past eleven p.m. she saw a “ row
of lights along the wall. The lights strayed frequently,
and would fade slowly till they got very dim, and then
they brightened up again, but they never got very
bright. They all faded together, not one before the
other. After seeing the lights and the stars I saw
lower down, near the ground, a small figure about a
foot and a half in height. From the appearance of the
head and shoulders I took it to be the figure of the
Blessed Virgin. I remained there till two o’clock. I
think the figure had disappeared. The large lights
had disappeared, but a few of the stars had not.” Two
constables of the R.I.O. are said to have confirmed this
statement of Miss Anderson’s, on whose authority also
rests an alleged apparition on the night of the 2nd inst.,
described as a “cloud of light with stars flashing from
the part near the ground where she saw the small
figure on the night of the 5th of January.” The latest
“ vision,” however, is recorded by Archdeacon Cavanagh
as having been seen by himself on the night of the 12th
of February. On that night he says he saw a most
brilliant star outside the gable. It lit up the whole
place. It came and struck against the spot where the
apparition of the Blessed Virgin was seen, and flashed
with the quickness of lightning. He adds :—“ I have
frequently of late, about eight or nine at night, seen
a golden light floating about the gable with stars and
brilliant lights flashing through it, but I never saw
anything so dazzling as that one star last night.”
Inside the church as well he has seen stars about the
altar on both sides of a little stained glass window.
On arriving in Claremorris I had scarcely stepped on
the platform when I was asked if I was going to Knock.
At the hotel I was informed that a party of half-a-dozen
strangers had gone from there in the forenoon, that
visitors were coming, not only from Limerick, Water¬
ford, Cork, and other parts of Ireland, but also frorn
England and Scotland. I asked the driver of the
outside car as we started for Knock whether he knew
any of the people who had been cured of ailments.
March 12, 1880.
His answer was, “I saw two, thank Q-od.” One, he K
added, had been blind, and the other lame. I asked
were they Claremorris people. “ No,” he replied, “one • jv
was from Limerick and the other from Castlerea.” I i)
asked had any one residing at Knock been cured, but j<
he did not know of any one. I reached Knock shortly j)
after five o’clock. The spectacle which I witnessed I $
can only describe as perhaps the most saddening I k
have ever experienced. The chapel is close to the main K
road. The gable on which the apparition is said to i)
have been manifested faces the visitor as he draws near K
the chapel. In front of this were a number of people, K
some of them decently-clad peasantry, men and women;
but others, and these the majority, the most wretched- K
looking creatures that it is possible to conceive. Some !;
were kneeling in the mud in front of the gable, now i;
boarded over to the height of about seven feet to K
prevent the stones being taken out of the wall and the !<>
edifice destroyed—a precaution which was not adopted K
a moment too soon, as, after all the cement had been ];
removed, the stones were being picked out one after I?
the other. Others were kneeling at the cross over the is
grave of the founder of the chapel, and more were
engaged carefully picking out scraps of cement from ■
the side wall, which had not yet been boarded, and on
which no apparition has yet been alleged to have been
seen. These scraps of cement were being carefully
treasured by some who put them in handkerchiefs,
while others were in the act of moistening the cement
and applying it to whatever part of their body was
affected by an ailment. One respectable man who was
not blind, but who probably thought his sight might be
improved, was applying the material to his eyes.
Others were in the act of catching the water from the
slating running over the gable, and moistening the
clay with it. Large numbers were walking round the
chapel continuously muttering their prayers as they
went. Among those were two men, seemingly father
and son, the latter blind. Both were walking round
and round the chapel with their heads uncovered when
I arrived, and they were continuing to perform the same
wearisome task when I took my leave. One delicate-
looking youth, seemingly in consumption, knelt in the
mud, for it was mud everywhere around the stone cross
already alluded to. He did not move the whole time I
was there, and it was obvious that the mode of relief
which the poor lad was seeking was too likely to end
in accelerating his descent to the grave. Inside the
chapel (the altar of which was lighted up) was crowded
with a motley assemblage not dissimilar to that outside,
mostly engaged in acts of devotion. In the porch,
however, were a number of young men and women who
seemed to be enjoying themselves considerably, laugh¬
ing and joking. The entrance gate might be said to be
in keeping of a blind beggar, who kept dinning into
the ears of all passers-by the nature of his infirmity,
and never ceased requesting alms. The place was, in
fact, infested with beggars, who in every instance
added to their importunities the promise that they
would pray to the Blessed Virgin on behalf of their
benefactors. Outside the gates were booths and tents
of all descriptions for the sale of “ articles of devotion,”
cakes, oranges, aerated waters, &c., the best position,
however, being given to the tent in which “ articles of
devotion” were on sale. The scene as I have de¬
scribed it continues, I am informed, to a late hour in
the night.
Soon after her arrival in America, Mrs. Hollis
Billing will leave Washington for San Francisco.
Miss Kate Coox, the well-known medium, is in
Folkestone.
129
THE PHANTOM BLACKSMITH.
Recently the Religio-Philosophical Journal
(Chicago), printed the following curious nar¬
rative :—
“We learn from a long communication pub¬
lished in the Jackson (Mich.) Patriot, that
there is much excitement in the western
portion of Columbia township over certain
mysterious manifestations in a deserted black¬
smith’s shop, formerly owned by Mr. 0. A-
Powers, and in which, up to the autumn of
1878, he carried on the business of a black¬
smith. In the year named he disposed of his
property and emigrated to Kansas, where he
soon after died.
“ Hear the old blacksmith’s shop, which has
not been used since its former owner moved
away, resides Mr. Henry Towner. For several
months, at intervals, Mr. Towner has heard
noises at night of a mysterious nature, pro¬
ceeding from the unoccupied building. One
$j Wednesday evening all were startled by the
s| ringing of an anvil, as if from the stroke of a
)| hammer, and that it came from the dark in-
terior of the old shop was established beyond
| cavil by Mr. Towner, and his family, and
)j others living near, who walked toward the
\j building and heard the heavy strokes and the
| familiar metallic ring within. The excite-
I ment, despite the unbelievers, increased with
| discussion, and it was resolved by some of the
! male members of the community to establish
)\ a watch, and if possible ferret out the mystery.
“One Saturday evening, lately, eighteen men
| gathered in the vicinity of the shop early in
| the evening and patiently awaited results.
Hot a sound was heard until about half-past
)\ eight o’clock, when the clear ringing sound of
j>| an anvil saluted the ears of the entire party.
(| There was no mistaking it! It came from
?j the little old shop which was but a few rods
;j from where they were standing, and the sound
<| was that of a hammer wielded by a strong arm
<| descending in measured strokes. By a pre-
?j concerted arrangement the crowd made for the
I apparently haunted building and surrounded
I it. Those who examined the interior found
<!j the windows nailed down, with no means of
d egress save through the doors by which the
>| company had entered, and there was not only
s| no one to be found high or low inside, but
<| there was no evidence of anybody having
?! entered the place for weeks. The tools had
)| been long before removed. It was finally
s| resolved to close the doors and retire, and see
l\ whether the phantom workman, or what seemed
THE SPIRITUALIST.
130
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 12, 1880.
to be such, would resume his labours again, jj
The watchers thereupon stepped outside and jj
closed the doors, when instantly the hammer- j<
ing inside was resumed and again they heard j<
the anvil’s clear and musical ring. The noise j<
fell upon every ear, and could have been easily jj
heard some distance away. It continued for js
an hour, when the blows gave place to silence k
and all was still.”
A week later the editor of The Religio- |?
Philosophical Journal seemed to believe the I
above to be an erroneous narrative, because |
disbelievers in real spiritual phenomena said I
that boys did it, also because a ghost of an !
anvil could not readily be created. Is this so ? j
There are many strange problems in psycho- |
logy yet unsolved. Witness the following |
case, from Mrs. Crowe’s Night Side of Nature, j
about spirit carpenters working with tools.:— j
“When the mother of George Canning, R
then Mrs. Hunn, was an actress in the j?
provinces, she went, amongst other places, to D
Plymouth, having previously requested her |s
friend, Mr. Bernard, of the theatre, to procure R
her a lodging. On her arrival, Mr. Bernard R
told her that if she was not afraid of a ghost, j>
she might have a comfortable residence at a H
very low rate ; 4 for there is,’ said he, 4 a house R
belonging to our carpenter, that is reported to R
be haunted, and nobody will live in it. If R
you like to have it, you may, and for nothing, |s
I believe, for he is so anxious to get a tenant; R
only you must not let it be known that you do R
not pay rent for it.’
44 Mrs. Hunn, alluding to the theatrical K
apparitions, said it would not be the first time R
she had had to do with a ghost, and that she R
was very willing to encounter this one; so R
she had her luggage taken to the house in js
question, and the bed prepared. At her R
usual hour, she sent her maid and her children R
to bed, and, curious to see if there was any R
foundation for the rumour she had heard, R
she seated herself with a couple of candles j?
and a book, to watch the event. Beneath the R
room she occupied was the carpenter’s work- js
shop, which had two doors; the one which K
opened into the street was barred and bolted j?
within; the other, a smaller one, opening R
into the passage, was only on the latch; and R
the house was, of course, closed for the night. <
She had read somewhat more than half an R
hour, when she perceived a noise issuing from 6
this lower apartment, which sounded' very js
much like the sawing of wood; presently, R
other such noises as usually proceed from a
carpenter’s workshop were added, till, by
and by, there was a regular concert of
knocking and hammering, and sawing and
planing, &c. ; the whole sounding like half a
dozen busy men in full employment. Being
a woman of considerable courage, Mrs. Hunn
resolved, if possible, to penetrate the mystery ;
so, taking off her shoes, that her approach
might not be heard, with her candle in her
hand, she very softly opened her door and
descended the stairs, the noise continuing as
loud as ever, and evidently proceeding from
the workshop, till she opened the door, when
instantly all was silent-—all was still—not a
mouse was stirring; and the tools and the
wood, and everything else, lay as they had
been left by the workmen when they went
away. Having examined every part of the
place, and satisfied herself that there was
nobody there, and that nobody could get into it,
Mrs. Hunn ascended to her room again,
beginning almost to doubt her own senses,
and question with herself whether she had
really heard the noise or not, when it re-com-
menced and continued, without intermission,
for about half an hour. She however went to
bed, and the next day told nobody what had
occurred, having determined to watch another
night before mentioning the affair to any one.
As, however, this strange scene was acted over
again, without her being able to discover the
cause of it, she now mentioned the circum¬
stance to the owner of the house and to her
friend Bernard; and the former, who would
not believe it, agreed to watch with her, which
he did. The noise began as before, and he
was so horror-struck, that instead of entering
the workshop, as she wished him to do, he
rushed into the street. Mrs. Hunn continued
to inhabit the house the whole summer, and
when referring afterwards to the adventure,
she observed, that use was second nature ; and
that she was sure if any night these ghostly
carpenters had not pursued their visionary
labours, she should have been quite frightened,
lest they should pay her a visit up stairs.”
Count de Bullet’s former medium in Paris, Mr.
Alfred Firman, is about to leave England for St.
Petersburg, to give stances to investigators.
Spiritualism in the Dutch Indies.—Mr. A. J. Riko
writes from the Hague that he has been stirring up an
interest in Spiritualism in the Dutch Indies, by means
of articles on the subject which have been published in
newspapers in Batavia, Samarang, and elsewhere.
Mr. Eglinton called upon Mr. Riko, at the Hague,
while on his way to give seances to some of the
professors at Leipzig University.
March 12, 1880. THE SPIRI
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
Mr. Thomas Gales Forster, of Baltimore, writes as |)|
follows to The Banner of Light, (Chicago), February j)j
28th, 1880)
The singular phase of mediumship exhibited by Kj
Mr. Powell is doubtless more or less familiar with your Dj
Boston readers, and perhaps those of other eastern Kj
cities; but to those who have never witnessed the Kj
method a brief description will certainly not prove j)i
uninteresting. It is so unique, however, in its Kj
character, that, in my effort at a representation of the jSj
same, I fear I shall be capable of enlisting but a j);
slight degree of that appreciation which personal ob- Kj
servation can alone fully arouse. For instance, he iSj
writes upon slates and upon paper (without the aid kj
of either pencil usually deemed necessary in such Is!
cases) with the end of his index finger and in full light. !)j
The general manner of procedure is somewhat in this Ki
wise: the medium washes his hands with soap and 1)1
water in the presence of the circle, in order that the j)j
end of the index finger may be seen to be thoroughly Kj
cleansed, and takes his seat as one of the circle. After j)j
he is entranced the controlling spirit directs each l)j
person in the room to examine the finger closely, that
they may be satisfied nothing is attached to the end j;j
thereof—under the.nail or otherwise. Continuing the i< j
finger in sight of the circle, he then takes hold with Kj
his left hand of one end of a slate that has also been j/j
examined to the satisfaction of all present, and desires j(j
some one to hold the other end. The index finger of Kj
the right hand is then brought down to the slate, and jd
with the bald end thereof the spirit writes as distinctly Is!
as if the fingers held a pencil in the usual manner. !;j I
This was done repeatedly by the controlling spirit of jd
the medium, conveying his own and the messages of Kj
other spirit-friends present. The same process was ob- j)i
served in writing upon paper—with the difference only j(j
in the quality of the substance used as a pencil. In Kj
this manner, upon paper, I received a communication jd
giving the name of one of my spirit-daughters.
Not only in this manner does the controlling spirit jj>j
write with the finger of his medium, but, taking hold jd
of the finger of different persons present, he will use it Ki
in a similar manner, giving the same wonderful mani- i)|
festation of invisible intelligence and power. He took j<j
hold of my own index finger, for instance, and placing j)j
the bare end thereof upon a slate, he caused it to jd
exhibit a chirographic capacity which I certainly was hi
not previously aware it possessed.
Another circle was held by Mr. Powell last evening, jci
at which even greater power was exhibited by the isi
controlling spirit than upon the first evening. Tecumseh, j)j
as he designates himself, desired a lady to place her glove j (j
upon her hand, and, taking hold of it, he wrote with Kj
her gloved finger, with very nearly the same facility j)i
as when uncovered. And, toward the close of the jsj
evening, taking the slate in the medium’s hand, i>j
Tecumseh said he would give us a double write, which kj
he did with the medium’s finger, and which, when jsj
completed, consisted of a brief communication, in which j)j
the up and down strokes of every letter were double, jsj
These were certainly most wonderful manifestations, j)j
and to be accounted for, it seems to me, upon no other j?j
hypothesis than the one claimed.
Prior to writing, in almost every instance the spirit i>j
places the finger of his medium, or other finger to be jsl
used, upon the forehead of some one present, and like- jsj
wise waves it to and fro through the atmosphere. j)j
This is done, it is claimed, for the purpose of accumulat- jsj
ing the requisite material for the construction of the sub- j)j
stance used as a substitute for the pencil in writing. How |( j
TUALIST. 131
this may be, I am unable to say; but certainly som
substance seemingly had been accumulated under the
end of my finger when writing which felt like a minute
grain of sand, with which the strokes upon the slate were
apparently effected. However these phenomena may be
produced, they are exceedingly interesting, and should
strike the sceptical mind, it seems to me, as wonderfully
illustrative of the presence of an invisible but intelligent
agency.
“ Jurodivt —Not only does the vast majority of
Russian peasants believe firmly in witchcraft, as we
lately showed, but the name of its superstitions is
legion. There is scarcely a village in Russia without
its “Jurodivi,” or inspired idiot, its ‘‘Kaldunja,” or
sorceress, and its “ Klikusha,” a hysterical screaming
woman, subject to fits, who is an especial object of fear
and reverence to her neighbours. A strange illness,
attributed by some of the most eminent Russian
pathologists to the effect produced upon the nerves by
all these silly superstitions, has made its appearance in
several provinces of the Empire among the hardy and
robust rural populations. No efficacious method has as
yet been devised for treating this malady, which
generally culminates in insanity. The village popes
regard it with indifference, and make no effort
to discourage the demoralising credulity in which
it originates. The district surgeons shrug their
shoulders over it, and confess their inability to compre¬
hend the phenomena of its genesis and incubation.
Meanwhile, it appears to be rapidly spreading, and
largely recruiting the ranks of the “ Chlisti,” a fana¬
tical sect which practises fasting and self-castigation
with the most shocking results to its followers—
especially to those of the female sex. It is obvious
that a practical and thoroughgoing system of popular
education alone can grapple with and subdue these
unwholesome tendencies of the Russian peasantry, and
that, even were such a system introduced with promp¬
titude and energy, more than one generation must pass
away ere any appreciable progress can be effected in
the intellectual and moral emancipation of the moujik.
—Daily Telegraph.
“ The Light of Asia.”—Many will remember the
straighforward testimony given to the Dialectical
Society, by Mr. Edwin Arnold, about Spiritualism,
and be pleased to hear how well his admirable latest
work is received by the ,public. The Athenceum states
that “ Mr. Edwin Arnold, whose poem, ‘ The Light of
Asia,’ has passed through two editions here, and eight
in America,” has received a letter from the King of
Siam—together with the Order of the White Elephant
—dated Grand Palace, Bangkok, Dec. 5, 1879, in
which his Majesty says:—“ I feel much gratitude to
those who like yourself teach Europeans to hold our
religion in respect. I thank you for the copy of your
poem, ‘ The Light of Asia,’ presented to me through
my Minister in London. I am not a sufficiently good
scholar to judge English poetry, but as your work is
based upon the similar source of our own information,
I can read it through with very much pleasure, and I
can say that your poem, ‘The Light of Asia,’ is the
most eloquent defence of Buddhism that has yet ap¬
peared, and is full of beautiful poetry; but I like
Book Second very much, and am very much interested
in the final sermon. To mark my opinion of your
good feeling towards Eastern peoples, and my ap¬
preciation of your high ability and the service you
have done to all Buddhists by this defence of their
religion, I have much satisfaction in appointing you
an officer of our most exalted Order of the White
Elephant.”
132
THE SPIRI'TUALIST.
March 12, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Bg the late Wm.'Gregoey, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER Is—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage-
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar' Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV :—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
.CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI {—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
Or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER XAn Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—^Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER xni r—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep-
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XTV {—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV {—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI {—Curative Agency of Mesmwism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved, in Iho
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the^Quarterli/ Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
he unable to bear out tho imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena :—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I [speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two scawces because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable ^people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
March 12, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse Or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes 5 but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers. No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
jOlALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
I. in- Spiritualism, by Christian. Rcimers. One
Shilling.
K. W. Allen, Avc Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.,
rTEA MEETING AND CONFER-
JL ENCE at G, Field View, London Fields, E., on
Sunday, March 7 th. Tea, 5 o’clock. Tickets, which
must be obtained before date, Is. each. Conference,
subject for consideration, “ The Promotion of Spiri¬
tualism and the Prevention of Exposures.” 6.30.
Admission Free. C. R. Williams, Sec.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or ore about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for 1 Jd; or six copies post free for 6d.
T>APHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
JLli SENQER AND EPIIEMKRIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, ar.d all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, andjudge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: 9. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion of spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, dally. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ 8. C., ’ care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris. 
npHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C,
Price 3s, 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Postfree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the .
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“OI Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Richmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit, Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Oloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. ———
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life qf Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To Y ou who Loved Me. By Florence Marry at
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougali
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
Bv Edwin Lee, M.D.,.
Corresponding member of the Medical Academic;
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin arid
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society fo-.
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, S3,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—Vll.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Garda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XTV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXI11.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
13 EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JLt psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and tho Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V:—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible' Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 124, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instmetions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
800 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should he multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to‘‘drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con¬
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 12, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
USE
ENO S FRUIT SALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face. Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,',Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
l^NO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
JlU Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
Q AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
•X-k. ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
■jCTAQ-GrED, WEARY AND WORN
JL OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injuiious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
m tire house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “Aftersuf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—Anewin-
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CA XJTION.—'Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked “ENO’S FBUIT SALT.” Without,you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2*. 9d. and is. 6d,
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The',Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejato Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30, The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in areview nearly a column long, says.—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. , . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be, photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
OW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
March, 1880. j [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGrIOAL REVIEW.
A Monthly Magazine.
■ CONTENTS.
The present position and future needs of Spiritualism
in England ; M.A. (Oxon)—Kiddle’s Spiritual Com¬
munications—Exposures of Spiritualism; Dr. Nicholls
—Two Views of Spiritualism; M.A. (Oxon)—A Needed
Lesson; Georgina Houghton—Extracts from a Spirit¬
ualist’s diary ; A. M. H. Watts—The last Words of
James Nayler, the Quaker Martyr, 1660—Notes and
Gleanings—Lessons in a School of Life—Victorien
Sardon, the French Dramatist—The Message of Spirit,
nalism to the Criminal—Higher Aspects of Spiritual¬
ism—Poetry—A Psalm of the March Winds; J. T.
Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“Asa dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that ms descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he i p-
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
CONTENTS.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free 7}d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
npHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
-L SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY., Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F.' Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals op the British National Association op
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, S3,
Museum-street, London, W.0> .
The Beneficent Hauntings in County Mayo   121
The Key to Theosophy, By George Wyld, M.D. 12?
Correspondence :—The Knock Apparitions   126
A Curious Legend  127
Mr. Thomas Lake Harris 127
Mr, Thomas W alker’s Medium-
- ship     127
The Abnormal Movements of Solid Objects  127
The Irish Lourdes  127
The Phantom Blacksmith   129
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in the Dutch Indies... 130
“ Jurodivi ”    131
“ The Light of Asia”   131
Psychography   131
Printed for the Proprietor Ly Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.O., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
