Registered as a Newspaper,
$;Kf) joUf{XSi< ^^YdSo^o^idS^ ^di^KCsi.
&§£ #lfresf toH^ Spniwalbm m C&xmi §nfam*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosquc 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 276.—(VOL. XL—No. 23.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1877.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontenta.
The Views of the Theosophists. By Colonel Henry S.
in* Olcott, President of the Theosophioal Society of New
York     265
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism  267
A Case of-Clairvoyance in Boston     267
Dr. Slade in Berlin 268
Poetry:—Poetry and Philosophy ...  268
The Healing Powers of Mesmerism.' By S. E. De Morgan 269
Dr. Slade and a Danish Professor ... ...   269
The Santiam Haunted House     269
Rifts in the Veil....  ' 270
Dr. Carpenter’s Prepossessions. By J. R. Buchanan, M.D. 270
Form Manifestations. By Hensleigh Wedgwood, M.R.I... 271
Mrs. Victoria Woodhull in London 271
Test Materialisation Seance with Mr. W. Eglinton 272
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Seances
for Inquirers 272
Correspondence:— Slate-Writing Phenomena — Specula¬
tions on Reincarnation—What are the Psychological
Effects of Anaesthetics?—A Spiritualistic School—
Form Manifestations—Physical Manifestations—A
Message through Writing Mediumship—The Un¬
known in Mediumship—The Library of the National
Association of Spiritualists—The Experimental Re¬
search Committee of the National Association of
Spiritualists—Antiquity and Now—What Truth is
there in Astrology ?—Form Manifestations 273
Clairvoyance. By the Late William Gregory, M.D.,
F.R.S.E   276
A Seance in Prison 276
Answers to Correspondents  ... ... 276
Paragraphs:—A Chinese Funeral, 267 ; Brixton Psycho¬
logical Society, 271; The Picture in the Eyes of Dying
Animals, 27 J.; Evil Spiritual Influx, 271; Mr. and
Miss Dietz, 271.; Mr. Colville’s Meetings, 271; Dr.
Slade in Berlin   ...276
NEW AND ELEGANT GIFT-BOOKS FOR THE SEASON.
RIFTS IN THE YEIL.
A collection of poems and of prose essays by Spiritualists,
and of inspirational communications through mediums.
Crown 8vo. Richly gilt. Will be published in time for pre¬
sentation as a New Year’s gift-book. Price five shillings.
THE LAZY LAYS.
Widely recognised by the press, including the Morning
Post, Graphic, and Court Journal, as one of the most elegant
and amusing gift-books of the season. Just published. Crown
8vo. Richly gilt Price 7s. 6d.
In order to put many copies of the latter book into circula¬
tion rapidly, and in order to furnish Spiritualists with two
good new gift-books at moderate rates, the above books will
be supplied at 10s. 6d. the two, post free, to all who order both
before Rifts in the Veil is pubhshed. The Lazy'.Lays will
then be forwarded immediately on receipt of the order and
remittance, and will serve as a Christmas gift-book, whilst
Rifts in the Veil will follow, in time for New Year’s day.
After the publication of [Rifts in the Veil, The Lazy Lays
will be obtainable only at 7s. 6d., its present tprice also when
purchased singly.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Spiritualism. — mr. Alfred Wal¬
lace’s Reply to Dr. CARPENTER appears in Fraser's
Magazine for December.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
rf'c., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from,-or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address 0.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormend-street, W.C,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for December, 1877.
Friday, Ith.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 8th.—Trance Address at 4 p.m. Mr. W. J.
Colville.
Monday, lOi/t—Fort sightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.30 for 8 p.m.
Tuesday, Uth.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, lith.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Medium,
Mr. Eglinton.
Friday, 14£7t.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Monday, Vith.—House and Offiies Committee, at 5 p.m.
Soiree Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
Tuesday, l%th.—Trance Address, at 8 p.m. Mr. W. J.
Colville.
Wednesday, X8th.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 21s#.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Friday, 2Sth.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of the Association will be closed from December
24th to December 26 th, inclusive.
THE BEADING BOOM AND LIBBABY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary. Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
 E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughboeough-eoad-north, Beixton.
,The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
LANGHAM HALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London. W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjects chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved, Is.
W L. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington. London, N.     
SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION.—The advertiser
is prepared to undertake the entire education of a young
gentleman intended for one of the scientific professions.
Special attention given to Chemistry, Metallurgy and
Electricity. Use of a Laboratory and Scientific Instruments.
Address X., Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Me. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary
 Willesden, N.W. 
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE SOUL, AND HOW IT FOUND ME ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
 Tinsley Bbothebs, Publishers.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SEBIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
R¥tCHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
late William Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E. 455 pp.,
demy 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science. .
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. Au
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18e, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fcc.;
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.O]
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCRQFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 7, 1877
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., C, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 62, Warwick-squ&re, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, O. C^ Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.Q.
Bogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd.. New Wandsworth. S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
. S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett,Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94 Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Kening'ale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning. A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sbooter’s-hill. Kent.
.Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Bemers-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road.Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Str'awhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redeliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W„ M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipslc, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq,, Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Shear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes;Esq.,33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
at. do BassompUrre, 285, Chauasee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels,
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de TUniori; 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby,.11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq,, M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper GlOucester-piace, Dorset-square,
London Jn.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaC'e, Boston, U.S.A.
MdHe. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris. - .
W. S. Godbe, Esq.,Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A. |
Dr. Grunhiit, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.;HaJlqck, 64, Denhigh-street, Bejgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-stredt, Belgrave-road, S. w»
Signor Damlani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Pdlazzo del Vasto, Chiaja;
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers. „
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool..  .
L’Union Spirlte etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hdh. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton. S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'Espirita Central de I'a Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND,
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc-
tiens in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich, London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
ASTROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. PEARCE, author
of the Weather Guide - Book, &c. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-fitreet, Strand. Sent p'st free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is ; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instraction in Astrology.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modem Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris, Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
Gl, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above.
mr. j. wTItletcher,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
SPIRITUAL HEALING
BY JAMES BEGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQ., LONDON, W.O.
N.B:—Patients desiring personal treatment will pleaso
make appointment in first instance by letter j terms as per
agreement.
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON
 S.W. 
MR, J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At borne from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. —PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at bis
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
w
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-streef,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
Madame llancore, 25, Guiiford-st.,
Russell-square, will hold Seances on Wednesdays,
Fridays and Sundays, at 8, for Music, Clairvoyance, Trance,
Automatic Writing, Tests and advice. Friends and
Spiritualists.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6c?., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, shonld be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &c., &e. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London: J. E. Catty 12
Aye Maria-lane, E.C,
jL til J|| xif mh uf
Volume Eleven. Number Twe^ty-thf^ee.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7th, 1877.
THE VIEWS OF THE THEOSOPHISTS.
BT COLONEL HENRY S. OLCOTT, PRESIDENT OP THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
OP NEW YORK.
Moke than once the editor of The Spiritualist has invited
us Theosophists to enter its hospitable columns, and array
the facts and arguments upon which we rely for the support
of our opinions. This truly liberal spirit merits great com¬
mendation, and we will avail ourselves of the opportunity.
Hitherto we have said little, for silence seemed the better
course until the clamour of our detractors had measurably
subsided. We have been honoured, in this country, with a
degree of notoriety quite beyond our humble desires. By
the united efforts of the press, the pulpit, and the rostrum,
our name and supposed views have been made known to
more people than those of any other society within my re¬
collection. Strangely enough, the Spiritualists, who should
have seen in us their natural allies against the common
enemy, have regarded us as foes, and even charged us with
the design of attempting to split the great body of believers
into warring halves, in the interest of Catholicism. Let
me, as briefly as possible, set forth the claims of Theoso¬
phists :—
1. We accept the doctrine of the immortality of the
human spirit, and the fact of an intercourse between this
world and the next.
2. We believe in the reality of medial phenomena, objec¬
tive and subjective.
3. That mediumship may either be congenitally active or j
latent; in the latter case it may be developed into activity
by effort under favouring conditions.
So far, you see, we are in perfect accord with Spiritualists.
But we do not consider it beneficial to the individual or to |
society to indiscriminately encourage mediumship; for as |
now practised it subjects the sensitive to enormous perils, I
physical, psychological, and moral, and too often begets in
the investigator a blind credulity, which speedily lapses into |
bigotry and dogmatism. Needless for me to cite manifold
examples, when the personal experience of every veteran I
Spiritualist with physical mediums of both sexes, and the I
tone which has pervaded the speeches and writings of many j
public champions of the cause, these past thirty years, need
only be appealed to.
Physical mediums should, in our judgment, be divided I
into two classes—those who are moved by the spirits of the I
departed, and those whose occult phenomena are attributable j
to the agency of their own doubles in concert with other |
potencies. We think that the neglect to so discriminate I
has caused infinite pain to honest mediums, scandal to a
great movement, and disappointment to sincere investi- j
gators.
To properly understand our attitude towards Spiritualists, j
you should first know how we regard Man and Nature. To !
us, Man is a trinity, not a duality; in short, we accept the
philosophy, which is the fundamental doctrine of all Oriental
systems, and equally the basis of the Greek, Roman, and I
other derivatives. Inside the physical body and permeating !
it is an astral body, or soul, and these two are overshadowed
(illuminated and spiritualised) by a third—the divine, im- ]
mortal spirit, the vov?, the ruach. At birth the babe is
but a duality, and becomes a trinity only when reason begins i
to manifest itself—usually at the age of seven years, but i
sometimes earlier. And so, too, Nature has its physical |
side, its vitalising astral soul, and, sublimest of all, its j
eternally-existing, divine spirit.
We believe that the man of flesh dies, decays, and goes j
to the crucible of evolution, to be worked over and over !
again ; that the astral man (or double^ or soul), freed from j
physical imprisonment, is followed by the consequences of I
his earthly deeds, thoughts, and desires. He either becomes [
> j purged of the last traces of earthly grossness, and finally,
! I after an incalculable lapse of time, is joined to his divine
!! spirit, and lives forever as an entity, or, having been com-
I pletely debased on earth, he sinks deeper and deeper into
j matter, and is annihilated. Usually the separation of soul
j and spirit occurs before the bodily death : this is the rule,
j but still there are exceptions. The soul, you perceive, we
j regard as matter, though exceedingly sublimated, and as
| completely subject to the laws of matter as the physical
| body itself.
The attractions of spirit are toward spirit, [hence anta-
| gonistic to those of matter, and thus is the equilibrium of all
| things maintained. The man of pure life and spirituality of
| aspiration, one would logically say, would be drawn towards
I a more spiritual realm than this earth of ours, and repelled
I by its influence. Vice versa, he whose life has been a revel,
| a debauch, a scramble of sordid ambitions, a field for the exer-
| cise of cruelty and injustice, has no post-mortem attractions
j except to the earth, and would not, if he could (which he
| cannot) leave it. From a being thus brutalised, the divine,
i immortal spirit has shrunk in horror, and death finds the
| man but a duality, of which one part goes into the ground to
| rot, the other wanders in and about the habitations of men,
j obsessing sensitives, to glut vicariously its depraved appe-
| tites, until its life is burnt out by their very intensity, and
| dissolution comes to crown the direful career. These earth-
| bound souls, these that the Romans called the larvce, are the
j “ Elementaries ” of the Theosophical Society, of which so
| much has been said with so little understanding. They are
j called elementaries, because, being naught but matter
! drawn from the elements, they ultimately return to those
| sources.
The u Elementals ” are quite another thing. What, in
I common parlance, are termed u the forces of nature,” Oriental
| philosophy designates as beings to which we, in common
| with the masters whom we have studied, have applied the
| name “ elemental ” spirits. As intelligent Spiritualists
| know, the Eastern philosophies teach the doctrine of an
evolution far more complete than that of our contemporary
science. It has no “ hiatus,” no “ impassable chasm,” no
i( missing link.” The spiritual, equally with the physical
side of the cosmos, has shaped itself in obedience to this
primal impulse. In the effort to produce the master-piece,
the Inner Man, lower astral forms have been evolved, as, in
physical nature, from the mollusc up to the lecturer on proto¬
plasm (chef d?oeuvre of the visible universe), the chain of
being has a million links. In the line of astral evolutions,
the elementals have their place, and, as the apex commands
all the lower parts of the pyramid, so man, by virtue of his
position, has natural dominion over all beneath himself.
But as mediumship, clairvoyance, and other qualities, have
most commonly to be brought out and trained, so this
power to rule subordinate beings has in most cases to be
gained by man through initiation. He must first learn to
subdue his physical self, and then other victories will be com¬
paratively easy. The perfect initiate has absolute dominion
over those errant, unthinking, soulless forces of nature, and
with their help can do what common men call miracle. Of
I themselves they have no more desire to harm than to help
| us, and are no more responsible for their actions than the
| wind that blows, the fire that burns, the flood that devas-
| tales. They are the force of the wind, the fire, the flood. They
| are the creatures of immutable law, and man, in employing
I them, but uses them in obedience to the same \ aiding nature,
I as Mme. Blavatsky says in her book, but never impeding it.
I We Theosophists totally deny the possibility of miracle.
Jesus pertinently said that an evil tree cannot bring forth
j good fruit. We apply this rule to immoral and intemperate
I mediums, promiscuous circles, dark seances, and physical
266
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 7,1877.
mediumship in general. The laws of polarity, in our judg¬
ment, make it absurd to expect that any pure disembodied
spirit can come into, or near, or influence directly one of
those mediums who have been teaching and living impurely,
or among inquirers who perchance enter the circle flushed
with strong drink, or steaming with the atmosphere of some
demoralising association. Evil influences are alone drawn
towards such magnets ; and we firmly believe that the whole
range of physical phenomena, from rapping to full-form
presentations, are manifestations of the power of either earth-
bound elementaries, helped by elementals, or the souls of
the mediums themselves, acting transcorporeally with or with¬
out the help of elementals.
To apply this theory, tests of the assumed identity of the
communicating intelligence, such as are constantly being
received by inquirers, may be given by the medium’s soul,
or by an u elementary,” either one seeing the facts in
the memory of the inquirer, in his surroundings, or in the
stream of his family history, with which he is as directly
connected as one bend of a river with the next bend
above, or any other beyond it up stream. The medium’s
physical brain may be either conscious or unconscious in such
a case. Slade’s slate-writing comes under the same rule.
The “spirit-hand” that is often shown at his table is almost
certainly his own astral hand. Miss Kislingbury’s highly
instructive experience with Watkins, a greater slate-writer
even than Slade, seems to warrant the application of the
same hypothesis to him. The Katie King of Miss Florence
Cook may have been her own double or soul; in fact, I am
quite sure it could not have been an elementary, since I am
assured that she was a young girl of unblemished character.
Her body being asleep, or barely active under the feeble
power of the life-principle, her double was free to move
about, talk, seem and act like an independent being. Other
cases that I constantly see reported in The Spiritualist come
within the same category, and hereafter may be touched
upon. Suffice it for the present to say that I do not think
that a single one of the materialised forms to which your
circles have given names is that of a pure human spirit, but
all are either the medium’s doubles, or their emanations
worked into animated statues, and caused to behave like
living beings. How wise or foolish in utterances, how con¬
strained or boisterous in behaviour, how gentle, rough, kind,
or malicious in disposition, depends upon the state of
medium and circle, physical, mental, and moral. The
mightiest question that your inquirers, with such oppor¬
tunities as they possess, can solve, is that of the powers of
the embodied human soul. Probe it with the divining rod of
mesmerism. The earnest student of psychology owes a debt
of gratitude to Mr. Harrison for bringing out his edition of
Gregory’s great book. I read the work more than twenty
years ago, and gained knowledge from it that has served me
well in all my inquiries into the phenomena of mediumship.
But, let me say, that important as it is, the mesmerism of
which it gives us glimpses is a nothing beside that phase of
the science known and practised in the Indian pagodas and
brotherhoods through untold centuries. The examples I
have not merely read about but seen, so far exceed the belief
of unprepared European investigators, that I shrink from the
narration, lest my testimony be discredited. The little I
have said in print already has, I learn, caused Dr. Carpenter
to tax me with credulity while admitting my apparent
honesty.
About other mediumship than physical—the agency by
which physical phenomena are produced—I have said
nothing. We thoroughly concede the action of pure dis¬
embodied human spirits in the sublime phrases of inspiration,
prophecy, trance-vision, and direct writing. But not in all
cases; far from it. The medium’s soul may manifest its |
power in all these, as may also the elementaries. Given an j
innocent, unworldly, spiritually-minded medium, a select
circle of harmonious minds actuated by the same holy im¬
pulse, and the chances are largely in favour of the intellectual
phenomena being produced by the pure denizens of the inner
world. Judge this tree, like the others, by its fruits. And
for the sake of logic and consistency do not call the vapid dis- j
courses and writings of any medium whatever the outpour- |
ings of spirit wisdom. “ Le bon vin n’a pas besoin j
d’enseigne.” Bacon and Shakespeare, to say nothing of my !
! j old friend Judge Edmonds, and my old chemical teacher,
I | Professor Mapes, have not degenerated into idiots.
Hi Depend upon it, it is better for everybody to have no circles
| | except in the light, no phenomena without test conditions,
| | no mediums who are at the mercy of every chance moral
| | leper who has a sovereign to spend. Place your medium
! j above the risk of starvation, and isolate him from the
j impure, or expect a continuance of just what we have de¬
ll plored, often blushed for, these thirty years.
Theosophists learn from their studies that temperance and
I | a chaste life are absolutely indispensable for him who would
ju be initiated into the higher wisdom. I see its results among
| | our o'$n number, and speak by the book. Not one of us but
Ii has been made better and happier by it, while in some a marked
j( reformation in thought and deed has been effected. From
II the beginning of our society we made it the imperative rule
j that no free-lover should be tolerated in our fellowship. In
{ the Oriental religions there is no abomination of a vicarious
|| atonement. Man is taught that he must save himself (/nm
j annihilation)^ and so we who also profess them are led to aspire
to a better living than we thought necessary under Christian
tutelage. Did you ever understand what Jesus meant in
j saying that a man could lose his Psuche (Matt. xvi. 26)? Note,
j please, his soul, not his vov? (immortal spirit) ; that cannot
! be lost, for it is eternal and immortal. It will illuminate
| you and me as long as we preserve our entity, until our soul
I or astral double is lost—annihilated, dispersed. I leave it to
I Spiritualists to say whether Theosophists influence society
| for good or evil.
While we discourage mediumship, except under the most
| favourable conditions, we highly approve of the cultivation
j of the will power under all conditions. Mediumship
| exacts passivity, receptivity to evil as well as good influences.
I I have seen pure women debased and pure men ruined by
j their “ spirit bands.” The human will,-on the other hand,
| is the greatest of all forces. Have faith in one’s self, and,
j as Jesus said, the adept can move mountains. Before the
| sovereign will of the truly great soul, empire plays the
j courtier, and mankind bows in ready submissiveness. See
j what the will of the mesmeriser does with his subject, and
I fancy what the adept of India, Thibet, and Ceylon can do by
j profiting by the instruction of twenty millenniums of sages !
He needs no “ guide ” or “ control ” but his own luminous
spirit.
I may be told that real or supposititious spirits some¬
times declare to their mediums that immortality is the com¬
mon heritage of all men; that evolution is not a fact in the
spiritual side of the universe; that the elementaries all
finally become purified of sin ; and that there are no such
things as elementals fixed within the limits of their several
kingdoms. Well, my answer is that until the laws of spirit-
intercourse with us are understood and the phenomena
wholly brought within control, the less use made of such
testimony the better. Who cares to offset the asseverations of
such unverified and unverifiable witnesses against the accu-
I( mulated experience of thousands of trained seers, not
mediums, not controlled, but able to sound the profoundest
depths of nature, and who have sounded it. This very day
the earnest truth-seeker may find in the far East the proofs
of the doctrines I have enumerated. There are the facts,
go and collate them; they will no more come to Great
| Russell-street than the pearls of Ceylon or the leaves of the
i letter-tree of Kounboum.
One word more before I close. We affirm that the indis-
| criminate attainment of immortality would be contrary to the
analogies of nature and repugnant to the idea of strict justice.
I Everywhere, as Darwin and Wallace and their compeers
have shown us, the universal law of the “ survival of the
fittest” prevails. There are positively no exceptions, the
rule is imperative. Shall, then, this eternal scheme of the
| universe, which applies to physical man no less than to the
animal and plant, be interrupted with respect to the spiritual
man or astral human soul? Is this logical? We answer
that it is not; and our interpretation of the saying of the
initiated Jesus—that the “ Kingdom of Heaven” must be
| taken by “ violence,” is that he who would perpetuate his
j individual existence through the aeons must win the im-
I mortal crown. This is the secret of the aspiration of the
! Buddhist for Nirvana, of the Brahman for Moksha; and
267
i)EO. 7, 1877.
THE SPIEITITALIST.
their dread of metempsychosis rests upon the esoteric idea
that the particles of the brutalised soul, when dispersed,
will be used over a myriad times by the deft workwoman
Nature, in future evolutions of animal forms.
I shall know by the comments that will be made upon
this article how successfully I have explained the main
features of the theosophical doctrine. It would not be fair
to expect that with such brevity I could fully elucidate them,
or even touch upon the many minor topics that it embraces.
I hope that at least I have shown that we believe:—
1. That personal immortality is potential, not inevitable.
2. That mediumistic physical phenomena are not pro¬
duced by pure spirits, but by “souls” embodied or dis¬
embodied, and usually with the help of elementals.
3. That “ elementaries ” are impure, disembodied, perish¬
able human souls, and “elementals” the forces of nature.
4. That mediumship means passivity; and adeptship, or
the magical power, its opposite—activity ; the former condi¬
tion one of peril, and to be shunned except under the very
best conditions, the latter the reverse.
5. That a pure life and total abstinence from, drink are
indispensable to the exercise of the magical power and the
acquisition of spiritual truth. I should add that a diet of
vegetables is also exacted in Eastern countries of aspirants
for initiation.
6. That we Theosophists of the inner ring adhere to the
Oriental religious philosophies as better guides to happiness
than Christian theology, better teachers of science than the
Aristotelian methods of our modern physicists.
For the information of the large number of inquirers in
Europe and elsewhere, from whom I am constantly receiving
inquiries about our society and application to be received
into its fellowship, I beg to say that that body is a strictly
secret one, and there are no vacancies at present. We were
compelled to shut ourselves in so as to pursue our studies
unmolested, and experience is constantly confirming the
wisdom of our policy. A branch is being established in
England, which may or may not make its post-office address
known.
New York, November 17tk, 1877.
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
On Thursday evening, the 29th ultimo, Mr. R. A. March gave the first
of two readings, with critical observations on “ Shakespeare’s Play of
Hamlet, with special reference to the Ghost,” at the rooms of the above
Association, 53, Sigdon-road, Hackney Downs, London, E., under the
presidency of Mrs. Corner.
The reading opened with an account of the origin of the play, which
was supposed to have been founded on a story in an old novel, translated
from the French of Belleforest, entitled The Historic of Hamblet, in black
letter, thought to have been derived from the Historia Danica of Saxo
Grammaticus, who lived in Denmark during the latter part of the twelfth
century, and began his history after 1177. The play was supposed to
have been written as early as 1597, but printed in its present form in
1604. The lecturer next spoke of the sublime language of the tragedy,
teeming with philosophy and metaphysical subtlety, and said that he
who penned it was not writing for his own age alone, but “ for all time.”
No play had been so much the subject of criticism as this had been, and
none had passed through the fiery ordeal of criticism so unscathed.
The lecturer then gave a description of the opening scenes of the play,
after which he proceeded to read portions of the scenes, and he especially
called attention to the fear and horror excited by the first appearance of
the Ghost. He also quoted the following passage:—
Marcellus—We do it wrong, being so majestical,
To offer it the show of violence;
For it is as the air invulnerable,
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
Bernado.—It was about to speak when the cock crew.
Horatio.—And then it started like a guilty thing
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
The cock that is the trumpet to the morn
Does with his lofty shrill-sounding throat
Awake the god of day and at his warning,
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
The extravagant and erring spirit hies
To his confine, and of the truth herein
This present object made probation.
Marcellus.—'It faded on the crowing of the cock.
Some say that ever ’gainst that season comes
Wherein our Saviour’s birth is celebrated
The bird of dawning singeth all night long ;
And then they say no spirit dares stir abroad ;
The nights are wholesome ; then no planets strike,
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
So hallowed and so gracious is the time.
The lecturer, after reading the scene between Hamlet and the ghost,
spoke of the universal belief in the twelfth and later centuries in ghostly
apparitions, quoting the opinion of Mr. Morison, who, in his life of St.
Bernard, observes “ that to disbelieve such phenomena in the twelfth
century would have been considered good prima facie evidence of un¬
soundness of mind; ” and speaking of the fifteenth century, he quoted
Machiavelli, who thought “ the air we breathe to be full of spirits, who,
in compassion to mortals, forewarned them by sinister omens of the
evils about to come to pass.”
After some observations from members present had been replied to by
Mr. March, it was unanimously resolved to adjourn the second reading
to a date to be hereafter announced.
A CASE OF CLAIRVOYANCE IN BOSTON.
A correspondent, under a recent date, favours us with
the following narrative :—
ft At Rochester Hall, Boston, a few weeks ago, a man re¬
lated an experience which, if true, was worthy of record.
Investigation proved it true in detail, as our interview with
the party demonstrated, and the account is briefly this : An
interesting child, six years old, whose parents were Catholics,
residing on Border-street, East Boston, was missing. Friends
and police were looking for but could not find him. A
coloured barber, who took a fancy to the child, and at whose
place he was last seen, was arrested on suspicion of having
kidnapped him. A man who knew the father suggested his
going to a medium. He had no faith, so lost a day; but,
finally, they went together to a well-known test and clair¬
voyant medium of this city, who at once stated to them the
object of their visit, and said the child was drowned. The
father doubted it, as the child was very careful. The medium
said the child was not drowned at the wharf—was in the
mud; she could not see it very well, but gave such descrip¬
tion of locality that the friend could easily find the place.
The father had no faith at all, and was not inclined to follow
it up, and the gentleman’s idea was that he was kidnapped,
so the test—as it proved to be one—could hardly be called
mind-reading. The friend, with another person, however,
went to what he thought was the place indicated, which was
on Sumner-street, and not a long distance from the child’s
residence, where was left by the outer filling of the wharf a
hollow spot where the water came through the loose dirt and
left it again, as the tide rose and fell. There were some
rotten planks and spars or timbers that floated when the
tide was in, and rested in the mud when it was out. The
child was found in the mud, the lumber or spar resting on
him, its weight pressing him there. He had probably fallen
in when the wood was floating, and, as it settled, it crowded
the body in the soft mud beneath it. The locality, time,
and the description were remarkably exact, and, investiga¬
tion showing the facts to be as we have stated, we have
thought it worthy of notice.”—Banner of Light.
Next Friday Mr. and Miss Ella Dietz will give some more public
readings in the Langham Hall, Portland-street, London. Miss Dietz
has a book of poems in the press.
Just before going to press, we have received the current number of
The Dublin University Magazine, containing an interesting article by
Professor W. F. Barrett, entitled, “ The Demons of Derrygonelly.” It
describes the evolution in Ireland of phenomena like those which broke
out spontaneously in the Fox family at Hydesville.
A Chinese Funeral.—The Hartford (Conn.) Evening Post says:—
“The funeral of the wife of the Chinese interpreter, Hwang, was
largely attended Tuesday afternoon. The body was dressed in an
elegant costume of Chinese silk, with the most natural and simple
ornaments, and laid in a plain rosewood coffin. Her bridal wreath of
five years ago was placed over her forehead, and the hands, folded
upon the breast, held a moss rosebud. There was but little adorn¬
ment aside from flowers, of which there was a beautiful assortment,
offered by friends. The plate upon the coffin bore simply the name of
the dead wife, Kwangi Sien Chin, with her age. Beside the coffin
stood her portrait in oil, which was painted in China. The Rev. Mr.
Gage conducted a simple Christian service, reading from the Bible
various appropriate selections, adding a few remarks. The bearers
were Mr. Young Yau Poo, the assistant commissioner; Mr. Lew
Keep Chin, the principal of the Chinese school; Professor William M.
Gage, and Mr. James L. Stevens. Mr. Kwang held his child during
the ceremony, and at the cemetery the little one remained beside the
grave as the coffin was lowered, and the last prayer and last selections
f rom the Bible were read, while many friends threw tributes of flowers
upon the coffin. Kwang Ki Chin is a gentleman of unusual education
and culture, and a faithful student of Confucius. The blow has fallen
heavily upon him, and the entire circumstance is fraught with
touching and forcible suggestions to those who are ready to observe
them,”
268
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 7, 1877.
DR. SLADE IN BERLIN.
{Translatedfrom the <£ Berliner Fremdenblatt.’’)
I felt anxious to see Dr. Slade again, and decided on
going into his room, with Dr. C. As we proceeded to ex¬
plain to him our object and our wishes, he interrupted us by
saying that it was absolutely out of his power to accede to
our request, without consulting the influence which con¬
trolled him. We were desired, therefore, once more to place
our hands on the table while the former experiment of en¬
deavouring to obtain writing on a slate was tried. In¬
stantly the scratching sound of a pencil was heard, and
when raps indicated that the communication was finished,
we clearly deciphered the following sentences :—“ It is not
jn our power to give you the information to-day, but come
back to-morrow, and you will have news of your friends, re¬
garding whose fate you will soon receive some decisive in¬
telligence by letter. At this moment we see a friend
employed in writing to you.”
This had a very suspicious appearance to me. “ Spirits
who need twenty-four hours for consideration,” I thought,
“ must have something very earthly and human about
them.”
At this moment Dr. Slade exclaimed, “ I see a man;”
and he gave a description apparently so accurate of the face
visible to him, that Dr. C. recognised it with evident terror
as that of his missing friend. On producing a portrait from
his pocket-book, it was admitted by the medium to be a
likeness of the man he had seen, and of whose safety he
further professed himself perfectly convinced, after what had
occurred. Well, you may be certain that after this we did
not hesitate about paying another visit, as suggested. The
hour was one o’clock, on the 7th of November. Dr. C., who
is the master of a school, was compelled to go home in the
interval, but a very respectable librarian, a well-known
sceptic, was deputed by him to take his place, and acquaint
him immediately, by letter, of all that transpired. The
picture of the missing man was laid on the table; our hands
were linked for a time, and Dr. Slade instantly commenced ij|
to shudder violently. Again the slate and minute piece of it }
pencil were held under the edge, and the writing commenced ! j
as before. On removing the slate we found the following | |
message, which was communicated to Dr. C. the same day : j j
“ We come to you with news of the young man ; his god- j j
father is present, and tells me the young man is safe and | |
well; no harm has befallen him. His father will receive a j !
letter from him in a few days. This is all we can tell you of I j
him now ; as the most you wished to learn was to know he I j
was safe. We shall try to make him successful in life, and I |
help him to return again to the home of his affectionate | !
father.” j j
I felt desirous of pursuing the subject so as to be able to I j
communicate the result to my readers. I |
What surprised me most was the delight Dr. Slade ex- ]} I
pressed at the complying humour of the spirits.
On one occasion Dr. Slade threw himself into a mesmeric i I
sleep, during which he spoke about the young man as if all | j
he were uttering were a divine revelation. To me it seemed I j
to be a humbug, somewhat similar to self-mesmerisation, |) |
and I resolved on putting his alleged power to the proof, j j
With this object I placed in his hands a portrait of my ijl
daughter, who had attained her seventh year, and he de- I !
picted the condition of the poor little nervous, weakly child |}j
so accurately that I thanked God when he finished by ij
stating that with great care she would yet develope into a ||j
clever and able woman. ||
At my fifth stance I took with me two distinguished I
gentlemen of position, to whom I acted as interpreter. The !
medial power of one was immediately recognised by Dr. 1}
Slade, and made apparent to us, for on two clean slates being ||
placed in his hands, with a minute piece of pencil between !)
them, some writing was given us immediately, while Dr. ||
Slade’s hands were visible to all on the table. All this, and !(
much more, I can testify to having seen. It is not my duty I)
to expatiate either on the improbability of the truth of ji
Spiritualism or on its probability. This is a task which H
devolves on our scientific authorities. On them it isincum-
bent, while so phenomenal a specimen of humanity dwells ||
among us, to probe the subject to the bottom, and decide i(
! whether it is a mere swindle, or whether we are on the verge
| of discovering some hitherto mysterious force which may be
| utilised for the benefit of mankind. At present we [are
i dealing with an enigma which we can only trust our scien-
| tific men will endeavour to recognise as such, and, if possible,
| to solve so that the world may be the better for their labours.
We are given to understand that Professor Birchow is about
| to undertake an investigation, and expect soon to learn that a
| subject which has long seemed inexplicable to us, is capable
| of an easy and satisfactory solution.
Thus concludes the account of our correspondent, and we
| have but to subjoin that every reliance may be placed on
I his truthfulness, and that we, on our part, entirely concur
| in the opinion that it is absolutely necessary for our scientific
| men to undertake the investigation of Spiritualism seriously,
j and cease to make an exhibition of their own folly and
I frivolity by pronouncing it a swindle and a delusion.
Mr. Slade does not want for visitors who are earnestly
desirous of witnessing his manifestations, and they all quit
him with a certain degree of faith in his powers—with such
puzzled expressions as,11 There are no such things as spirits,
of that I am confident, nevertheless there is certainly some¬
thing in this, and what can it all mean, &c.” ?
With regard to spirits, there have been Spiritualists for
the last hundred years, but they have not advanced an iota
towards proving the existence of such beings. Here, how¬
ever, we have something palpable and tangible. A piece of
pencil writes without apparent aid from human hand between
two slates placed closely together! By what means or by
what power does the pencil write ? And how is it that it
never by any chance writes in the German character, though
we so frequently obtain sentences in other languages ? Again,
how are stools and chairs upset, people elevated, and tables
moved before our eyes ? These matters are well worthy a
searching examination, and if they can be accounted for by
purely natural cases, then Spiritualism must be consigned
eternally with all other humbugs, to the realms of im¬
posture.
Stints.
POETRY AND PHILOSOPHY.
“ II faut choisir ; il faut §tre un poete ou philosophe!”—Consuelo.
I love them both! And must I make my choice ?
Can I not follow fair Philosophy,
Yet sometimes listen to the Muse’s voice,
When the heart longs to speak—and thou art nigh ?
Oh, hid mo never banish the loved tone
That whispers to our nature, softly sweet,
With power to touch the heart with plaintive moan,
Or tell of tales where love and battle meet,
Or purest impulse of the soul to greet.
And never hid me to forget the lore,
Unfolding to my gaze fair Nature’s page j
Still be my guides unto the distant shore,
The poet’s heart, the wisdom of the sage!
Wisdom that scorns the poet’s tenderness,
That cannot love the beautiful and bright,
And is not moved with pity for distress,
Hath never read the page of Nature right!
And Genius, that would scorn the lowly way
That leads to truth, although by thousands trod,
Should humble violet twine with haughty bay
And learn from children how to soar to God.
(t There’s worldly wisdom, and there’s poesy’s art,
Both of this earth; but, in their nobler sphere,
The sisters twain may teach the erring heart,
Reclaim from guilt, and guide in love and fear.”
Desmond G. Fitzgerald (From Household Words).
Mr. F. W. Perclval intends leaving London on Monday next for
a tour in Greece and Asia Minor, and he will not return to England
until the end of January.
Miss Mattie A. Houghton, clairvoyant medium, has arrived in this
country, bearing letters of recommendation from Mr. Luther Colby,
editor of The Banner of Light, who says “ she is an excellent clairvoyant
physician.”
The Cologne Gazette contains the following:—“ On the 24th No¬
vember the Postmaster-General, Stephan, had the honour of showing
the telephone to the Emperor in the royal palace, and of making ex¬
periments with it by removing the instruments to the most distant
rooms. His Majesty took the most lively interest in all details, and
observed to the Postmaster-General, ‘If you had made this in¬
strument five hundred years ago, you would have been burnt as a
wizard.’ ”
Dec. 7, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
269
THE HEALING- POWERS OF MESMERISM.
BY S. E. DE MORGAN.
About twenty-five years ago, after I had found from many
experiences that I possessed the healing power in a con¬
siderable degree, many persons asked me to help them.
Among others, for whom I experimented, was the mother of
a baby ten weeks old. This young woman, Susan Childs,
was the sister of our cook, who told me, when she brought
news of the baby's birth, that it had no power to hold up its
feet; that the doctor did not know what to do with it; and
that, unless it should gain strength, it would never be able
to walk. From time to time I heard from the cook that
Susan’s child was no better, and when it was ten weeks old
the doctor sent her with it to the Orthcepedic Hospital. On
returning thence she brought the baby to my house, bring¬
ing also splints and bandages, which had been given her as
the only means of restoration. She asked me to show her
how to put these on; and while I was thinking how that
could best be done, for the baby was very small for its age,
it occurred to me to mesmerise the little legs. The child was
sound asleep the whole time in its mother's arms.
After I had made two or three passes, Mrs. Childs said
that she saw beams of light from my fingers resting on the
baby’s legs. She said it made her feel sleepy to look at
them, and was turning her head away, when she observed
that the little feet were moving up into their proper position
at right angles with the legs. This movement began at
about the sixth pass, and went on quickly till the feet were
in their right place. The time the process really occupied
was not more than three minutes, but I went on a few
minutes longer to give strength. The bandages and other
coverings were taken back to the hospital, and the cure was
permanent, as the child ran alone at ten months.
Three or four persons were present and saw the effect of
the passes. Both mother and child were, I imagine, sensi¬
tives. The mother had had several predictive dreams, two
or three of which her sister had told me before their fulfil¬
ment. They were occurrences of no importance, and would
only be useful as showing that dreams of this sort ought
rather to be held in the light of unconscious clairvoyance—
a curious phenomenon—than as revelations from above,
having a special purpose.
One other case I may mention. A strong, healthy fisher¬
man had been struck by lightning while dredging for
oysters. One hand was useless, and the fingers looked
perfectly white. As I passed my hand down his arm, the
colour was seen coming into the hand and fingers. On the
second occasion he wasable to use his hand and arm, and
after the third time the strength was quite restored. He
rowed twenty miles in the regatta, and won the boatman’s
prize. As this man had had two doctors at home, had been
to the County Hospital, and had had every sort of external
application to his arm, why, if the influence is only mental
and subjective, should a few passes by a mesmeriser have a
rapid effect on the body which none of the remedies in
which he had full faith could produce. It is possible—I
think by no means certain—that galvanism might have been
effective in this case; but this would only prove that a
power similar in its effects to galvanism, but infinitely more
strong and subtle, produces the healing effects; and then
what becomes of expectation and subjectivity ?
If we once acknowledge the fact that a real emanation
takes place, all the phenomena of mediumship become intel¬
ligible. The writing is the result of an emanation from the
medium, quickened and directed by the unseen spirit. The
raps are produced in somewhat the same way; the emana¬
tion from the medium forming the recipient of the vitalising
spirit ray. The one is negative to the other, and thus the
raps or sparks are formed.
Till very lately I have been puzzled how to apply this
theory to materialisation ; but, if Mr. Colley, Mr. Stainton-
Moses, and Mr. Blackburn have not been mistaken in what
they believe they saw—and some experience of my own fully
confirms theirs—the materialised form is composed of an
emanation from the medium, vivified by the influence—also
an emanation—of the spirit. This formation of the figure
from the two different sources would account for the partial
resemblance to the medium and for other seeming dis¬
crepancies.
I believe that the facts I have hinted at might lead
to the knowledge of very important and widely extending
principles;
DR. SLADE AND A DANISH PROFESSOR.
Scientific men may make great discoveries, and gain
great names, by plodding work in well-marked grooves, but
when they begin to feel it their duty to testify to unpopular
truths, nine out of ten of them prove to be made of very
poor stuff, as amply proved by the past history of Spirit¬
ualism.
Mr. Simmons writes to us:—
“ In a letter from Mr. Neergaard, received while we were
in Brussels, he said that Professor Lorenz was very anxious
to see Dr. Slade, and had begged Mr. Neergaard to inform
him of his arrival at Fuglsang. We arrived there on Thurs¬
day, October 4th. On the following Saturday the Professor
came to Fuglsang, and remained till the following Monday.
“ During his stay there he had two sittings with Dr.
Slade, and expressed a desire to see more.
il Accordingly Mr. Neergaard engaged Dr. Slade to come
here [Copenhagen], and to give Professor Lorenz at least
ten sittings. As soon as this arrangement was effected, Mr.
Neergaard wrote to the Professor, informing him where he
would find Dr. Slade, &c.
P Mr. Neergaard received his reply after we left Fuglsang,
telling him that his time was too fully occupied. Up to the
present time we have seen nothing of him.”
Professor Helmholtz refused M. Aksakof s invitation to
investigate the phenomena while Dr. Slade was in Berlin.
THE SANTIAM HAUNTED HOUSE.
Mr. Geo. W. Lawson, of Salem, Oregon, writes as follows to the
Salem (Oregon) Record
Since my article on ghosts, lately published in your paper, several
persons have spoken to me regarding the Jefferson haunted house;
amongst them, Judge J. Quinn Thornton, who, being no modern
Spiritualist, but a good church member, I quote by way of obtaining
credit and character to myself, and the cause I am simple enough to
believe in.
The judge has given me quite a history of the notable building.
He says it was first built at Santiam City ; that in January, 1853, two
men were gambling in it, and that they quarrelled over their cards,
when one seized a butter maul and beat the other to death. That the
murderer was tried in his office in Albany, there being no Court-house
there, and was sentenced to ten years in the penitentiary; that on
account of the house being disturbed it was moved into the country.
Still being disturbed, it was moved again, and once more to its present
place, if it is stiil standing.
He tells me of another incident connected with it that might possibly
have had something to do with the disturbance. Many years ago a
packer was killed and robbed for his money, and a part of the money,
consisting of coin, was buried under that house by one party to the
crime ; and the other buried his part, consisting of gold dust, not far
off, on the bank of a little stream, it being contained in two boot legs.
That the gold dust man was not permitted from fear to go back and dig
up his dust, being made to feel that hundreds of persons were looking
at him if he went near it; that he went to Illinois, to his old home and
family; that he could not rest, and some years after took two of his
sons and returned to Oregon, determined to hunt up the treasure and
to return it to the heirs of the murdered man, feeling that if he could
do so he would be permitted to have peace. That on his return the
trees had been cut away, and the land all fenced, he had great diffi¬
culty in finding the locality of the buried treasure. That they got
permission of the owner to camp in a field, and searched many days
until their conduct excited suspicion in the neighbourhood, and they
were watched, but finally found the place, lilted the treasure, and
through Judge Thornton returned it to the rightful owner. The judge
says that, owing to the confidential relation of client and attorney, he is
not at liberty to disclose the name of his] client, the man who had the
gold dust. Perhaps the coin man never got his, and the dread and fear
found there is the power of the spirit exercised upon all who go in
there, because he wants the money to go to his children; similarly
the fear exercised over the gold dust man drove him finally to
restitution of the money. Perhaps it is also the first man’s shade that
is unquiet.
The Cape Argus (South Africa), Nov. 6th, says:—“ Last week at the
morning market at Aliwal North, several tombstones were put up by an
enterprising Free State dealer in posthumous compliments, but there
was no bidder, and he took the stones away again, muttering that the
place must be barren, indeed, which could not entertain an occasional
death.”
270 r THE SPiRlTlTALIST. Dec. 7, 187t.
“ RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
Under the above title we shall, about the close of this
month, publish a book consisting of choice extracts from
the literature of Spiritualism, some of them given inspira¬
tionally, others written by the authors in the normal way.
The work will bring the higher religious and literary aspects
of Spiritualism prominently into view, and we hope will
tend to remove with efiSciency the erroneous impression in
the mind of the outside public, that all communications
given through mediumship are worthless, completely beneath
notice on their own merits. The book will thus help to
remove much prejudice. The following is an incomplete
list of the contents :—
1. Introduction.—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
2. “0 Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
3. The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
4. The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given through the
trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
5. Gone Home! Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie
Doten.
6. The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medinmship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
7. Angel Guarded.
8. An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the
writings were produced—The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea—Mr.
Stollop Reveals a Secret—A Majestic Mind Severely Tried—
Dwellers in Cloisterham—Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep—
Critical Comments.
9. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne),
and Mrs. 
10. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie
Doten.
Ill Ode by <l Adamanta,”
12. Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White, author of
the Lije of Swedenborg.
13. Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke. •
14. Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile,
Prince of Wittgenstein.
15. To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
16. Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
17. Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”
18. Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
19. Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Yon Vay (Countess
Wiirmbrand).
20. Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
21. The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
22. A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
23. The Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
24. “ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
25. The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By Louisa
Lowe.
26. De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
27. Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake,
Doc. Sci.; lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster
Hospital.
28. Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the German
of Schiller.
29. The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity. Given
through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”
30. A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
31. “My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
32. The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
33. Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
34. Longfellow'S Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
35. The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “M.A. Oxon.”
36. The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
37. Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maxi¬
milian Perty, Professor of Physical Science, Berne 5 translated
from Psychic Studies (Leipzig), by Emily Kislingbury.
38. Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
39. Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
40. The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
41. The Prediction. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
42. A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
43. Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
44. The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
The materials available in the back numbers of this
journal, and elsewhere, for a book of the above nature, were
so plentiful that we have been obliged to omit much we
should have liked to have included, and have suggested the
idea of bringing out another book of the same kind before
long.
The collection of essays and poems will be most hand¬
somely printed and bound, and it will be richly gilt, so as
to form an elegant gift-book. It will be the most handsome
book ever issued in connection with Spiritualism.
Correspondents have sometimes raised objections in these
pages as to the high price of books on Spiritualism, but that
|| is necessarily the case while the movement is limited in
i extent. However, the superfine work now under notice will
| be issued at the moderate price of five shillings, and sub-
| scribers will be supplied in rotation, in the order in which
their remittances are received.
Several lengthy e< Spirit Teachings ” through the medium-
| ship of “M.A., Oxon,” are published in the book, which
| also contains long and amusing quotations from the story
i of Edwin Drood, as completed through the mediumship of
j Mr. James, of Brattleborough, Vermont; the style of
| writing is so exactly that of the late Charles Dickens, that
I readers are compelled to admit either that his spirit finished
| the story, or that an impostor somewhere has all the genius,
| humour, and literary ability of Dickens.
DR. CARPENTER’S PREPOSSESSIONS.
BY J. R. BUCHANAN, M.D.
j Dr. Carpenter assumes that no amount of evidence
| ought to have any influence on our minds, or even to receive
| respectful attention, if the facts asserted differ from our
| present belief as to the laws, limitations, and powers of
| nature. He thus tacitly concedes that the evidence is en-
j tirely overwhelming, and does not attempt to show his
| readers what the extent and force of the evidence is. He
| has no ability to face the facts, but submits to be driven into
I this “ last ditch”—the doctrine that attested facts illimitable
| in number and in the moral weight of their endorsements,
| sustained by stronger evidence than we require in the most
| solemn and important affairs of life, should be rejected in
| toto if they do not agree with our previous opinions of the
| laws of Nature. Not only should such attested facts be re-
i jected, according to Dr. Carpenter, but we are justified in
I refusing to witness their demonstrations (as he has refused),
I and in occupying the time sufficient for a fair investigation
| by reading scurrilous attacks upon those who do investigate,
| and in reproducing such matter for the press.
If it is agreeable to Dr. Carpenter’s self-respect to stumble
| into and occupy this ditch, which could not have been more
I humiliating if it had been dug for him by his opponents, no
j liberal thinker can object to his assuming such a position,
| and thereby doing his best to render materialism altogether
I pitiable in its logical weakness.
But Dr. Carpenter is not content with this position, which
| if it were possible to defend it, would be alone sufficient and
| satisfactory. He is doubtless conscious that his utter-dis-
i belief-of-testimony doctrine can be accepted only by bigots,
and after advancing the claim that the evidence of psychic
forces must be totally rejected, he proceeds to assail and
belittle the evidences in the very way that an opponent would
have preferred to have him proceed, to render his cause dis¬
reputable among sound thinkers, and illustrate his incapacity
as a reasoner. But if, as he contends, the testimony in
question is entirely inadmissible, why assail it at all ?
As backbiters take delight in narrating little inconse¬
quential matters which prove nothing, but may be coloured
to a suspicious aspect, so Dr. Carpenter, unable to meet the
evidences of psychic phenomena, and unwilling even to
state them for his readers’ information, details a variety of
experimental incidents, consisting of failures in clairvoyance,
failures in mesmeric and failures in spiritual experiments,
with a few real or alleged frauds, for no apparent purpose
but to produce the impression on his readers that these
blunders, failures and frauds are a fair sample of the im¬
mense number of facts which have been really developed
under critical test conditions. But of what earthly interest
and value are these little gossiping stories of experiments
that resulted in nothing, and performances that were sus¬
pected to be tricks ? In themselves, such stories, having no
point, no moral, no instruction, are the veriest rubbish of the
literary garret. They serve the only purpose of rubbish, to
throw dust in the spectator’s eyes. They are detailed as if
valuable facts, solely for the purpose of impressing the
reader that as this purports to be a historical work, and gives
these statements as illustrations of a science, they are really
bona Jide illustrations—facts such as are relied upon by the
votaries of the psychic sciences.
They are therefore not merely rubbish, but, as presented
by Dr, Carpenter, they are an imposition upon his readers’
faith. Dr. Carpenter knows very well that the incidents
which he has reported are not the kind of facts upon which
either mesmerists or Spiritualists base their opinions. They
do not believe in clairvoyance because some persons peep
under a bandage, but because clairvoyants see and describe
persons, things and places at great distances beyond the
limits of ordinary vision, objects which are behind their
heads, objects concealed in boxes, objects hidden behind a
pasteboard, or behind an intervening wall, in the depths of
the earth, or in the bed of a river. An honest historian
would have given such facts and their attestations. Instead
of the stale story of Mesmer’s baquets and mesmeric blun¬
ders, he would have given the well-attested cases in which
patients have been treated and cured at a distance, of which
I could furnish Dr. Carpenter enough to have filled his book,
better attested than the examples he has given.—Banner of
Light.
FOKM MANIFESTATIONS.
BY HEN SLEIGH 'WEDGWOOD, M.R.I.
On Monday evening I was one of a party of five, at the
house of a lady who has held weekly seances for some time,
with Mr. Haxby as medium, when u Abdullah ” came out
with bare feet and arms, and allowed his foot to be mea¬
sured with a shoemaker’s rule. He first took the rule to the
light and studied its construction, and then gave it to the
lady, who undertook the measurement. After several trials
u Abdullah ” succeeded in placing his foot steadily on the
rule, making the lady feel with her hand that both toe and
heeT touched the standards. The foot proved to be eleven
inches long, agreeing exactly with the measure taken at a
previous sitting by the same lady with her pocket handker¬
chief; while the foot of Mr. Haxby measured only nine
inches and three-quarters.
31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London, Dec. 4th, 1877,
At the usual fortnightly meeting of the National Association of
Spiritualists, on Monday evening next, at 38, Great Russell-street,
London, Dr. George Wyld will read a paper entitled, “ Man as a Spirit,
and Spiritual Phenomena as produced by the Spirits of the Living/’
Brixton Psychological Society.—At a seance of this society with
Mr. Eglinton, on the 22nd ult., a very conclusive test phenomenon
occurred, which appears to have been on some other occasions ob¬
tained through this medium. On the table was placed a musical
box, belonging to the society, the works of which are covered with a
glass lid, so that, when this lid is down, no human hand, nor even a
tine rod or wire, could, by any ordinary means, be brought into con-
tict with the “ comb” of the instrument without removing or perforating
some portion of the box. The medium’s hands being securely held, and
the gas afterwards extinguished, Mr. T. H. Edmands and Ifciss Fitz¬
Gerald placed their hands upon the glass lid, and both they and several
of the other sitters verified, by the sense of touch, the facts that the
glass lid was closely shut down, and that the box was apparently in its
normal condition. Under these circumstances the instrument was re¬
peatedly made, sometimes on demand, to emit sounds, exactly as though
a finger, “materialised” within the box, had been drawn over the
comb, producing a pleasing effect as of approaching and receding music.
A hand, apparently of gigantic size, was also materialised, giving ,,
abundant proofs of great strength and activity; the musical box was I)
repeatedly floated in the air, and many beautiful “ spirit lights ” were j<
seen.—H. E. Frances, Hon. Sec.
The Picture in the Eyes of Dying Animals.—The Gartenlaube,
which has ever regarded Spiritualism as unworthy of notice, except by
way of abuse, gives place to a short article under the above title, u
The Gartenlaube is an excellent literary paper; it has a tolerable cir- j j
culation in America, and an extensive one at home. In 1857, Drs. j)
Pollock and Sanford, of Chicago, discovered that the last picture j|
formed on the retina of a dying animal was retained like a photograph, Is
and, having obtained a double portrait from a murdered man in I)
Auburn, they wanted the murderer brought to trial on this evidence. ! (
For this they received the name of pretenders. “But on the 15th |(
January, 1877, Professor W. Kuehne, of Heidelberg, discovered that j)
when the eye of a newly decapitated animal is turned towards a well- i (
lit window, and immediately after cut out in the dark, or by the
yellow light, and then laid in a solution of alum, a distinct likeness of j)
the window on a scarlet ground, with scarlet frame, will indeed deve- j(
lope, and be visible for twenty-four to twenty-eight hours on the inside
of the retina, provided the latter be not exposed to daylight, which l)
destroys the scarlet colouring matter in twenty seconds completely.” |<
It seems that this scarlet background exists in the eyes of all animals, H
and, during life, is constantly renewed, and that it is highly sensitive, i)
like the coating of a photographic plate. “ What a pity,” adds the l|
editor of the Psychische Studien, “ that this light scarlet does not see K
quite by itself, seeing that the life process, as a result of life force, or |)
vitality, has been declared long ago by the savans of the Gartenlaube \)
to be but a myth worthy to be associated with much-abused jj
mesmerism.” n
MRS. VICTORIA WOODHULL IN LONDON.
Last Tuesday night, Mrs. Victoria Woodhull made her
first public appearance in London, at St. James’s Great Hall,
which was filled in every part on the occasion, but not
overcrowded. Gigantic curtains behind the platform, cut
off from view the seats usually devoted to the orchestra,
and in front of these curtains, Mrs. Woodhull alone upon
the platform, addressed the vast audience before her. The
listeners were quiet and good-tempered, and occasionally
applauded the speaker. Mrs. Woodhull complained that
herself and her teachings had been misrepresented in
America, but that she had lived down misrepresentation
there, and made many friends. On the subject of her dis¬
course, “ The Human Body, the Temple of God,” the
tendency of her remarks was to pull down much evil, rather
than to build up anything, good or bad. She argued that
ignorance of physiology, more especially on the part of
mothers, resulted in filling the world with criminals,
lunatics, and diseased and deformed persons, and
that marriage from low motives, in which love had
no part, was a glaring iniquity, because the resulting
misery did not afflict those only who committed
the crime, but unborn generations. She argued
that physicians, and the more intelligent section of the
clergy knew these things to be true, but were afraid to
j , speak out; consequently, if nobody lifted a voice in the
! ! matter, millions of human lives must be blighted in the
S( J future. The only allusion she made to the doctrine of
i “free love,” which the American press credits her with
i I advocating, was that the first time she heard of free-love
! j I was in a Methodist church, where they told her that the love
11 of God was free, and that such freedom was a mark of its
j boundlessness and its verity. At the conclusion of the
j | address she was warmly applauded, without any symptom
of dissension. Her voice was not strong enough, nor her
! j utterance deliberate enough, for the size of the hall. On
I I Wednesday The Daily Telegraph gave a not unfair critical
jj notice of the lecture, one-third of a column long; The
|j| Standard inserted a paragraph about it, and the other
K! morning journals little or nothing.
j) j The second part of Mr. Harrison’s paper on “The Mesmerising of
j/l Animals,” was read last Monday before the Dalston Association of
j( I Inquirers into Spiritualism, under the presidency of Mr. C. C. Massey.
| (| Further particulars on the subject are in course of collection, before the
| j publication of the second section in these pages. Mr. Rouse narrated
j j to the meeting how he had seen a Hindoo mesmerise a full-grown
j) j shark.
Evil Spiritual Influx.—A man’s worst enemies are in reality the
evil or unprogressed spirits who are attracted to him through some
want of development in bis own spiritual organism. The longer he
yields to the temptations of his sensual appetite, excited oftentimes,
I perhaps, independently of his own desire by their presence, the stronger
their influence. The man who is under their dominion ought, when
he becomes aware of his situation, to endeavour to escape at all hazards;
nor is any man on earth, spiritually, so well defended on all points as
to be absolutely secure against the attacks of the lower spirits in one
way or another.—Spiritual Scientist.
Mr. and Miss Dietz.—Last Friday night there was a large attend-
j ance at the Langham Hall, Portland-street, London, at the readings
and recitals of Mr. F. Dietz and Miss Ella Dietz. Among those pre¬
sent were Lady Vere Cameron, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, and the
Hon. Mrs. Forbes. All who attended were well pleased with the
entertainment. Miss Dietz shone chiefly in parts of a pathetic or
| quietly humorous nature, the best being Babie Bell, The May Queen,
and The Swineherd ; one of the more heroic pieces, Mother and Poet,
was exceptionally well rendered and received. Mr. Dietz’s recitations
were chiefly from Bret Harte. The Society upon the Stanislaus, and
Tennyson’s Northern Farmer, considerably amused the listeners. Mr.
and Miss Dietz are admirably adapted to give refined drawing-room
entertainments.
Mr. Colville’s Meetings.—On and after Sunday, December 9th,
regular Sunday services in connection with Spiritualism will be held in
j the Salisbury Hall, 429, Oxford-street, close to Tottenham-court-road,
I at 11.15 a.ra. and 3.15 p.m. Mr. W. J. Colville, under influence of his
guides, will address the congregation on Sunday morning next, on
“ The Philosophy of Death.” In the afternoon the audience will be
invited to select the subject for the address and poem, and to ask
I questions bearing upon the theme considered. All seats free at both
I services. A collection will be made to defray the necessary expenses.
Spiritualists and the public generally are cordially invited to attend.
On Mondays, December 10th and 17th, Mr. Colville will deliver his
concluding orations in Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-street; doors
j open at 7.30 p.m., meeting to commence at eight. These are two final
opportunities offered to the general public of hearing Mr. Colville on a
week-day evening. The subjects of the addresses and poems will be
chosen by the audience.
Dec. 7, 187t.
TfiE StltUTtTALIS^.
271
272
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 7, 1877.
TEST MATERIALISATION SEANCE WITH I
MR. W. EGLINTON. !
Although Mr. Eglinton’s powers as a medium for ma« j
terialisations have been so well proved by the appearance of |
a white-robed figure while he was present in the circle, as j
narrated by Dr. Nichols in last week’s Spiritualist, we wish |
to place on record the remarkable manifestations which we j
witnessed on Thursday evening last, at the rooms of Mr. |
J. W. Fletcher, 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square. The | j
following are the bare facts, to which we confine ourselves, j j
in order to bring out clearly the exact nature of the phe- |
nomena, and the validity of the tests applied. | i
1. The sitting took place in the first-floor front room, j j
Across one corner of this room there was hung a curtain of j j
black calico, which one of us (Mr. Tebb) helped to put up, |j|
while we all examined the enclosed corner, and found that jjj
it was absolutely free from any means of concealing anything. I |
About twelve ladies and gentlemen were present, who sat in j j
a curve opposite the curtain, and about eight or ten feet | j
from it. ** |
2. We first partially searched Mr. Eglinton, by taking off ||
his coat, examining the pockets, and feeling carefully over |
his whole body, so as to be satisfied that nothing bulky j
could be concealed about his person. He then took his seat j j
on a chair behind the curtain. The doors of the room were I j
shut and bolted by Mr. Wallace, who also took charge of the j j
gas-light, lowering and raising it as directed by the con- j j
trolling voice.
i 3. After a few minutes an indistinct white form appeared j j
at the opening of the curtain. After a further interval the I j
medium, apparently entranced, came out and made mes- j j
meric passes towards the circle, to harmonise it, as he said, j j
He then went behind the curtain, and almost instantly (in j j
one or two seconds) a tall, white form showed itself at the I I
opening of the curtains, the medium being dressed in dark j j
clothes.
4. Shortly afterwards the fine figure of u Abdullah ” j j
appeared, and, after several entrances and exits, came out | j
into the circle close up to where Mr. Wallace was sitting j j
under the gas-light, turned down low, but sufficient to allow i
of the features being distinctly seen by him. The appear- j
ance was that of a tall man draped in pure white robes which j
trailed on the ground, and with a white turban, in the front j
of which sparkled a jewel like a diamond. His face was j
dark, with fine features and prominent nose, and an enormous ! j
black moustache mingling with a comparatively scanty beard j j
gave it a striking individuality. He resembled some of the j
Mahomedans of Northern India. Mr. Fletcher, who is j
taller than the medium, stood by the side of “ Abdullah,” j |
who was then seen to be nearly a head taller than Mr. ! j
Fletcher, a height which corresponded with that noted j j
against the curtain by several of the observers.
5. After “ Abdullah ” had retired, a female figure, also j
draped in white, came out, but was indistinctly seen.
6. Then appeared another male figure, not so tall as I j
“Abdullah.” He was similarly dressed, but had no mous- | j
tache, and his features were of a more European cast. Unlike j j
“Abdullah,” who glided about with a graceful noiseless j j
motion, this figure came out suddenly with a loud stamping j
noise, yet the long robes, which flowed two or three feet on j j
the ground about his feet, seemed never to impede his I
motion. j j
7. Then “Joey,” the medium’s control, came out, and j j
though not very clearly visible himself produced in our
presence a quantity of a delicate white fabric like fine j !
muslin, which he shook out of his hands, and which ap- j !
peared to grow as we gazed at it. Finally he stood on a j l
chair, and held out two or three yards of this material, which jj
after a time seemed to vanish away again. Some remarkable j !
slate-writing then occurred, “Joey” and Mr. Wallace hold- j
ing the previously tied slates between them, but we confine j
this account to the materialisation phenomena. j
8. In less than a minute after “ Joey” had finally retired, j
we turned on more light, and found the medium entranced j
in his chair, dressed as at first in dark clothes, and with no
trace of either the figures or the masses of white drapery j
which we had seen pass behind the curtain a short time l[
before.
9. All present being much pleased with the seance, it was
suggested, that to make it complete, the medium should be
thoroughly searched, in order to demonstrate the absence of
all concealed drapery, &c. Mr. Eglinton having consented,
we took him into an adjoining room (one of us first satisfy¬
ing himself that nothing whatever was left behind the
curtain), and he proceeded at once to divest himself of his
clothes. Coat, waistcoat, boots, stockings, collar, shirt,
under-vest, and drawers, were successively removed, the
pockets and lining of the coat were examined, the sleeves
turned inside out as well as the legs of the trousers. No¬
thing was omitted that could make the search final and con¬
clusive ; yet nothing was found.
The white drapery which covered Abdullah’s tall figure
from head to foot, and trailed amply on the floor, and which,
from the way in which it hung and waved, must have been
of stout and heavy material, together with his turban, and
the quantity of fine material exhibited by “ Joey,” would
have formed a parcel of considerable bulk, which a far less
rigid search than ours could have easily detected. We may
add that we examined the walls, which were well papered,
the carpet which was securely nailed down, and the chair on
which the medium sat, and are satisfied that nothing was or
could be concealed in or about them.
( Alfred R. Wallace,
(Signed) ■< William Tebb,
I William Williams Clark.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
At a seance held at 38, Great Russell-street, London, on
Wednesday, the 21st inst., with Mr. W. Eglinton, the medium,
there were eleven persons present. Mr. Eglinton sat in the
cabinet with his legs and feet exposed to view—his hands
were fastened behind him, the sleeves and front of his coat
sewn together, and after a short interval “ Joey ” suggested
that afurther test could be made by fastening a piece of tape to
each of the medium’s wrists, and that one of the sitters at
each side of the cabinet should hold the tape from each side of
the cabinet respectively, the tape to be so strained that any
movement of the medium’s hands or wrists could be in¬
stantly detected. Almost immediatly after the fastenings had
been securely made, and the sitters had resumed their seats,
a hand was seen to take up various objects placed on the
Oxford chimes across the medium’s knees. The chimes were
played, and other manifestations occurred. At the conclusion
of the seance, the fastenings were examined, found to be in¬
tact, and the gentlemen who held the medium’s wrists, by
the tapes, declared that no movement or extrication had
taken place. Every member of the circle seemed satisfied
that it could not have been the medium’s hand that appeared
in front, and moved the articles as mentioned.
T. H. Edmands,
Member of the Seance Committee, in charge.
27th November, 1877.
The second of the above series with Mr. Eglinton took
place on the 28th ult.; there were fourteen persons present.
The medium’s coat was, as on several previous occasions
under the auspices of the seance committee, sewn at the
wrist and breast by strangers present, such test being satis¬
factory to them, as proving (to their minds) that it was im¬
possible for the medium to take his hands out of the sleeves
of the coat. The moment the curtains were closed, two
rings which were on the medium’s fingers before he was
placed in the cabinet, were thrown on the floor. The usual
phenomena were then presented; the “fairy bells” being taken
from my hand by a force apparently above and to the right
of Mr. Eglinton’s head, and violently agitated within the
cabinet. A gentleman and lady present held their hands
within the cabinet, and state that they were grasped by a
hand. I did not have the same good fortune., Some hands
were shown at the mouth of the cabinet, the instant after a
spectator had gone out of it, though they were not shown
outside during the period that he was in the cabinet. A
book placed on the “ fairy bells,” had the covers lifted
Dec. 7, 1877.
273
THE SPIRITUALIST.
slightly at a distance of eight or nine inches from the
medium, and when I was able to enfilade the space between
the book and his body, and notice the absence of any hand
moving the book. A gentleman present with the sanction
of “ Joey,” stepped quickly into the cabinet the moment
after hands had been shown at the front, and found Mr.
Eglinton apparently asleep, with the sleeves sewn together,
exactly as at the commencement of the seance. The light
throughout was fair “ half-gas,” and the phenomena pro¬
duced were as good as on previous occasions with the same
medium.
Towards the close of the seance I tore from my own
memorandum book a blank leaf, and placed it with a gold
pencil case on the “ fairy bells.” There was no writing of
any sort on the leaf. After a time the pencil case dropped
on the ground, and the piece of paper remained on the bells.
a Joey” then purported to communicate a message to me to
the effect that he was tired, and said “ Good-night.” I noticed
that there was then something written on the upper surface
of the paper, and instantly took it up, and gave it into the
hands of a friend for custody. Subsequently, on inspecting
it, I found the words t( Joey,” <( Joey,” written on the upper
surface, and on the lower surface, in a running handwriting,
the words, “ Dieu b^nit tons.” I did not see the paper
turned at any time during the seancef and am confident that
the force which produced the writing did not employ the
pencil case, in which I saw no movement whatever, except
when it fell to the ground. Bearing in mind the injunction
not to ofier any theory of my own as to what I consider to
have been the modus operand^ but to confine myself to the
facts, I present the piece of paper to the Association without
a word of comment. C. Carter Blake,
Member of Seance Committee^ in Charge.
©otreaponueuce.
[Crecil freedom it given to correspondents,mho sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned',
copies should be kept by the writers.]
SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENA.
Sir,—The Greek proverb, with which Dr. Nicholls’s slate-writing
concludes, has been very incorrectly copied for you. There is only
one word in the original about which there can be any doubt, viz.,
that which is written iropSvvt], which is not Greek. If for this we
read TrpoSoicei, decrees beforehand (Scaliger), it would make good sense.
The proverb would then run
“'Orav o Aaifnwv AvSpi irpoSoKu kukci rbv vovv ifiXail/e irpSirov.”
(When the Deity predestines evil to man, he first injures his mind.)
H. Wedgwood,
Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London, W.
SPECULATIONS ON REINCARNATION.
“ Fewer words and more faggots.”—Torquemada.
Sib,—With one and the same drop of ink Mr. Newton Crosland has
given forth a protest and a judgment as follows* :—
“ I solemnly protest against Mr. Calder irreverently calling our
Saviour ‘that medium Jesus Christ.’ I think, before we slight
Christianity, we ought to make ourselves somewhat acquainted with its
true character, history, and meaning.” This is his protest. Now for
his judgment:—
“Undeveloped Spiritualism has also its repulsive and degrading
influence, as it is evident in the circumstance that it encourages some
people to believe in the contemptible and abominable doctrine of rein¬
carnation. A doctrine of devils.’’
I suppose Mr. Crosland has done all this in pursuance of the
maxim: “ Do unto others what you would not like to be done unto your¬
self.” G. Damiani.
Naples, 26th November, 1877,
WHAT ARE THE PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF ANESTHETICS
Sir,—Seeing in last week’s Spiritualist, a reference to Mr. Blood’s
book, The Anaesthetic Revelations and the Gist of Prophecy, in which he
is said to state that “there is an invariable and reliable condition
ensuing about the instant of recall from anaesthetic stupor in which the
genius of being is revealed,” and having had similar experiences myself,
I thought that I might promote the interests of truth, and possibly add
to the stock of human knowledge, by placing them on record. Within
the last three years I have occasionally had recourse to anaesthetics in
small doses, for the relief of neuralgia and sleeplessness, and in nearly
every case have been the subject of the experiences referred to. On the
first occasion my impression during the moments of return to con¬
sciousness was that I had in some mysterious manner penetrated the
mystery of existence, and unwittingly wrested from nature one of her
best guarded secrets. What has surprised me yet more is, that whilst
with every fresh experience the previous sensations have been felt, a
new one has been added in each case. I do not use the word sensation
in the ordinary sense, as implying pleasure or pain, but as the only
* See Spiritualist, November 23rd, 1877,
word I can find to express an impression which seemed to partake of
the nature of a revelation. I can never, after complete return to con¬
sciousness, recall the exact nature of the knowledge gained, but retain
a most vivid impression that I have gained an insight into the genius of
being, and especially that in its primal qualities it is not complex and
elaborate, but simple and elementary. It may increase the value of
these experiences if I state that they came to me without previous
expectation or desire ; indeed, I had no idea that others had experienced
similar sensations until I saw the paragraph already referred to. The
anaesthetics used by me were sulphuric ether and chloroform, chiefly the
latter ; but I would not recommend the adoption of the experiment
except by those acquainted with the administration of these drugs, and
in any case would discourage its frequent repetition. Incog,
! A SPIRITUALISTIC SCHOOL.
] Sir,—It was with feelings of great pain that I received last night the
Jj subjoined printed circular from my old school and college mate, Mr.
j! Percy Boss Harrison. I ask you to allow it a place in your columns,
(I because the abandonment of such an enterprise as his is a matter which
11 cannot fail to be of public concern to those interested in Spiritualism.
j To the Friends and Patrons of the Progressive College.
(I Ladies and Gentlemen,—I beg to submit to your notice the following
11 statement relative to the work in which I am engaged, and in which you have
j; evinced so kindly an interest.
i The Progressive College, the first of its kind in England, has been carried
j j on for more than two years. I commenced with three pupils, and now I have
j! eleven. It cannot be supposed that with so small a number the undertaking
(j has been self-supporting. Having had a little available capital at the outset,
)! I laid out several hundred pounds in furnishing the College, fitting up a bath-
) i room, gymnasium, &c., and the remainder of my small capital I have had to
(j pay away in working expenses during the past two years. This loss I
(I incurred quite willingly; but now, that I have no more funds at command,
) I and my pupils not being yet numerous enough to pay expenses, I feel
) j reluctantly compelled to relinquish my undertaking. I am sorry that it is
(! so. I entered upon the work without any thought of personal wealth or
jj aggrandisement—with the sole desire of making myself useful; and I have
j j • done my best, according to the means I have had at my disposal, to develops
!) j the College in those directions in which it seemed to me the enterprise would
j (I ultimately prove most valuable, and I much regret that that sphere of useful-
j j j ness is no longer open to me.
j j! There is, however, one way in which the work still might be carried on. I
1j will not ask my friends to come forward and aid me with money. Applications
j for pecuniary help are with reason looked upon with suspicion, and I would
not have it imagined that I have any mercenary object in view. I could work
j in a more fashionable (though I think less useful) sphere, and not only provide
i for my own wants, but lay by £200 or £300 a year besides. But if any friends
j will come forward and take upon themselves the pecuniary responsibility neces-
j sarily connected with an enterprise of this kind, I shall be glad to continue at
my post at the school-room, and will endeavour to conduct the scholastic
j department with even more assiduity than is possible while I am harassed
|(j with pecuniary difficulties. I am willing to do this, and will ask no
j (j remuneration for my services except my simple fare and clothing. I have no
j j j family or relatives dependent on me for support; I have no expensive habit
I)! (no wine or tobacco) to pay for. If any friends are willing to relieve me of
i j the business department in the way I have indicated, I must request that they
jjl will come forward at once, and make the necessary arrangements for the
i j j continuance of the work, otherwise I shall be compelled to close the College
i)! next month; and, to meet the expenses of the current term, it will be neces-
I (j sary for me to dispose of a part of the furniture.
j (j I may state that the College has every prospect of increasing in numbers,
j j! now that it is becoming known; and I estimate that with twenty pupils it
j) I should be self-supporting ; with a larger number it might prove remunerative
j 11 to the owner.—I am, ladies and gentlemen, yours in the cause of progress,
Percy Ross Harrison.
j) j The Progressive College, Grasmere, November 10,1877.
The above words may very possibly convey to many of your readers
i (| the first intimation that there exists such an institution as The Pro-
j h gressive College. It has been Mr. Harrison’s misfortune that his
|{j undertaking has not been sufficiently known among those who were
j j j most likely to sympathise with it.
| | Some of your readers may, perhaps, remember a paper detailing my
i j j early experiences of Spiritualism, in which it was mentioned that the
| j i remarkable seances therein recorded took place in Mr. Harrison’s rooms
Ij at Oxford. My friend from that date became firmly convinced of the
truth of Spiritualism, and determined to devote his life to the advocacy
of the principles which he conceived it to involve. After thoroughly
j qualifying himself by several years’ preliminary experience in tuition,
first as assistant-master, and then as principal of a school of his
own, he opened The Progressive College at Grasmere, avowedly for the
education of the sons of Spiritualists. I happened to be myself at
Grasmere this summer; and if ever there was a happy and well-cared-
I for set of boys, I saw them there. They were proficient, too, in the
j j j subjects in which I examined them before they broke up for the holidays,
j)j namely, Latin, French, and English—subjects which, I may remark in
!) j passing, form only a small, and perhaps the least important, part of the
1 school training. I left Grasmere with hearty wishes for the success of
my friend in his work, little expecting to receive the tidings which
I reached me last night.
If ever there was a man who sacrificed himself to a cause, this man
has done so. He has sunk his small capital in the enterprise which he
jjj is now compelled to abandon for lack of support. The fees he has
i j I charged have been studiously, and what I should call ridiculously, low;
j)! and even these low fees have not been paid with any degree of punc-
Ituality. That Mr. Harrison is disinterested it would be superfluous for
me to state, when his present proposal so abundantly manifests it. It
| would, clearly, be the best course for himself to leave “ progressive
I principles ” to take care of themselves, and apply himself to the ordinary
l channels of education, in which his abilities and the distinctions he has
274 THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 7, 1877.
gained, would assure him an easy competence. It is what I would fain
see him do. But I feel called upon, as a friend, to study his wishes for
himself, rather than mine for him, and to let his self-sacrificing desire
to continue his work, even without remuneration, become known to the
readers of The Spiritualist, in case any among them who have the
power may care to take up the matter. If any have thought of educa¬
tion in connection with Spiritualism, they have now a rare opportunity,
where an institution already in working order stands prepared to their
hand.
In conclusion, sir, it is right for me to state that I have taken upon
myself the responsibility of writing, as I have done, without any
authority from Mr. Percy Harrison, from whom the only communication
I have received has been the above printed circular. But, as the matter
is plainly intended to be known, I feel clear in my mind about giving
it the wide publicity which it will obtain through your columns.
St. George Stock.
8, Museum-villas, Oxford.  
astrology.
Sir,—It is due to Mr. Pearce to acknowledge that I was utterly
wrong and mistaken in my criticism (Spiritualist, Nov. 23rd) on his
remarks on the computation of time in his letter which appeared in
your paper on the 16th Nov. To any one versed in such calculations
from Ephemerides this will have been apparent, but Mr. Pearce is
entitled to my admission for the benefit of your other readers.
C. C. Massey.
Dec. 3rd.  
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—In Mr. Stainton-Moses’s interesting paper, published in your
last number, on “ Eorm Manifestations,’’ he speaks of the “ pabulum ”
vof spirit manifestations, by which a variety of articles is made (pre- !
sumably by spirits), and he says
“ The drapery that appears in • connection with these forms has j
always been a puzzle. Whence did it come ? And when the seance I
was over, whither had it gone ? And, had a piece been retained, |
would it have remained the counterpart, more or less exact, of fabrics j
of the earth ? ”
To this question, I should say that in some instances—all, I think,
which have occurred here—the drapery was manufactured either in
Manchester or Nottingham. I possess two pieces—one of calico, which
I, and all those present, saw the spirit form cut out of her white skirt,
and a piece which another spirit form gave me from her flowing veil— j
both most certainly fabrics of earth.
The puzzle is how these materials of earth were obtained, and
where, on the disappearance of the form, they are concealed and made
invisible.
At Mrs. Guppy’s seances it will be recollected that flowers and fruits j
of this earth were brought in quantities; some were spirited away j \
again, but most were carried home by those present. j i
The evidences, however, which have occurred at different times in |J
America are of another character. 11
The weaving of silk shawls, as witnessed by Madame Blavatsky, j {
Colonel Olcott, and others, was performed apparently on the \ j
instant, and no part of the fabric was left in the possession of any one. j
So, with regard to the manifestations described to me by Mr. Liver- I
more, and published in the Spiritual Magazine sixteen years ago, \ j
flowers, perfect in form and fragrance, were brought to him and the j |
medium; butin no instance did they remain, but dissolved under his eye. | (
Although I cannot hazard an opinion, or attempt to unravel the j i
mysteries involved in the strange phenomena under discussion, I I)
think it will be admitted by Mr. Stainton-Moses himself that there 11
must be two kinds of spirit manifestations—the real and the spurious; 11
and this, no doubt, applies equally to the forms which are objectively |(
presented. j (
I do not quite realise the statement made by Mr. Stainton-Moses | j
that the “ vital force” of the medium produces the spirit manifesta- |)
tions, and I ask the question, not to cavil, but for information, whether j (
it is held that there is sufficient vital force to give life and energy to a ! |
form which is much taller, and presumably heavier, than the medium’s j j
self? Benj. Coleman. j(
Upper Norwood, December 3rd, 1877. |)
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—On Thursday, November 29th, I attended Mr. Williams’s
stance. As there were only five of us beside the medium, we decided
to sit in the back room, so we closed (and my husband locked) the
folding doors between, to keep out the light from the fire. We had
scarcely seated ourselves when “ Peter,” “ Charlie,’’ and u Irresistible ”
wished us ‘‘good evening,” and commenced to indulge in personalities,
as is usual with them. We were all touched by several hands, and all
at once “ Charlie ” said, “ I am going to do something. I’ll bring you
a shell from the other room,” and almost instantaneously a large one
fell on the floor behind me. Then “ Peter ” said, “ I’ll bring one, too.”
So Mr. Llancore requested him to place it in his hand. He had
scarcely uttered the words when the shell was placed there, and his
hat, and that of a friend, were brought from the next room and placed
on their heads. Just then came a knock at the door, from a visitor who
had been delayed en route. “Peter” said she might be admitted. Mr.
Williams then had the candle lighted, and went into the next room to
admit her. While he was away we held a conversation with “Peter”
and “Irresistible” in the light; the voices seemingly came from the
cabinet. After again settling, the light was extinguished, and we were
all again touched. “ Peter ” put a spirit light in a small bottle Mr.
Llancore held, and returned it to him with the light corked up in it;
then took it away again, and returned the bottle powerfully perfumed,
as he has done many times, and the scent is so strong that it remains
lor weeks.
Next occurred a very beautiful manifestation. A large hand, holding
an illuminated cross, came close to the face of each sitter. “ Peter ”
said to me, “ Look closely. There is a message on it for you.” I did
so, and, to my amazement, saw, in letters more brilliant than the cross,
the word “ Persevere,” and the Christian name of a dead relation.
“Peter” then asked us if we would not like to see him. On our
assuring him we would, he instantaneously darted over the table like a
flash of lightning to within a few inches of my husband’s face, wagging
his head about from side to side. “There—there—there! Now—now
—now! Do you see me ?” said he. Every one was delighted, and
begged him to come again. In the midst of his answer—“ Oh, didn’t
I tell you you’d want to see me again ?”—he appeared again, and joined
in the hearty laughter with which we all greeted his comical appearance.
The two other times that he showed himself he so illumined the
medium’s face, that all the circle plainly saw the spirit and Mr.
Williams at the same time. I was holding the hand of the medium the
whole time; so putting aside my clairvoyant powers, and useful, though
somewhat unusual, gift of seeing everything perfectly in the dark, I can
vouch for the fact that he never once moved, but sat perfectly still, and
enjoyed the manifestations with the rest of us. Louise Llancore.
25, Guilford-street, Ru.ssell-Squ.are, W.C.
A message through writing mediumship.
Sir,—The following communication was given me by “ Azmael,” one
who rose to eminence on this earth; an eminence to be coveted, since
it enshrined him in the loving hearts of thousands, to whom he endeared
himself by a nature wherein benevolence, love of human kind, and
compassion for the wretched actuated him ever to work for the allevia¬
tion of sorrow, and the reparation of wrongs. He has risen to his
heavenly society, and gives me his spiritual name. The teachings he
communicates through my hand are those of his society, or company, of
spiritual teachers.
“ In judging of God, the Divine Centre and Origin of Life, we can
only judge from a human standpoint, and express our ideas in such
language as is given us. We must reduce the great to the small, and,
by analogy, form our opinions.
“ Given a central fountain of life, we must have a surrounding some¬
thing which it vivifies. In flowing forth, or emanating, it creates, or
incorporates itself in forms, which become recipients of life from the
very fact of existence. Spirit, in its essence, is necessarily creative; it
is infinitely active, ever working to an end, and taking innumerable
forms in this self-ultimation. A centre of spirit without this procreant
power is inconceivable. An existence for self alone is self-destructive:
therefore unproductive spirit, or an uncreative central soul, is an impos¬
sibility, a self-contradiction. Thus God, the Central Soul, being the
beginning of all life, and possessing capacities of infinite love, must
proceed out from Himself, and create that which may receive Himself—
Divine life—in the fulfilment of His own being.
“ Creative Spirit evolved from itself the universe; evolved in harmo¬
nious order systems of suns and planets. Proceeding out from its
central self, it enveloped itself in substance, which became more and
more dense, until reaching its last essential limit, it became bodies,
forms, the universe of worlds. At the same time the nurseries, and
nursing mothers of animal and human life. Upon the very face of
creation we read the reason for its existence, that man, the Son of God,
during his necessary peregrinations back to the bosom of God, from
which he proceeded, may have appropriate abiding places, or homes,
suitable for the lessons of Divine wisdom he has to learn, and made as
far as possible upon the pattern of his last home or heaven. We may
suppose it is the necessity of God to make man—the necessity for
response, the necessity- to feel the fulness of power, to feel it in His
works; but not to have it dead, and unenjoying; to have it living,
active, thinking, reasoning, feeling, loving, responding; thus flowing
back again into the Divine bosom in the ecstasy of loving, grateful
acknowledgment; then only giving satisfaction, supreme joy, and sense
of fulness of Divine power. Glorious work! The only work possible
for God; for as He is all in all, so must the flowing forth Himself,
return back again still Himself; but covered with the glorious triumphs
of His creative works, the victory over all that in the process of self-
ultimation had arisen of opposite, false, and unhappy, from imper¬
fection.
“ Man on the material plane becomes necessarily the opposite to God.
This is the inevitable result of His creation. The all-soul, creating,
flows out of itself, and embodies itself in that which becomes opposite,
external, but not necessarily opposing, or inimical. When spirit, by
the processes of development, has reached the prerogative of free-will
and human reason, then it possesses the liberty to become opposing, or
inimical to God, the beneficent all-wise Father. But man so becomes
from ignorance only. It is impossible that in his infancy the child
should possess the wisdom of the father, hence man errs, or places
himself in opposition to God, or all good, from the incapacity of his
spirit just emerging from the lower animal incorporations, to conceive of
God, or that which is divine.
“ From the lowest point, the outermost verge of incorporation, spirit
begins the return to the highest and innermost; ever striving back to
harmony, or oneness with its divine origin ; ever striving to overcome
opposition; ever tending back again to pure spirit, divinity, God. The
lowest, or outermost, is the most inert, the least expressive of spirit or
life. From this point there is ever an upward tendency, an effort to
throw off inertia, to expand into the most perfect power or capacity of
active thinking, in short, spiritual life. The lower is first as the
foundation, ground, or earth for the life-uses, happiness, and develop¬
ment of the next grade. It is as a matrix, and serves as nurse, pro¬
viding all nourishment required for the new life it has produced. The
lower ever serves the higher—the higher treads upon the lower, and
makes it subserve to its necessities.
275
Dec. 7, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST.
“ Spirit in its growth, or expansion to higher life powers, indivi¬
dualises itself. When it is ready to throw off its lower, inefficient in¬
corporations, a death of the body ensues, and the released spirit after a
sufficient rest, during which it gathers strength, by a subtle inherent
capacity, aggregates about itself the necessary materials for another
earth body. This is in all respects adapted to the capacities and
necessities of the indwelling spirit, which spirit so far individualised,
enjoys the highest happiness in that form it is capable of experiencing.
This new outward form exactly displays the stage of its progress so far
towards the individuality, intelligence, and god-like powers of man.
The four-footed beast is but the embodiment of an embryo spirit
developing into the grander capabilities of man. The animal precedes
the human, is the ground out of which the human grows or developes ;
but being the lowest must always be kept lowest, held down, subdued
and conquered. The animal displays the budding of human mental or
spiritual endowments alongside of the purely animal propensities, or the
opposite to what is divine. But the animal is irresponsible, for it is
incapable of conceiving a higher existence, and only displays its nature,
innocent so far that it is not conscious of wrong-doing. It may be
taught by the superior intelligence of man, and in its low condition
learns also its lessons of self-conquest. But man, the highest animal,
only obtains true and perfect manhood, which is angelhood, by the com¬
plete subjection, and by degrees perfect elimination of all the lower
propensities necessarily inherent in his nature. For as there is a
material ground, there is also a spiritual ground, from which the perfect
flower divine soul must be developed, and this spiritual ground is the
animal propensities, that which the higher must ever hold beneath and
tread upon. Man having attained his highest spiritual condition, and
risen to the celestial spheres, keeps for ever beneath him that spiritual
ground through and by which he sprang into angelhood.
“ Earths are meant to be, and should be, heavens to their inhabi¬
tants, but only the angelically-minded find them so. The human spirit
makes its own heaven or hell, and it is opposition to God alone
which is the origin of hell. Man is the only devil, and makes a hell
about him as the natural consequence of averting himself from God or
goodness. Separated from his body, a spirit, he becomes the tempter
of beings in the flesh; for his unsubdued animal nature keeps him near
the earth, and he seeks still the same bestial gratifications, which he
may enjoy in participation with one he has successfully lured to commit
the deeds he delights in. Thus he becomes a devil, opposing God.
“ An evil man to the eyes of angels is surrounded by a hideous world
of his own making, wherein his own hellish thoughts, lusts, and hatreds
take correspondential shapes of ugliness, where the light is quenched in
darkness, where the heat is infernal heat, and where the atmospheres
are loathsomely offensive. It is evil man alone who transforms the
earth paradises into hells, who destroys happiness, and produces ugli¬
ness. Hells are on earth in the hearts, and in the haunts of those who
lead evil lives ; who try to destroy within them the divine image of the
Father. Their souls are linked to the spiritual hells, and we may say
that the very breath of these pits of darkness has its outlet through them
into the material world.
“ Evil is the result of ignorance, and ignorance is unavoidable in the
infancy of the human soul. The lowest, or most external from the
divine centre, must be dark, dense, unconscious of its origin, or cause of
existence, until by the verifying processes of the divine spirit of the
Father, continually acting from his life-giving centre, it is redeemed
from ignorance and error. Learning what it is to be human, it comes
to recognise and acknowledge its origin, and to school itself in the full
attainment of divinity, while passing through the necessary education of
the earths. Obtaining the conquest over self, and the lower nature,
rising into the spiritual condition of the angel, it ascends into heaven,
and into a state of complete response—oneness with the Father.”
Catherine Woodeorde.
90, Great Russell-street, Nov. 23rd, 1877.
THE UNKNOWN IN MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—I am indebted to the kindness of a friend in England for a
copy of your paper, just now at hand, of October 5th, in which “ M.A.
(Oxon),” confesses his inability to solve the problems to which I had
invited his attention. I am not disappointed. Those problems admit
of no solution that would not be fatal to the enthusiasm which
animates bis pen. The motive power of modern Spiritualism is what
Christians call “ saving faith,” that is, “ faith ” in the unknown, which
fabricates “the evidence of things unseen” (Heb. xi. 1).
The miracle before our eyes (of knowledge and chemical skill) is
admitted. All else is unknown and unprovable. In no case can we
know how many “ spirits ” are present, or their sex. We do not know
where they originated, nor whether they bring to us any knowledge of
persons, dates, and places, except those they learnt during their control
of mediums; and thus, nine-tenths of the factors are unknown. I
am not surprised, when one of the foremost devotees of this modern
“ ism ” owns up to his inability to meet the issues raised in my previous
paper. And while I concede the facilities of his pen, and his
“ familiarity with requests of all kinds, and from persons in all parts
of the globe,” it was, after this confession of inability, hardly necessary,
perhaps, for “M.A. (Oxon),” to refer me to any newly projected
volume of his “ Researches ” for any light on problems he does
not understand, and which he could not solve if he did comprehend
them, without an utter annihilation of his own faith in the unknown.
La Rot Sunderland.
Quincy, Mass., U.S.A., November 17th, 1877.
THE LIBRARY OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—Some months ago, Mr. A. T. Peterson offered one guinea to
be spent in books for the library of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, on condition that eleven other persons should give the same.
The statement has remained posted in the reading-room ever since,
and only three names have been added to the list.
Mr. Peterson now makes a fresh offer, viz., that he will give five
pounds to the above-named object, provided five others be found M
give a like sum.
Smaller contributions could, of course, be received in addition,
and a handsome amount be thus raised in aid of one of the best objects
of the Association.
The offer is to stand open only until January 1st, 1878, after which,
if not responded to, Mr. Peterson will withdraw from the engage¬
ment. Emily Kislingbury, Secretary,
British National Association of Spiritualists.
38, Great Russell-street, London.
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—The chairman of the Experimental Research Committee of the
National Association of Spiritualists wishes to announce that, in re¬
sponse to his appeal for funds for the purposes of that committee, he
has received the following sums:—Mr. 0. Blackburn, ,£10; Mr. A.
Tod, £10.
The name of Mr. A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., &c., has been added to
the committee. E. Kislingbury, Secretary
British National Association of Spirituaists.
ANTIQUITY AND NOW.
Sir,—Socrates, presented as the “ most wise and just ” of his time,
is, naturally, not so as regards the present time. “B” does not adopt
his views, as explained in the recent article headed “ Superiority of
Experiment to Controversy.” Are we to assume that Socrates, alive at
this time, would have retrograded, and demanded that the spirit
—the “ I ”—might be touched, handled, and appreciated by the
material senses 1 To his friend’s question, “ How shall we bury you ? ”
he answered, “ Just as you please, if you can only get hold of me. I
shall not remain with you, but depart.”
While “B” ignores the facts of spiritual manifestations, the con¬
cluding sentence of his last article would be singularly apt to his
position. “ Can no modern Crito persuade the Socrates’ of the present
day, wise and just though they be in their own opinions, also to sacrifice
I a cock to Esculapius in the shape of their prejudices against alleged
facts around them.” It may be noted, however, that the sense in
which “B ” takes the last words of Socrates is not established, but is
matter of controversy. Entity.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
i Sir,—I would suggest that whilst the predictions of one astrologer
upon the present war are alluded to, it might not be inappropriate to
refer again to those of “ Prospero,” which you quoted from the Pall Mall
Gazette, dated September 19th, in which this writer told us that the
astrological import of the phenomena of the heavens for the 3rd of
November “ was one of the greatest menace.” He says “ there is a
remarkable conjunction of Herschel with the descending node of the
| Moon, on the cusp of the eighth house, which seems to indicate some un-
| expected death of a nature to convulse Europe.” Again, he says “ the
conjunction of the two malefics is on the House of Wealth.” This may
| be taken to indicate financial collapse, or perhaps the failure of supplies
of food and ammunition.”
Now, sir, having anxiously watched for the happening of some event
| of grave import on or about the 3rd of November, I confess I was much
disappointed to observe that nothing of importance took place at that
j time or anywhere near it.
| Permit me to suggest a simple test of the value of astrology in the
casting of nativities. Let some of your readers send to your paper the
exact moment of birth of a friend, and challenge your astrological
correspondents to give a personal description of the native with the
I leading events of his or her life. The public announcement of the
accuracy of the astrologer’s description will be a gratuitous advertise¬
ment for him that may perhaps compensate him for his trouble. I
would suggest that the editor of The Spiritualist should himself select
the native, since it must be clear that there is no collusion between the
person proposing the test and those competing for it. Where the time
is not known to the minute, I believe I am correct in saying that the
| astrologer requires the date of some striking event to verify it by.
Pending the announcement of some more accurately ascertained time of
I birth, I might venture to give that of a lady born at Liverpool at 7 a.m.
on the 8th September, 1848, who was married on the 21st September,
| 1871. I will also add that of a gentleman born at 11 a.m. on the 12th
March, 1849, at Frankfort-on-the-Maine, who married on the 23rd April,
1874. If your astrological correspondents can describe the personal
appearance of this native, and state what has happened to her since
then, I shall have pleasure in stating whether they are correct.
Fritz.
] Manchester, 28th November, 1877.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—In the account of the materialisation seance with Mr. Eglinton
contained in your present issue, and testified to by Mr. Wallace, Mr.
Tebb, and myself, it seems desirable to point out that the facts as re¬
lated by us do not necessarily imply the actual materialisation of inde¬
pendent “ spirit forms,” since we have no proof that Mr. Eglinton was
behind the curtain at the time these forms appeared.
It is possible, these figures may have been transfigurations of the
medium himself — stature, features, and clothing, being entirely
changed.
But if this suggested explanation should in any case turn out to be
the true one, the phenomenon of transfiguration is hardly less marvel-
276
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 7, 1877.
loua than the actual materialisation of a distinct form while Mr. fi
Eglinton was also visible, as testified to by Dr. Nichols in last week’s j(
Spiritualist. I j
Both of these classes of manifestation appear to me equally to imply i(
the agency of invisible intelligences. W. W. Clark. j |
Dorking, December 4, 1877. H
CLAIRVOYANCE. |
BY THE LATE WILLIAM GREGORY, M.I)., F.R.S.E. |j
Mr. Atkinson had mesmerised a young lady, the daughter j
of a medical man who resided many miles from London, j
where the young lady was. She became clairvoyant, but her j
father, who came to see her, would not believe in her clair- j
voyance. Mr. A. then requested him when he got home to jj
do anything he chose, not telling any one, at a certain hour, j
and in a certain room. At the time appointed, Mr. A. jj
mesmerised the young lady, and requested her to visit her jj
father’s dining-room. (It was at dinner time.) She did so, j
and saw her father and the rest. But all at once she began j
laughing, and said : i( What does my father mean ? He has j
put a chair on the dinner-table, and the dog on top 'of the i
chair.” Mr. A. sent by the first post an account of what his j j
patient had seen, which was received next morning, and in j j
answer he was informed that she had seen correctly, for that j J
her father, to the amazement of his family, had put the j j
chair on the table and the dog on the chair at the time I j
agreed on.
Mons. Sabine, chief of the station of the Havre Railroad, j j
went a few days ago to consult Alexis, who when in somnam- j |
bulism said, u You come about something lost in the service j j
to which you belong?” “It is true,” replied he. “You j j
are employed on the Havre Railroad.” “ It is likewise true.” j j
(Mons. Sabine had not previously mentioned his business j j
to any one.) “It is a basket that is missing, containing j i
some little animals ?” “ They are—they are—leeches. You j j
sent to inquire about the basket at Rouen and at Havre, and j j
you have received no news of it? This is what has taken j j
place. A traveller going to Havre by your carriages on the j j
—the—the 11th of November, was greatly annoyed on j j
arriving at his destination to find only one basket instead of j j
two, which he had on setting off.” “ This is wonderful,” j j
said M. Sabine; u there were two baskets of leeches.” “ The j j
train,” continued Alexis, “ on arriving at Rouen, left several j j
travellers with their luggage, and one of the baskets was j j
placed by mistake on one of the omnibuses going into town, j j
and the conductor was surprised to find that no one claimed j j
it. For fear of being scolded, he did not deposit the luggage j
in the warehouse, but hid it for some time in his stable; and j j
while it was there, you wrote to Rouen and Havre about it, j j
the reply being that it could not be found. A few days ago j j
the conductor put it in the goods depot near the entrance, j j
and beneath the first window on the right. You will find it j !
if you set off . to Rouen ; only on account of the length of j j
time that has elapsed, you will find about two hundred of the j j
leeches dead.” On the next day, M. Sabine returned from jj
Rouen, having found the baskets at the place indicated by j j
Alexis, with two hundred of the leeches dead.
In the autumn of 1845 Alexis gave a series of mesmeric j j
stances to the medical men of Havre, each of whom was per- j j
mitted to bring one friend to witness the experiments. One j j
of them took with him Mr. Featherstonhaugh, the consul at j
Havre, who had come over the day before from California, j I
and was a decided sceptic as to mesmerism. In order to test j j
Alexis, Mr. Featherstonhaugh put in his pocket, enclosed in j I
a box, a portion of a Japanese idol which he had picked up j j
out of the wreck of a vessel from Japan, which had been lost j j
on the coast of California during his stay there. On being
asked by Mr. F., “What have I in my pocket?” Alexis j j
answered, “It looks like a beetle, but it is not one, but a jj
part of a Japanese idol with an inscription on it. You picked i
it up during a walk on the seashore in California, and thought ij j
at first it was some curious stone, but you afterwards per- j j
ceived it was an idol which had been washed up from the jj
wreck of a Japanese vessel that was lost on that coast a few j j
days before.”—Gregory's “ Animal Magnetism'' ! I
A SHABBY-looking paper called the Christian Herald has been sent to j11
us, It contains a long article ascribing Spiritualism to the DeviL i j
A SEANCE IN PRISON.
Spiritualism has its dark, as well as bright side, as fully set forth in
the San Jose (Cal.) Mercury. It appears from that paper that Bernal,
who was incarcerated in the County Gaol for the stabbing of Officer
Wampacb, was one Tuesday night placed in the cell occupied by
Tiburcio Vasquez during his imprisonment in the County Gaol awaiting
his doom, Bernal is not the first prisoner who has been required to
occupy this cell, nor is he the first who has in abject terror detailed to
his fellow-prisoners and the jailers, accounts of his first night’s expe¬
rience in that dungeon.
Bernal was placed in his cell on Tuesday night, and on the following
morning, when his attorney visited him in the cell, the first wish he
expressed when left alone was to be removed from the cursed place; to
be tried, hanged, or anything, only not to be required to pass another
night alone within its walls. He stated in detail the facts which caused
him to make the request. He says that about two o’clock on Wednes¬
day morning he was awakened by loud noises of striking against his
cell, some one knocking and chains clanking. All was quiet for a few
moments, and then the noises again started, slowly and measuredly at
first, but increasing in volume and rapidity until they were deafening
and terror-striking. They again gradually lowered, and clearly through
the darkness, near the door, he could discern the thin, light outline of a
form, still and motionless, which gradually disappeared. The noises
again sounded in the same manner as before, slowly at first, gradually
deepening and uproarious, and then slowly subsiding, while, with their
ceasing, in another part of the cell the same thin outline of a human
form was first apparent, then expanded, for some minutes remained
motionless, and gradually faded away into mist. The noises, rappings,
and clanking occurred at three different times and after intervals of
some moments, the apparition appearing at the end of each noisy dis¬
turbance. Bernal says it was awful and appalling, so much so that
sooner than pass another night in such a place he would consent to be
hanged. When the jailers heard of it they, of course, had Bernal
removed, and placed in the cell with Madden, who had himself occupied
Yasquez’s cell, and got enough of it. Madden says that the first night
he was placed in the cell he was in such a state of intoxication that,
though he heard the noises, they did not cause any fear; but the second
night he received the full benefit of what he had missed on the former
occasion, and was satisfied that he could remain in the cell no longer.
The other prisoners hear the noises, but only faintly, not in full
volume. The prisoners can have no opportunity to perpetrate a joke
upon the occupant of this particular cell, as they are locked up the
same time as he is, and there are intervening cells between them. The
prisoner who occupies the cell has no object in attributing these
peculiar manifestations to Yasquez, because he does not better his con¬
dition by so doing. These are the facts, from which each one can draw
his conclusions.
It appears that two reporters visited the cell in which these singular
manifestations took place. They both said they did not expect to meet
with success; but, according to their story, his ghostship treated them
wtth all the respect due to newspaper men, and left nothing undone to
make them feel that the visit was a profitable one. They were locked
up in the cell, and were supposed by the prisoners to be under arrest
for crime. All remained quiet until half-past ten, when the entertain¬
ment commenced by the sound of glass breaking against the wall, and
continued with intervals throughout the night until four o’clock, the
performance being varied and pleasing, consisting of raps, footsteps,
and clanking chains, blood-curdling shrieks, and heart-rending groans.
After the manifestations had ceased, the investigators lay down to
sleep until let out by the jailer at 7.30 a.m. Both tell the same story,
and say that they are puzzled as to the cause.—Religio-Philosophical
Journal (Chicago).
There are many Spiritualists in Shanghai, but no strong mediums.
Professor Blackie, of Edinburgh, last week paid a few days’ visit to
Mrs, Makdougall Gregory, and attended a seance there. He was also
present at one of Mr. Colville’s trance lectures last Sunday.
Dr. Slade in Berlin.—Dr. Slade is still at the Hotel Kronprinz,
Berlin, because at the last moment he received a telegram from M.
Aksakof, asking him to defer his visit to St. Petersburg, four members of
the scientific committee of investigation being absent on account of the
war.
Mr. James Regan, whose rapid cure of the dangerous illness of a
child was recorded in these pages last week, claims to be more than a
mesmerist. He claims to be a healing medium, acting under the in¬
fluence of spirits while performing his cures, as was the case with Dr.
Newton.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
P.—Your letter is not worded with common courtesy, as regards the gentle-
man attacked therein.
C.—Your letter is not courteously worded. These pages are" not intended to
facilitate the throwing of hard words at each other by individuals.
X.—It is not a fact that competent investigators of the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism do not appreciate the religious aspects of the question; our columns
present ample evidence to the contrary. They are the most religious Spirit¬
ualists we know, but they are able to distinguish between quality and quantity,
and to recognise the value of such religious utterances and ideas, as are good
enough to hold their ground among intellectual people. They also present the
best examples we have seen of the carrying out of the principles of Spirit¬
ualism in their lives. The Banner of Light recently by mistake acted unjustly
to this journal, by putting into the mouth of the Editor of The Spiritualist
opinions the reverse of those now expressed. The paragraph was taken from
the letter of a correspondent, and not from one of our articles.
Deo. 7, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
' who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining tire author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Fneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. ed.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in Amenca, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient Intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala," published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, ios. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
Wiiliam Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of hith standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiraru n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
d.
24
16 0
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert fi. Coilyer, M.D. . . 12 C
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... ...
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . .
IS G
10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
4 scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. 6d.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6a fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-cohceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a I'emarkably clear and narrative
style, without any^attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit 'world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’'—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.q.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O. 
The “ Poughkeepsie See)'." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. ,, . . • .76
The Seer. „ Hi. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . ,36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . , .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmomal Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruiti of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . ,. .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . ‘ .30
Morning Lectures % , . . . . ,76
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. fid. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holbora,
London, W.O.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloauo-square, g.W.
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 7, 1877,
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE¬
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NOS FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Compa/atively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blooa pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“ Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
“Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
s particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous" forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
If'NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
17 NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease: 
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying-, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.’’ Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Fowder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PH ARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
X. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to AH Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ..,
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads.—“ No; one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“Thosewho can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the 11 . ter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the n.i. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers ;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibad Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘ a.d. 1877
(popular chronology) ; a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional kpare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine,
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.. . . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
WilUam H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers/’
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It Is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.. .. The serious and sentimental verses belong to the typo
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day anil
generation as the authors of -the most serious works. The Lavs
are always original, sometimes ■serious, generally comic, biit
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] . .. “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever' published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—-Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Cperator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER VLucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retro vision
and Prevision—^Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI;—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method ana its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—^Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER Vil:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Ciystals. etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odyllc Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XlII :—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy-
man.with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI;—Curative Agency of Me
Remarks, and Summary.
Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
