REGISTERED AS A NEWSPAPER,
&>[f) ^^YdSo^oG^idS^ ^dis^Kd^.
#Itei; ixrnmijeb- foii^ Spitxtwdtsm m €>xtxd ^nfaiw,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule*
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, ,267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 305.—(VOL. XII.—No. 26.) . LONDON: FRIDAY, JUNE 28, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Religious and Moral Aspects of the Conquest and Re¬
tention of India    301
Poetical Inspiration. The Genius of Robert Buchanan ...301
A Quaint Account of a Five Days’Trance   ... ... 303
Spirits Materialising in the Open Air with the Medium in
Sight. By T. L. Nichols, M.D.  304
Prince Wittgenstein on Untrustworthy Medial Predictions 305
Contagious Health   305
A Stance in London with Henry Slade 306
Mv Work in Continental Europe. By Henry Slade 306
Remarkable Experiments in the Presence of Henry Slade.
By Adelberth De Bourbon, First Lieutenant of the
Dutch Guard to H.M. the King of the Netherlands ... 307
An Early English Seance 308
Poetry:—A Contrast—Animal Life—Struggle of Spiritual
with Animal Life ; or, Comments of the Spirit on the
Phenomena—The Spirit’s Statement ... ...  308
Correspondence:—Speculations—Nana Sahib’s Spirit at
Naples—Why am I a Spiritualist ?—Scientflc Work in
Spiritualism—Spiritual Phenomena in Scotland—
Spirit Identity—Weighing Mediums and Others during
Manifestations—An Alleged Mistranslation 308
Knowledge of Physics not the Highest Order of Intellec¬
tuality 31o
The Old, Old Problems. By Alice Gordon. (Poetry.) ... 311
Dubious Materialisation Phenomena 311
Dr. Franz Hoffman on Spiritualism 312
Crystallomancy. By Kenneth R. H. Mackenzie, IX? 312
Answers to Correspondents 312
Paragraphs:—Mr. J. J. Morse in Cardiff, 301; Christians
among Savages, 305; The Rev. H. R. Haweis, 310;
A Seance with Mr. Williams, 310; Psychical Laws
Invariable, 310 ; Spiritualistic Concert and Testimo-
niil, 310 ; A Yankee Story, 311; Wolves in Sheep’s
Clothing  311
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ises in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Afred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;■ His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg)’; Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain: Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Aexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.R.G.S. ;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Agernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Malionaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: Brifi»h Reading Rooms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzberzog, 28, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Of&ce.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET; BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Calendar.
JULY.
Friday, 5th.—^Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Stance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Williams, Medium.
Tuesday, 9th.—Finarce Oommittea. Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 12th.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Friday, 19th.—Library' Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 21th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 2Gth.—General Purposes Committee, at
5.30 p.m.
>t „ Experimental Research Committee, at
at 6.30 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughboeough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books ou
Spiritualism from tbe Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE EGLINTON TESTIMONIAL. *
The Committee have been obliged to postpone tbe presenta-,
tion to July 2nd, as some well-known artists, who have kindly
promised to sing, have other engagements on the 1st.
The Concert and Presentation will take place at the Beet¬
hoven Rooms, Harley-street, London. Doors open at 8, to com¬
mence at 8.30. For particulars see programmes, which,
together with tickets, may be obtained from Mrs. Maltby, 61,
Gower-street ; Thos. Blyton, Esq, Dalston Association, 53,
Sigdon-road, Dalston; or the Hon. Sec., 32, Fairfax-road,
London, N. W.
SubEcriptions for the Testimonial may be sent to any of the
above, or to the treasurer, Mrs. Nichols, Adwyn Tower, Mal¬
vern, on or before the 29th inst.
Tickets 5s. and 2s. 6d. each.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. II. July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. <J. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—^Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism-
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home —The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Aacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O. 
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen dming a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
JS IT TRUE?—Dr. Hugh McLeod will
presently (see future notices) he called upon by a com¬
mittee of ladies and gentlemen, organised for the purpose, to
deliver an intenEely interestiug course of lectures on the
philosophy of Ancient and Modern Spiritualism. Dr. McLeod
has investigated the entire subject, with the aid of the best
mediums in the world. All friends who may desire to assist
in any way will please address a line, in perfect confidence, to
M. M. B., Secretary to the Committee pro tem., 12, Hamilton-
street, Camden-town, N.W. Discussion will be invited and
demonstrations proposed.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, Wi
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February. 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
  Willesden, N.W. 
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerableability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modem Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomena], Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office. London.    ~
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.  
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.D. 1860 to 1873),
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s. 
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s JDditary and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT'S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Typo and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms :—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C,'
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT. Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to tbe skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great RusseU-street, London.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 28, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, tipper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridqre-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eltz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Bilxton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdoucrall, 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Tcmpleman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
.Barrett, F., Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney. F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester-
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.  
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 84. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sheoter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, llart.. Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfield, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.l C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E.. 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex,
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March. R.A., 14. Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J, J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6. Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbonld. Rev, W W., 118, Albany-street, Regent's-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-courr, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C.. 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, BJandford-square, N.W.
Relmers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G- N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock. St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, SO, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J.P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
Mhite, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
' square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, SW.
Auditors,
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Qfembers.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel.Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Yeh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonfon, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. -W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipslc, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria. Australia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, CUnton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes; Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de.Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt.Pierre,Etterbeck,Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue dcs Palais 137, Schaerbock, Lez-
Bruxel’es.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacpby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
ComteLe de Bullet, Hotel de.l’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Glopcester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street/Belgra-ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmhy, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, JosefstadtErzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola.. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot,
SociedadlEspfrita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
  dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.’’
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O. 
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.8. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
HE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGrRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
EAYEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of Interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal. East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. if m WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily frqm 12.till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday, evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above.
MR, J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, •
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
 Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.  
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, Ac., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway,. and Forty-second-street, New York, will,
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 82, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
On July 1st, price 2d., No. I. of
SPIRITUAL NOTES. A Monthly Epitome
of the Transactions of Spiritual and Psychological So¬
cieties, and Auxiliary to the Spirit Circle, Medium, and
Lecturer.
 London; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state oj trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pakt I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IY. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.,
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London: 38, Great Russell-street. W. H. Harrison.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISE By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O  
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.C,
v
iilSWBtli
r
J®. $ J)^gr^$$ tl il|^ mb ^i|it[$ xrf
Vox.ujviE Twelve. Number Twenty-^ix.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 28th, 1878.
THE EELIGIOUS AND MORAL ASPECTS OF THE CONQUEST |
AND RETENTION OF INDIA.
Eveby few years England and two or three European j
nations are threatened with war because of our possession of j
India, therefore it may be well to inquire into the religious
and moral aspects of the conquest and retention of that j
country, to discover whether we are at any time justified in j
bathing several nations in blood to sustain our present position j
in the East. The Church of England, being in the service |
of the secular powers, never interferes in the attempt to j
prevent bloodshed at critical times. Nonconformists act in j
a more religious way, but do go from doctrinal and abstract ;
reasons, rather than from full knowledge of the merits of the j
case. They enforce principles under which striking is never j
possible, yet there are moments in human existence when I
unfortunately it is necessary and right' to strike, and the j
world gains by such decisive action. Materialists, who have j
no religion but i( Let us eat, drink, and be merry, for to¬
morrow we die,” of course approve the holding of India, and j
the grasping of every kind of material advantage everywhere.
Therefore the investigation of the religious aspect of a position j
which may result in great wars between nations, falls j
naturally to the lot of Spiritualists. Some military men j
hold that religion and morals should not interfere in such j
matters, that alleged “ British interests ” are paramount to |
everything else; the same plea is urged in relation to their j
daily work by Birmingham manufacturers of sham jewellery, |
and by American manufacturers of wooden nutmegs. Is the |
hand to rule the head ? Is the body to rule the soul ?
All the means exist in connection with The Spiritualist
for investigating this question. Among its readers are
many u Old Indians ” at home, and “ Young Indians ” in
Hindostan. There are also intelligent natives of India,
and Kussian military authorities; moreover, there is an I
audience of unprejudiced listeners, all united by the bond of |
Spiritualism.
What right had we to India, in the first place? What |
right have we there now? Were cruelties practised in
gaining India? Are the bulk of the natives better or worse |
off under our rule ? Would they prefer to be worse off under
a native ruler ? Are the native princes better or worse off I
under English domination? Are we improving India, j
whether the natives like it or not ? Are we a coarse, flesh- j
eating people, ruling by brute force delicate, metaphysical,
fine-brained Indian saints ? Or are we the saints, setting j
the example to unlimited liars of telling the truth ? Can |
anything better be done with India than retaining it ? Is
the cry of danger from Russia well founded, or a scarecrow
for periodically increasing military expenditure? Do the |
Mohammedans in India care enough for their brethren in the j
faith in Turkey to even take the trouble to keep up corre- j
spondence with them ?
As there are some few old Indians who wish that India |
no longer belonged to England, it would be well to ascer- j
tain what is the moral right to a possession which brings
about constant war-panics with accompanying expenditure,
and may at any time involve two or more great European
nations in horrible bloodshed. What are the religious and
moral principles at the root of the chronically dangerous
position ?-
Mr. J. J. Morse in Cardiff.—On Sunday and Monday evenings
next, June 30 and 31, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver trance addresses in
the Town Hall, Cardiff, granted for the occasion by the Mayor.
Service on Sunday at 6.30 p.m.; on Monday at 8 p.m.
The Rev. John Tyerman, minister of the Church of England, and
long one of the most active Spiritualists in Australia, has left Sydney
for America on a lecturing tour, and was due in San Francisco a
week ago.
POETICAL INSPIRATION.,
THE GENIUS OF ROBERT BUCHANAN.
At the British Association at Glasgow, the Duke of Argyll,
as already pointed out in these columns, eulogised men of
science at the expense of men of literature, and asked—
w Where are now our Miltons, our Shakespeares, our Words¬
worths, and our Byrons ?” Our reply in substance was that
one of the functions of most men of science has been the
destruction of the ideal; the substitution of mathematics and
plain matter of fact for “thoughts that breathe and words that
burn.” Another cause of the decadence of true poetry is that the
writers thereof, fired by genius, cannot keep their utterances
within the narrow limits of theological dogmas, the upholders
of which possess vast influence, and exert it against anything
which does not harmonise with their teachings. What with
the crushing out of true ideals by the scientific world, and
the somewhat extensive substitution of incomprehensible
dogma for the living spirit by the churches, the public have
become so materialised, so earthy, so money-grubbing, that
the bulk of them cannot appreciate true poetical inspiration.
Then, again, nearly all the means of subsistence in the United
Kingdom have, by the laws which prohibit free trade in land
and prevent its easy transfer like other property, been brought
into the possession of a few great landowners, who roll in
untold wealth, by quietly raising the rents as fast as the
nation at large increases the value of their property by its
industry. What leisure has the overworked populace for the
contemplation of the ideal while thus surrounded by what is
so grimly real ? All these influences have had an effect
upon the channels through which literary ideality could reach
the mass of the people, for the large London publishers
having found that the taste for poetry has died out on the
one hand, and that reams of bad verses are sent them on the
other, as a rule refuse to issue any books of poetry at all,
on the plea sometimes that their doing so would be considered
to be commercial insanity, degrading to their reputation in
the eyes of the retail trade. Thus is real as well as imaginary
poetical genius nipped in the bud, and none but books by
three or four “established” poets, with already well-known
names, launched upon the world. And to bring this matter
directly home to the Duke of Argyll and his section of society,
what has the Court done in our generation to foster poetical
genius ?
This problem of the causes of the decadence of poetry is a
serious one, for it is painful that a whole nation is so sunk in
materialism, in trespasses and sins, that its appreciation of
the ideal is blighted, and that any thoughts from the higher
world in relation to angels, or spirits, or flowers, or anything
removed from the vulgarities and meannesses of earth, are
treated with indifference and contempt.
The point of the present argument is that society is respon¬
sible for the deadly indifference to the ideal in literature,
and that as soon as the Court, the Legislature, the Churches,
and Science seek to cleanse themselves from the earthiness
in which they are wallowing, literature will not be found to
be a stumbling-block in the way of something better. As
in all things else, the supply will meet the demand.
The Robert Buchanan of the present day is quite as good
a poet as the Wordsworth eulogised by the Duke of Argyll,
yet what has society done to recognise his merits ? He is
a perfect stranger to us, known to us by his writings alone;
so this expression of opinion is altogether without personal
bias. A few quotations from his Legends of Inverhurn
(Strahan: London) are appended, and the first of them,
about “ The White Lily of Weardale-Head,” illustrates not
only some of the powers of the poet, but that, as already
stated, there may be too much freedom of Divine inspiration
|j:j to be altogether pleasing to the more narrow sectarians
THE SPIRITUALIST.
1878.
“ I love the sunshine,” said
White Lily of Weardale-head.
And underneath the greenwood tree,
She wander’d free, she wander’d bold ;
The merry sun smiled bright to see,
And turn’d her yellow hair to gold :
Then the bee, and the moth, and the butterfly
Hunting for sweets in the wood-bowers fair,
Eose from the blooms as she wander’d by,
And play’d in the light of her shining hair.
She sat her down by Weardale Well,
And her gleaming ringlets rustled and fell,
Clothing her round with a golden glow,
And her shadow was light for the pool below ;
Then the yellow adder fold in fold
Writhed from his lair in the grass and roll’d
With glittering scales in a curl o’ the gold :
She stroked his head with her finger light,
And he gazed with still and glistening eye ;
And she laught and clapt her hands of white,
And overhead the sun went by
Thro’ the azure gulfs of a cloudless sky;
“ All things that love the sun, love me,
And 0 but the sun is sweet to see,
And I love to look on the sun,” said she.
This life of White Lily in God’s sunshine was dis¬
approved by a monk, who took her to the austere Abbess of
Lintlin Brae, who is thus described :—
The Abbess grey of Lintlin Brae
Hated to look on the light of day ;
She mumbled prayers, she counted beads,
She whipt and whipt her shoulders bare,
She slept on a bed of straw and reeds,
And wore a serk of horse’s hair.
The Monk informs the Abbess:—
tf Mater sacra, it is one
Who wanders evermore in the sun,
A little maiden of Weardale-head,
Whose father and mother have long been dead,
But she loves to wander in greenwood bowers,
Singing and plucking the forest flowers.”
The Abbess frown’d, half quick, half dead,
“ There is a sin! ” the Abbess said.
I found her singing a ditty wild,
Her gleaming locks around her roll’d ;
I seized her while she sang and smiled,
And dragg’d her along by the hair of gold :
The moth and butterfly, fluttering,
Follow’d me on to Lintlin Brae,
The adder leapt at my heart to sting,
But with sandall’d heel I thrust it away;
And the bee dropt down ere I was ’ware
On the hand that gript the yellow hair,
And stang me deep, and I cursed aloud,
And the sun went in behind a cloud !
The Monk and the Abbess imprison White Lily of j
Weardale-Head in a dark cell, with one thin ray of light I
streaming through a small hole:—
“ Oh for the sunshine ! ” said
White Lily of Weardale-head ;
And in the dark she lay,
Beaching her finger small
To feel the little ray
That glimmer’d down the wall.
And while she linger’d white as snow
She heard a fluttering faint and low ;
And stealing thro’ the looplet thin,
The moth and butterfly crept in—
With golden shadows as they flew
They waver’d up and down in air,
Then dropping slowly ere she knew,
Fell on her eyes and rested there :
And O she slept with balmy sighs,
Dreaming a dream of golden day,
The shining insects on her eyes,
Their shadows on her cheeks, she lay;
And while she smiled on pleasant lands.
On the happy sky and wood and stream,
I, creeping in with outstretch’d hands,
Murder’d the things that brought the dream.
She woke and stretch’d her hands and smiled.
Then gazed around with sunless eyes,
Her white face gloom’d, her heart went wild.
She sank with tears and sighs.
“ Oh for the sunshine 1” said
White Lily of Weardale-head.
Afterwards the honey-bee crept into the cell to White
Lily, and was killed by the Monk, and lastly the pet little
yellow snake. When the Monk opened the door of the cell
to kill the snake, White Lily rushed out and fled through
the abbey into the open, air, pursued by the Monk;—
The sunshine made her strong and fleet,
As on she fled by field and fold,
Her shining locks fell to her feet
In ring on ring of living gold;
But the sun went in behind a cloud,
As I gript her by the shining locks,
I gript them tight, I laught aloud,
The echoes rang through woods and rocks ;
Moaning she drooped, then up she sprang,
The adder leapt at my heart and stang,
And like a flash o’ the light she fell
Into the depths of Weardale Well.
The above is not the close of the story of White Lily of
Weardale Head, but enough has been quoted to illustrate
the true genius of a living poet.
The opening poem in the same book introduces the Inver-
burn schoolmaster, his favourite pupil Willie Baird, and the
dog Donald:—
Clasping his wee white hands round Donald’s neck,
“ Do doggies gang to heaven ? ” he would ask;
<c Would Donald gang ? ” and keek’d in Donald’s face
While Donald blink’d with meditative gaze,
As if he knew full brawly what we said,
And ponder’d o’er it, wiser far than we.
One evening Willie and the dog left the school, in a snow
storm, to go home. The schoolmaster gives the following
description of a storm among the mountains :—
Dreamingly and alone,
I sat and smoked, and in the fire saw clear
The norland mountains, white and cold with snow
That crumbled silently, and moved, and changed,—
When suddenly the air grew sick and dark,
And from the distance came a hollow sound,
A murmur like the moan of far-off seas.
I started to my feet, look’d out, and knew
The winter wind was whistling from the clouds
To lash the snow-clothed plain, and to myself
I prophesied a storm before the night.
Then with an icy pain, an eldritch gleam,
I thought of Willie ; but I cheer’d my heart,
“ He’s home, and with his mother, long ere this! ”
While thus I stood the hollow murmur grew
Deeper, the wold grew darker, and the snow
Bush’d downward, whirling in a shadowy mist.
I walk’d to yonder door and open’d it.
Whirr ! the wind swung it from me with a clang,
And in upon me with an iron-like crash
Swoop’d in the drift. With pinch’d sharp face I gazed
Out on the storm ! Dark, dark was all! A mist,
A blinding, whirling mist, of chilly snow,
The falling and the driven ; for the wind
Swept round and round in clouds upon the earth,
And brim’d the deathly drift aloft with moans,
Till all was swooning darkness. Far above
A voice was shrieking, like a human cry.
I closed the door, and turn’d me to the fire,
With something on my heart—a load—a sense
Of an impending pain. Down the broad lum
Came melting flakes that hiss’d upon the coal;
Under my eyelids blew the blinding smoke,
And for a time I sat like one bewitch’d,
Still as a stone. The lonely room grew dark,
The flickering fire threw phantoms on the snow
Along the floor and on the walls around ;
The melancholy ticking of the clock
Was like the beating of my heart. But hush !
Above the moaning of the wind I heard
A sudden scraping at the door; my heart
Stood still and listen’d ; and with that there rose
An awsome howl, shrill as a dying screech.
And scrape-scrape-scrape, the sound beyond the door!
I could not think—I could not breathe—a dark,
Awful foreboding gript me like a band,
As opening the door I gazed straight out,
Saw nothing, till 1 felt against my knees
Something that moved and heard a moaning sound—
Then, panting, moaning, o’er the threshold leapt
Donald the dog, alone, and white with snow.
The story tells how Donald led the way to the spot where
Willie Baird’s lifeless body was buried in the snow, and the
poem closes with the following passage:—
When the nights are long and cold,
And snow is falling as it falleth now,
And wintry winds are moaning, here I dream
Of Willie and the unfamiliar life
I left behind me on the norland bills !
te Do doggies gang to heaven ? ” Willie asked ;
And ah ! what Solomon of modern days
Can answer that ? Yet here at nights I sit.
Beading the Book, with Donald at my side;
And stooping, with the Book upon my knee,
I sometimes gaze in Donald’s patient eyes—
June 28, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
303
So sad, so human, though he cannot speak—
And think he knows that Willie is at peace,
Far, far away beyond the norland hills,
Beyond the silence of the untrodden snow.
In closing with an extract from the melody of The Green
Gnome, it may be well to mention that all the books of
poems by Mr. Robert Buchanan are full of gems of the same
beauty as those briefly quoted here. The Green Gnome
melody sets forth :—
Beside a silver runnel, on a little heap of sand,
I saw the green Gnome sitting, with his cheek upon his hand ;
Then he started up to see me, and he ran with cry and bound,
And drew me from my palfrey white, and set me on the ground :
O crimson, crimson, were his locks, his face was green to see,
But he cried, “ O light-hair’d lassie, you are bound to marry me ! ”
He claspt me round the middle small, he kissed me on the cheek,
He kissed me once, he kissed me twice—I could not stir or speak ;
He kissed me twice, he kissed me thrice—but when he kissed again,
I called aloud upon the name of Him who died for men !
Ring, sing ! ring, sing ! pleasant Sabbath bells!
Chime, rhyme 1 chime, rhyme ! through the dales and dells !
Rhyme, ring ! chime, sing ! pleasant Sabbath bells !
Chime, sing ! rhyme, ring 1 over fields and fells !
A QUAINT ACCOUNT OF A FIVE DAYS’ TRANCE.
An Edinburgh correspondent has favoured us with a
curious old pamphlet, with the following title-page :—
The Trance : A poem, founded on fact, in which is related a faithful
account of the awful visions revealed to Eliza Stephens, a native of
Swansea, now living, who was five days and five nights in a trance :
to which is added an interesting account of her subsequent sufferings
by sea and land. By H. Carnes. Seventh edition. Entered at Sta-
tioners’-ball. “ I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh, and your sons
and your daughters shall prophecy ; your old men shall dream dreams,
and your young men shall see visions.”—Joel ii. 28. Hull; Printed
by John Hutchinson, 29, Silver-street. 1829. Price Eightpence.
The preface opens with the following paragraphs :—
Kind reader,—I beg leave to present to your serious attention, the
perusal of this little book : it is not the flight of fancy, nor an idle
tale ; its contents are facts, plainly stated without exaggeration.
Eliza Stephens was the daughter of respectable parents, who resided
at Swansea, in Wales. In the year 1802, she fell into a trance ; and
although the subject (as might be expected) excited much curiosity at
the time, she felt no inclination to give it general publicity till some
time after.
From the opening lines it appears that the authoress was
of Welsh descent ; she displays the deeply religious and
somewhat unpractical character of her race; all her thoughts
are tinged with gloom, poisoned by honest belief in the
doctrine of total depravity, original sin, and a future ever¬
lasting hell. These dark ideas evidently governed her whole
life, showing the fearful responsibility of those priestly
authorities who exercise mesmeric rule over weak minds by
enforcing that which they do not themselves know. Eliza
Stephens thus opens her story, and it may be prosaically
remarked that the Swansea shore is not “ bold ” until the
Mumbles is reached, and, being much sheltered from the
direct action of the Atlantic, the waves do not often rise
“ mountains high ” there :—
From ancieut Britons were my parents’ race,
The town of Swansea is my native place ;
There the bold shore first caught my youthful eye,
And swelling billows rising mountains high ;
There in solitude barren wilds I trod,
And with amazement view’d the works of God ;
There, to remind me of my future doom,
With solemn steps I wander’d through the gloom,
Beheld the silent dwellings of the dead.
In contemplation lost, yet free from dread,
Here my dear companions, young and gay,
Once blooming as the lovely flowers in May,
Lay low beneath my feet, the food of worms,
Wither’d by blasts of death’s all-pow’rful storms.
The manifestly faithful and sincere account of the trance
is appended. The poor misguided woman begins in hope¬
less strain by setting forth her belief in her own absolute
depravity:—
"Were I obedient to the light within,
I soon should conquer all my inbred sin ;
Though of myself I nothing good can do,
Yet Christ could change my heart and make it new.
Lur’d by the world and all its foolish pride,
Soon, like a broken bow, I went aside,
Follow’d my gay companions full of glee,
And never thought Of an eternity.
But He who loves the souls that He has bought,
Marks each action, ’spies out every thought,
!Soon stopt me as I ran the downward road ;
Bless God, He used the rod and not the sword ;
A dreadful fever seiz’d my mortal clay,
’Mid weeping friends in agony I lay ;
The doctors they could no assistance give,
But told my parents that I could not live,
That on that evening, at the tide’s return,
No longer on this earth I could sojourn.
Now on the brink of death I trembling stood,
Unsprinkled with my Lord’s atoning blood :
Hell then appear’d before my guilty soul,
I felt as doom’d in agony to roll.
Fill’d, with this horrid thought, aloud I cry’d,
“ Spare me, my Lord, nor crush me for my pride!
Spare me, my Saviour, save my wretched soul,
Oh! let not flaming billows on me roll! ”
In this tremendous state I sank away,
"While my poor body seem’d as lifeless clay ;
My eyes were clos’d, my jaws appear’d quite lock’d,
As round my bed my friends and neighbours flock’d ;
My parents were with deep despair oppress’d,
And wept and sobb’d upon my clay-cold breast.
Five days and nights my lifeless body lay,
Bearers were chos’n to take my corpse away,
That with the clods my ashes might be mix’d,
Till that great day wherein each doom is fix’d ;
But he whose ways are in the mighty deep,
Who fills all space, and guards us while we sleep,
(By whom the meanest peasant in his cot,
Or smallest insect cannot be forgot,)
Was pleas’d to pity such a wbrm as me,
And from death’s dreary prison set me free.
My dearest friends, whoever you may be,
That read this book, with me you will agree,
It was most awful, and a certain call,
From Him who gave His life to save us all.
Soon as my body yielded up the ghost,
Heaven appear’d to me for ever lost;
My trembling spirit shiver’d at the thought,
That I my dearest Saviour had forgot;
I found my spirit in a narrow lane,
I groan’d, I wept, until'my Saviour came ;
His stature seem’d above the middle size,
Dark and expressive were His piercing eyes;
Upon His cheek a blooming colour glowed,
His auburn ringlets on His shoulders flowed.
His robes were such as ancients used to wear,
He looked, my friends, most beautifully fair;
His countenance shone brighter than the morn.
His eyes-beam’d pity on a wretch forlorn ;
With tender smiles my Saviour look’d on me,
I knew’twas He that bought me on the tree ;
’Twas he, whose precious wound I open’d wide,
The fountain slighted that flow’d from His side,
Despis’d His grace, His tender love refus’d,
And all His goodness to my soul abus’d.
| With looks divine He my poor soul address’d ;
His words gave comfort to my aching breast;
“Follow,” he cried, “the footsteps of your Lord,
And in your heart observe the living word ;
I Obey its dictates, it will lead you right,
And to your soul yet prove a glorious light;
If obedient to the heav’nly call,
I’ll guard you each moment, lest you fall;
Then will I grant you all your heart’s desire,
And I’ll surround you like a wall of fire ! ”
My Saviour vanish’d ; to my great surprise,
My spirit darted through the azure skies :
But, oh! my friends, I tremble while I tell,
Aghast I sat upon the mouth of hell 1
Transfix’d, with horror, I the gulph survey’d,
At which my soul was dreadfully dismay’d;
Seven-fold darkness was beneath my feet,
On either side nought else my eye could meet;
Wild with despair, I upward turn’d my eyes,
And saw a lid of a tremendous size,
Hang o’er my guilty head, ready to close,
And sink my soul in everlasting woes;
I strove to move, but vain was the attempt,
Immovable I sat, waiting the event;
At length a mighty voice like thunder came,
Which was from God, who call’d me by my name,
“ Arise ! ” said He, and then He gave the power ;
Trembling I stood at that important hour.
Again that awful voice rang in my ears,
I knew from whom it came, great were my fears.
He told me of my sins, as black as hell;
I thought my soul with fiends was bound to dwell;
I felt my crimes deserved this awful doom,
To ask for mercy I durst not presume ;
If He had cast me in that horrid pit, i
I must have owned Him just, aud would submit;
But, praise the Lord, He then did me reclaim ;
“ Return to earth,” He said, “ from whence you came
But He was willing that my soul should see
More of the myst’ries of eternity.
504
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 28, 1878.
That -when you stand before His awful thi’one,
His spotless brides He may in glory own ! ”
My soul descended then as quick as thought,
And into hell’s interior I was brought;
There I beheld the souls of wicked men
Writhing in torture in that horrid den ;
The groanings of the damned pierc’d my ears ;
Their frightful looks and their despairing tears,
Made me wonder at their dreadful state;
Header, repent before it is too late !
One, above all, excited my surprise,
His tongue was parch’d—he roll’d his tortur’d eyes ;
His awful pain was great beyond degree,
He seemed to me in dreadful agony ;
Surprised I look’d at this most ghastly sight,
Which was enough my trembling soul to fright.
But soon the voice of God like thunder came,
Which terriSed the damn’d and gave them pain ;
He said, “ That soul you see tormented so,
In Swansea died but a few days ago !”*
His name he told me, which I knew quite well,
But never thought to see his soul in hell;
He accompanied with vain and wicked men,
His soul was dead, he was not born again ;
He was a man that lives as others do,
As far as I know, paid each man his due ;
He loved the world and all its glittering toys,
Despised the Spirit and his holy joys.
My dearest friends, be you advised by me,
And from destruction’s path this instant flee ;
Bepent and be converted, that you may
Behold the Lord in everlasting day.
Then soon my spirit left this dark abode,
Glory and praise be to my pard’ning God;
Into a heavenly mansion I was brought,
The thought of which I never have forgot;
There stood bright saints, whose hair of purest white,
And flowing garments caught my ravished sight;
Each beauteous form, with a seraphic face,
Unto my view appeared in that blessed place.
Cbildren I saw, as lovely as the morn,
While heavenly smiles each sweet face adorn ;
No sorrow, pain, or sickness there was found,
Joy, peace, and love their heav’nly pleasures crown’d.
Our blessed Saviour, while on earth, declar’d
Bright mansions for our souls he had prepared.
If we are faithful to the light that’s giv’n,
We’ll enter through the pearly gates of heav’n,
And there receive bright robes of purest white,
And every joy that can our souls delight; .
There, brighter than a thousand suns, yve’ll shine,
And tune our harps in glorious hymns divine ;
We’ll praise our God, who left His blest abode,
And came on earth to cleanse us with His blood.
■ My soul again resumed her rapid flight
From these blest mansions of supreme delight;
Unto' the earth my spirit did return,.
Doom’d in this clay a few years more to mourn;
In pastures green, surprised I did alight,
When soon a flood of waters caught, my sight;
' On which, with great velocity, I moved,
Aftdr my evil deeds had been reproved;
At length into these floods I seem’d to sink,
Where I was going then I could not think;
The swelling waves rose high above my head,
And, with a sigh, I ope’d my eyes in bed.
Let infidels and wordly men deride,
Say I am mad, and throw this voice aside ;
Bemember there’s a day that’s hastening on,
When all must stand before God’s awful throne,
To hear these glorious words, “Ye bless’d come,”
' Or, “ Sink ye curs’d in your eternal doom 1 ’’
Oh ! may we all think on our latter end,
That on that day the Lord may be our friend.
The deadly paleness that o’erspread my face,
Soon fled away when life again took place;
The mantling blush that had my cheeks adorn’d,
Besum’d its glow, when my slow pulse return’d;
My parents, who on troubl’d waves were tost,
All comfort seem’d for ever to have lost;
Their joy so great can never be declar’d,
When to their view their child alive appear’d ;
My friends and neighbours from a distance came,
That to their wond’ring ears I might proclaim
What I had seen, while in the Trance I lay,
In hell’s interior, and in heaven’s bright day.
On recovering from her trance, she at once began to rail
at the harmless ornaments in the hair of the young women
round her bed:
When my young friends stood gazing round my bed,
And I beheld vain trifles deck their head,
I griev’d to see their foolishness and pride ;
“ What! do you think God will be mock’d ? ” I cry'd,
“Leave them aside, for they offend your King,
And to His blood your contrite spirits bring,
* A man 'who died at Swansea while she was in the trance.
II What is the philosophy of all this? It is clear that in
I I the trance her ideas were to some extent presented to her as
j objective realities, and to what extent independent spirits
! may have sought to teach her by sign and by symbol it is
i impossible to say. In Spiritualism there are two classes of
I phenomena—those in which spirit identity is proved, and
I those in which subjective impressions are presented to the
| sensitive as external realities.
| The quoted verses form a strong contrast to the beautiful
j|j story of White Lily of Weardale-Head, quoted also in this
I number of The Spiritualist; the tale of White Lily teaches
I of God as revealed in His works, and the trance poem
|| teaches of God as revealed to confiding, sincere, simple
| people by priests. The same religious ideas are dealt with
i in both, but from opposite points of view.
I SPIBITS MATERIALISING IN THE OPEN AIR WITH THE
| MEDIUM IN SIGHT.
!BY T. L. NICHOLS, M.D.
On the night of the 22nd of June, we had an out-door
| seance at Malvern, which was quite a new experience to me,
| and may interest your readers. The night was clear and
| still. We waited until half-past ten for such degree of
j obscurity as the spirits desired, for there was a clear
i twilight in the north-west, and star-light everywhere. We
| could tell the time by our watches, and every object out of
| doors was distinctly visible.
Aldwyn Tower is built on sloping ground, at the foot of the
| steeper part of the Malvern hills. There is an irregular shaped
] garden and lawn below the house. At its lowest corner, Willie
| Eglinton, resting here before his voyage to Cape Town, lay upon
I a bench. Three persons, I being one, sat in chairs fifteen
| yards distant, while Mrs. Nichols sat in a balcony, fifteen
| feet high, and thirty yards from the medium. The garden
| is enclosed by high walls and thick hedges.
We sat talking together, and listening to the sounds of
| the town below for about fifteen minutes, when there came
| a small white cloud over the prostrate body of the medium ;
j the cloud gradually enlarged to a human form, in white
drapery, which advanced twelve yards, and stood beside a
If clump of laurel. After a few minutes, long enough for us
| all to note well, its graceful figure and costume, it returned
! to the medium and faded from our sight.
Soon after another form, well known to all of us, made its
I appearance, wearing the gauzy drapery with which he covered
j himself over his tight-fitting white dress, and talking to us
j in his usual merry fashion. This was our old friend Joey.
| He came quite close to where we three were sitting, passed
j round behind us, took off1 my hat, put it on his head and
| walked off with it; the contrast between his flowing robes
| of purest white and my black stove-pipe on his head was
| striking. In a few moments he brought back my hat,
| passing round us as before, and plucked two roses, which he
| gave to the lady and gentleman beside me.
“ Now,” he said, u I am going to see Mrs. Nichols, on
I (\ the balcony.” He returned to the medium for more power,
11| and then walked first across the lawn, and then up a gravel
|| path, a distance, as he went, of about forty yards, until he
| stood below the lady, talking with her until she begged him
| to return to the medium, whom she feared would be exhausted.
| He returned, the white figure faded, and the wonderful seance
ended.
It may be no more wonderful than many we have had,
| but the effect of spirits walking about and talking with us
j in the open air under the stars, and in the afterglow of the
summer twilight, was very impressive. There was no
cabinet—the medium simply laying all the time on the
| bench in plain view. There was no possibility of any de¬
ception. The whole lasted about half an hour.
Aldwyn Tower, Malvern, June 23rd, 1878.
I! Me. W. J. Colville will deliver two inspirational orations and
| poems in Manchester on Sunday, June 30th; that in the afternoon at
i 2.30, in Grdsvenor-street Temperance Hall; and in the evening at 6.30,
j in Hulme Town Hall, Stretford-road. Subjects to be chosen by the
: audience, and questions replied to on both occasions.
June 28, 1878.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
305
PRINCE WITTGENSTEIN ON UNTRUSTWORTHY MEDIAL I j
PREDICTIONS. ' j |
Yeyey, Switzerland, June 18th, 1878. |( [
My dear Mr. Harrison,—Allow me, for the sake of those j j
who believe inspirit predictions, to tell yon a story about j
incidents which happened to me last year, and about which [?.
I, for months past, have wished to .talk to you, without, till jjj
now, finding time to do so. The narrative may perhaps be j j
a warning to some of the too credulous persons to whom j j
every medial message is like a gospel, and who too often | |
accept as true what are perhaps the lies of some light spirit, | j.
or even the reflection of their own thoughts or wishes. I j j
believe that the fulfilment of a prediction is such an excep- ||
tional thing that in general one ought to set no faith in such | |
prophecies, but should avoid them as much as possible, lest I
they have undue influence upon our mind, faith, and free j |
will. j j
A year and some months ago, while getting ready to join | |
our army on the Danube, I received first one letter, and | |
afterwards a few more from a very kind friend of mine, and j j
a powerful medium in America, beseeching me, in very j j
anxious words, not to go to the war, a spirit having predicted j
that the campaign would be fatal to me, and having ordered I
my correspondent to write to me the following words : ]|
“Beware of the war saddle! It will be your death, or j
worse still.” !
I confess that these reiterated warnings were not agree- j
able, especially when received at the moment of starting j
upon such a journey; but I forced myself to disbelieve j
them. My cousin, the Baroness Adelma Yay, to whom I !
had written about the matter, encouraged me in doing so, I
and I started.
Now it seems that this prediction became known also to | j
some of my Theosophical friends at New York, who were ||
indignant at it, and decided to do their utmost to make it of ! j j
no avail. And especially one of the leading brethren of the j j
society, utterly unknown to me, and residing far away from ] | j
America, promised, by the force of his will, to shield me j |
from every danger. j I
The fact is, that during the whole campaign I did not see I j
one shot explode near me, and that, so far as danger was [ j
concerned, I could just as well have remained at Yevey. I j j
was quite ashamed of myself, and sought occasion, now and j j
then, to hear at least once the familiar roar and whistle j |
which, in my younger years, were such usual music to me. j j
All in vain ! Whenever I was near a scene of action the j j
enemy’s fire ceased. I remember having once, during the j 11
third bloody storming of Plevna, with my friend, your j j
Colonel Wellesley, stolen away from the Emperor’s staff, in ! j
order to ride down to a battery of ours, which was ex- j j
changing a tremendous fire with the redoubt of Grivitsa. 1 |
As soon as we, after abandoning our horses further back in I j I
the brushwood, arrived at the battery, the Turkish fire j j
ceased as by enchantment, to begin again only when we left j |
it half an hour later, although our guns kept on blazing j j
away at them without interruption. I also tried twice to see j j
some of the bombarding of Giurgiewo, where all the windows j |
were broken, doors torn out, roofs broken down at the rail- || j
way station by the daily firing from Rustchuk. I stopped j j
there once a whole night, and another time , half a day, jh
always in the hope of seeing something. As long as I was j |
there the scene was as quiet as in times of peace, and the j I
firing recommenced as soon as I had left the place. Some H
days after my last visit to Giurgiewo, Colonel Wellesley j|j
passed it, and had part of his luggage destroyed by a shell, || |
which, breaking through the roof into the gallery, tore to H
pieces two soldiers who were standing near.
I cannot believe all this to have been the sole result of 111
chance. It was too regular, too positive to be explained |)i
thus. It is, I am sure of it, magic, the more so as the j j |
person who protected me thus efficaciously is one of the |c I
most powerful masters of the occult science professed by the j) |
Theosophists. i i j
I can relate, by way of contrast, the following fact, which j (I
happened during the war on the Danube in 1854 at the j)j
siege of Silistria : A very distinguished Engineer General i|j
of ours, who led our approaches, was a faithful Spiritualist, j (j
but believed every word which he wrote down by the help of 1)1
a psychograph as a genuine revelation from superior spirits.
Now these spirits had predicted to him that he would return
from the war unhurt, and covered with fame and glory. The
result of this was that he exposed himself openly, madly, to
the enemy’s fire, till at last a shot tore off his leg, and he
died some weeks later. This is the faith we ought to have
in predictions, and I hope my narrative may be welcome to
you, as a warning for many.—Truly yours,
E. Wittgenstein.
CONTAGIOUS HEALTH.
America has a Mr. Bradlaugh in the shape of a Colonel
Ingersoll, a clever, hard materialist, with plenty of capacity
to pull down, and little to build up. Spiritualism he of
course dislikes. He says: “Let the ghosts go. We will
worship them no more. Let them cover their eyeless sockets
with their fleshless hands, and fade for ever from the
imaginations of men.” This is scarcely a flattering descrip¬
tion of an immortal revisitant of earth, but it makes a well
rounded and impressive sentence, which is a great point in
popular oratory.
A letter in The Banner of Bight of June 8th, 1878, says :
“ It is currently reported of Colonel Ingersoll, the eloquent
iconoclast of modern superstitions, that when defiantly asked
by a clergyman with whom he was holding a discussion,
‘ Will you be good enough to put your finger upon one single
law of nature which your puny wisdom could improve i the
orator turned upon his questioner with this prompt reply :
£ With all the pleasure in life; 1 mould make health catching
instead of disease.'”
This conceited sentence suggests a new view of mesmerism,
for the great extent to which diseases may be cured by that
power shows that health may fairly be described as “ catch¬
ing” in some cases, as disease is under particular conditions.
Man is placed between good and evil, light and darkness,
health and disease, and has to a large extent a power of
selection. The philosophy of Colonel Ingersoll is analogous
to suggesting that he would have light everywhere, and no
darkness, although the beauties and the value of the one
become perceptible only through the existence of the other.
Were we able to take a broader view of the economy of
nature, possibly disease would be seen to have its uses, and
it should furthermore be remembered that what is injurious
to one section of creation is beneficial to another, j The
carbonic anhydride which is death to man feeds vegetation,
and the worms which live upon the lifeless human frame,
would totally disagree with Colonel Ingersoll in his idea of
improving the particular law of nature he selected for
criticism. Much depends upon the breadth of view, and
upon the point of view, in attempts to solve such problems.
Last Friday’s Daily Telegraph contains a heartrending leading
article on unlimited cruelty to animals, which if reprinted by the vege¬
tarians would form the most effective pamphlet they ever issued in
relation to their doctrines.
“ Fear came upon me, and trembling, which made all my bones to
shake : Then a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stood
np : It stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof: an image
was before mine eyes; there was silence, and I heard a voice.”—Job.
Christians among Savages.—The following paragraph is from Social
Notes:—“ Day by day the columns of English newspapers are polluted
with the records of fresh slaughter in South Africa. Last year the
horrors around Plevna and in Armenia sickened us; the year before we
turned with a shudder from annals that Turkish cruelty had written in
characters of blood. Are our hands so much cleaner than the hands of
the Russian ? Can we not on occasion display a savagery as deliberate
as that of the Turk ? We have deprived the Kaffir of his land, and
now we complete the injury by taking away his life. Could Sultan or
Czar do more ? And we set about the work with such a pleasant sense
of safety to ourselves; fit out our troops with Gatling guns and the
most approved species of breechloader, and send them forth against a
horde of half-naked savages armed with rusty muskets of which they
scarcely understand the use. Naturally, the savages fall like partridges.
* Thirty killed here—a hundred there such has become the stereotj ped
announcement of every South African dispatch. ‘ No lives were lost on
our side.’ It is only when the British forces blunder into something
resembling an ambuscade that the Kaffirs can succeed in doing damage.
On most occasions they are slain as helplessly as sheep. We kill till
outraged Nature cries out against us. The other day 400 Kaffir wives
and mothers, to whom, no less than to Englishwomen, God had given
souls and affections, threw themselves between our troops and those
near and dear ones that English bullets were laying low.”
306
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 28, 1878.
A RECENT SEANCE IN LONDON WITH HENRY SLADE.
On Sunday, June 16th last, a private stance with Dr.
Slade took place at the residence of Miss Ottley, 41, Den-
bigh-street, Belgravia, London. The witnesses present
were Miss Ottley, Miss Emmet, Miss Slade, Captain Ingle-
field, the Chevalier Habicht, Mr. Gr. Ottley, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison.
Some of the usual phenomena connected with Dr. Slade’s
mediumship occurred. Dr. Slade and-all the observers were
seated round a small Louis Quinze heavy ormolu and rose¬
wood table, size 34| inches by 34|- inches, with a large
moderator lamp burning with full-sized flame on the top of
the table. While the hands of Dr. Slade and of the other
Sitters were in full view on the top of the table, and Dr.
Slade’s legs seen to be motionless by those nearest to him,
Mr. Ottley held apiece of.wood under the table. He at
once felt it to be grasped by a living hand, which pulled
vigorously at the wood, and finally took it from him, although
he pulled against the force for a few moments. The card
table belonged to Miss Ottley ; it had no cloth on it. Dr.
Slade was attired merely in evening dress.
At one part of the sitting a living hand was seen by some
of the sitters, who chanced to be looking in the direction of
it, to. make a momentary appearance from under the edge of
the table, while both Dr. Slade’s hands were in sight.
The partial darkness beneath tables, while all lights are
above, is one of the conditions favouring the formation of
temporarily materialised spirit hands.
At one part of the seance Miss Emmet asked if she could
be raised in the air in her chair. Dr. Slade, who sat by her
side, placed one hand on the back of her chair, and within a
minute after her request had been made, she rose and fell,
•steadily and vertically, chair and all, about six inches. Ho
muscular exertion on the part of Dr. Slade was visible, and
his arm, horizontally stretched out, while he was seated,
was not in a position to give him good leverage. Miss
Emmet was the only one who could see his feet at the time,
and she writes—“Dr. Slade placed his feet under his chair
while I was being lifted, or rather raised in the air. I par¬
ticularly remarked the position of his feet, being anxious to
tell my friends that no tricks were possible The stance,
though a short one, was most satisfactory.”
Mr. Ottley writes :—“ I certainly made a strenuous effort
to retain the wood Though a short one, it was, in my
opinion, a most satisfactory stance.^ -
MY WORK IN CONTINENTAL EUROPE.
BY HENRY SLADE.
I left London with Mr. Simmons and Mr. J. Enmore
Jones, of Norwood, at midnight, in January or February,
1877, and we reached Dover as the day was breaking. I
was sick and ill as the result of the persecution I had re¬
ceived at the hands of a few exceptional persons in London,
so that I felt that I did not care whether I lived or died.
At the present time I am suffering from nervous prostration,
the result of that persecution, but I am getting better. Mr.
Simmons and myself crossed to Calais, and went by rail to
Boulogne. There I was attended for a week by a skilful
physician, until I was able to bear a journey to The Hague.
At The Hague we were rejoined by Miss Slade and Miss
Simmons, and I met many sympathising friends. We took
rooms, and gave many seances there for six months; the
results were to the general satisfaction of those who attended,
as attested by the reports in the newspapers. The particulars
of the trial in London were well known to most of the
sitters beforehand, but their published reports show that
they did not see what the English prosecutors said they
themselves saw. The best society at The Hague came to
the stances, introduced by Lieut. A. de Bourbon and Mr. Riko.
Thence we went to Brussels for a month or two. The
same prejudice, in consequence of the London trial, awaited
me, but the reports in the newspapers show that the said
prejudices were removed from the minds of those who in¬
vestigated, although the alleged particulars against me had
previously been published in their own journals. I publicly
challenged the press and scientific men to attend and witness
the manifestations ; some accepted the invitation, and some
did-not, but those who did were satisfied as to the genuine¬
ness of the phenomena.
II was then invited by Mr.,R. V. Neergaard, of Fuglsang to
| spend two or three weeks at his mansion in Denmark. He
| invited his friends, including several clergymen and some
I scientific professors from Copenhagen and elsewhere, to investi-
I gate the phenomena. Some became convinced; not so the
| professors, who said that it “looked like” sleight of hand. Mr.
| Neergaard writes that I did great good in Denmark; that
| I converted many, and he urges me to return. While in
| Denmark I visited a well-known old and haunted castle,
| and the following particulars as to what took place there
i are extracted from a letter written by my niece, Miss Agnes
| Slade, which letter was published in The Banner of Light:—
“ Every one was interested in Spiritualism, the subject
being comparatively new in that country [Denmark]. But
J .two of the most devoted truth-seekers were clergymen, who
! would never miss an opportunity of attending a stance, and
I also of bringing their families to witness the manifestations,
j One day, at dinner, it was remarked that there was a
j haunted castle in the neighbourhood, belonging to Count
! Raven. Dr. Slade said he should very much like to pass a
| night there. Permission being asked (the Count was not a
| Spiritualist) and granted, two or three gentlemen went there
| one evening and slept in the haunted room. The results
i obtained were wonderful. Heavy stampings were heard all
| thrpugh the night, stones were thrown in, and various other
I noisy manifestations occurred. The household were so much
| interested that they begged Dr. Slade to pass another
j night there, and to bring the young ladies and Mr.
I Simmons. It was not without some fear and trembling that
| Miss Simmons and I agreed to this arrangement; but our
] desire to see the castle, which was very ancient, overruled
all other objections. Accordingly one evening we set out,
by moonlight, and after an hour’s drive arrived at the place
where disembodied spirits held sway. After passing a
pleasant evening we repaired to our room, which, to our
comfort, was far away from the haunted one. I almost
immediately fell asleep, and slept until the middle of the
night, when I was awakened by Miss Simmons, who even
the watchful guard of two candles could not lull to slumber.
I joined her, and the morning dawned without any further
disturbances. She then told me that in the night she had
j heard what appeared to be the rustling of a silk dress.
| She had looked round the room, but could see nothing.
She listened attentively, thinking it might have been the
wind, but found it was a totally different sound. When we
were all assembled in the drawing-room, the gentlemen told
their experiences. There were four gentlemen in the room
besides Dr. Slade, and almost as soon as the lights were out
1 heavy stampings were heard, then sounds as of heavy bodies
| falling, which on examination proved to be large stones,
j This continued for, some time, when suddenly Dr. Slade
i perceived standing at the foot of the bed a grey-haired man
| holding a large key in his hand, and pointing with it in the
I direction of a room in the house which has been sealed up
| for many years, and no one of the present generation knows
| what it contains. Immediately after he disappeared keys
began to be showered in; large keys and small were falJing
| all over the room. After a few minutes this ceased, but I
believe the stampings and loud noises continued the night
| through. Also, I forgot to say, the gentlemen in their room
I heard the same sound as of a dress rustling.”
I was at Copenhagen afterwards, and gave several success-
| ful seances to the citizens, who expressed themselves satisfied
j and pleased. There is a society of Spiritualists in Copen-
i hagen, established, I think, some years.
Next we went to Berlin, where I lived for some months
I at the Hotel Kronprinz. I began by fully converting the
| landlord, using his own slates and tables in his own house,
j He invited the chief of the police and many of the promi-
! nent citizens of Berlin to see the manifestations ; they were
| well satisfied, and said that the treatment I received in
I London was a disgrace to the English nation. Samuel
I Bellachini, Court Conjurer to the Emperor of Germany, had
] a week’s experience with me free of charge; I gave him
j from two to three seances a day, and one of them at his own
( house. After his full and complete investigation, he went
j to a public notary and made oath that the phenomena were
| genuine and not trickery. His affidavit has already been
i published in The Spiritualist. Thus his testimony does not
June 28, 1878.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
307
altogether harmonise with that sworn in London by Mr.
Maskelyne, witness for Professor E. Ray Lankester, Fellow
of the Royal Society. Mr. Maskelyne never saw one of my
manifestations, and never entered my rooms.
The priests tried to get me turned away from Berlin, but
I was not ordered to leave abruptly, • as reported in the
newspapers. In fact, after leaving I returned there again
some months later, and remained for a few weeks, which
fact those London daily newspapers which had printed the
exaggerated statement did not make known. Mr. Liebing,
President of the Berlin Society of Spiritualists, and Mr.
Bresa, landlord of the Kronprinz Hotel, are the most active
Spiritualists in Berlin, and many people connected with the
Court are investigating. I was kindly treated in Berlin.
Thence I visited Leipzig, at the invitation of Baron von
Hoffmaftn. At Leipzig I had the pleasure of meeting Pro¬
fessor Zollner and other University professors. We had
seances in Professor Zollner’s rooms. He does not wish me
to publish what took place, as he intends to do so himself;
he says that the manifestations were very satisfactory, and
beyond all his expectations.
Afterwards I went to Dresden and Vienna. My seances
were attended by many members of the Court, one of whom
printed a pamphlet describing some astounding manifesta¬
tions which occurred in his own house. The excitement in
Vienna was great, and attracted the attention of the priests
and the police. The latter ordered me away because I had
no papers or passport with me; I had left them in Berlin.
They asked me my business. I said, (t I am demonstrating
the existence of an unseen power, governed by intelligence,
which should be of interest to the scientific world and men
of intellect.” They replied that they did not understand
this. I replied, u 1 do not think you can unless you inves¬
tigate, so I invite you to come and see the phenomena.”
This they refused to do.
I returned to Berlin, and went thence to St. Petersburg.
There I gave seances to the Grand Duke Constantine, the
Hon. A. Aksakof, Professor Boutlerof, and many of the
nobility, all of whom treated me with the greatest kindness.
I had more sympathy there than in any place visited by me
since I left New York, and shall always remember the kind¬
ness of the Russians with gratitude. They dealt with me
honestly, so far as I know; for in Russia the people are
reticent. The newspapers spoke of Spiritualism in a straight¬
forward way, and every disbeliever I met behaved honourably.
In the upper circles of Russia I found the most intellectual
Spiritualists I ever met, and they said nothing against
“ paid mediums” being too honest to take benefits drawing
upon the health, strength, and time of an individual,
without giving him fair value for the same. I left St.
Petersburg with regret, and just before doing so received a
munificent but anonymous present, consisting of a box con¬
taining eight pieces of jewellery, all richly studded with
diamonds.
I then paid a second visit to Brussels, Liege, and The
Hague; everywhere a lively interest was displayed about
Spiritualism.
I am now in London, meeting many of my old friends.
London, June 17th, 1878.
REMARKABLE EXPERIMENTS IN THE PRESENCE OF
HENRY SLADE.
BY ADELBEKTH DE BOTTRBOK, FIRST LIEUTENANT OF THE DUTCH GUARD TO-
H.M. THE KING OF THE NETHERLANDS.
Dr. Slade has been kind enough to pay us a visit here
for a few days only. Since I have known Slade I have had
with him some fifty stances which, generally speaking, were
as many successes. But I will now confine myself to the
description of one experiment I had with him the day before
yesterday, and which to any real scientific man is of the
most stupendous importance, inasmuch as it proves that the
spirits can completely overcome magnetic force. I will
try to be as brief as possible.
Some time before Slade came to see us, I heard from a
friend that M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, had tried an
experiment with compasses—viz., two compasses were placed
at a small distance from each other, and the spirits asked to
turn the one while the other remained stationary. I told
Slade that if I could get this I would send a communication
about it to The Spiritualist. He naturally told me that he
could promise nothing, but that we might “ try.” So, on
| the 9th of June, 1878, at two o’clock in the afternoon, Dr.
Slade, Mr. V. S  (I don’t know if my friend V. S 
| will allow me to publish his name; he is a lawyer), and I
sat together in a room with two windows, the sun shining
| brightly. Mr. V. S and I had brought with us our
own compasses, one of them larger than the other. After
| some preliminary manifestations, which I will not describe
now, Slade asked if we could get the desired manifestation.
The answer (written on a slate) was, “ We will try.” I must
j now refer you to the accompanying diagrams (Figs. 1 and 2),
| by which you will see the positions of the sitters and some
O
I>
A
OB
G*
/O O’j
\F H /
A
O B
Fig. I.
A A Windows.
B Henry Slade.
D Mr. V. S—.
E Lieut. A. de Bourbon.
K Position of the joined hands.
Sire of table 40 inches by 40 inches.
Sun shining brightly.
! P H Compasses.
| S, south; N, north.
j Dotted lines: Positions of the arms of the
sitters.
I
Temperature about 70 deg. Fahrenheit. Wind west.
i other details. At my friend’s request the needle in F oscil-
| lated several times, as if somebody (spirit) made the effort to
I turn it. When the F needle was again at rest, the needle
| in H turned round, while F remained stationary. At our
request the needles of the compasses F and H turned round
swiftly in the way indicated by the dotted lines W W and
E E. The distance between the centres of the two com¬
passes was about three inches, English measure. Both were
enclosed between my two arms, as in diagram No. 1, our
hands being joined together at K.
The Hague, Holland, June 11th, 1878.
Since the foregoing was in type, Lieutenant Bourbon has
added, in a private note :—
I was so struck with this unexpected result, which
was such positive evidence of an exterior intelligence
acting upon the compasses which I had between my
arras at not more than three-quarters of a foot from
my eyes, that I directly wrote the facts to you. I
wish you could have seen the swinging motion of the
needles whenever one of them at my request, or that of my
friend M. von S——, was attempting to turn round. It
was most wonderful. My friend and I are perfectly sure
that no imposture of whatever kind could have taken place.
When Slade once took his hands from ours, and wanted to
make the needles turn by holding his hands over the com¬
passes, they did not move a point. It was only at our
request they moved.
In reply to questions put by us, we have received the
following information from Lieutenant de Bourbon, by
telegraph :—
The compasses were glass covered. The needles turned
in the pictured opposite directions simultaneously. The
table at the time was steady upon its four legs.
The Hague, 23rd Juno, 1878.
308
THE SPIRITUALIST.
AN EAELY ENGLISH SEANCE.
Professor J. R. Buchanan has published the following
in The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.):—
One of the most remarkable seances held by Mrs. Hayden,
at London, was one with a tall, dark-complexioned gentle¬
man, of haughty bearing, who presented himself under the
fictitious name of ff Cosmopolite,” and who was greatly
astonished at the correctness of the answers he received, but
attributed their correctness to thought-reading, as the
answers included nothing beyond his own knowledge.
Hi Then ask some question, the answer to which is not in
your own mind,” was said to him.
He again passed his pencil over the alphabet, when the
following startling question was propounded to him by the
invisibles :—
% Have you forqotten the murder you committed in the West
Indies.? ”
At first he did not comprehend the tenor of the words,
the letters being run together without regard to the
sentences; but on separating them the above was the
result, on discovering the import of which he said, with
great agitation :—
u There is some mistake here. Who are you ? ”
“Agatha .C’
“ My God ! but this is strange ! There is some mistake.
Of what murder do you accuse me ? ”
“ The young Creole girlP'’
if Pshaw,” said he, with a forced laugh. \ Ah 1 my good
madam, there is some wag here who wishes to impose his
jokes upon me.”
The only response to this question was one loud rap, which
is understood as a negative.
“ i/1 murdered you, as you insist, will you tell me for
what ?”
“ To prevent exposure! ” was the prompt reply. The hand
of the questioner became tremulous, and his face ashy pale.
There was a smothered hell within his bosom, which he was
■vainly striving to quench. Assuming a careless and indif¬
ferent tone, he continued his interrogatories.
H Since you seem inclined to make out so plausible a story,
will you tell me with what you were murdered ?”
“ Hie little silver poignard which I gave you as a keepsake,
and which you at this moment wear concealed upon your
person l”
The thunderbolt had fallen, and the terrible blow was more
than the guilty man could bear;' and, while trembling with
fear and excitement, he confessed to the truth of the revela¬
tion, and implored Mrs. Hayden, for the sake of his family,
not to mention the facts in connection with his name, which
promise she gave and kept.
This communication made a deep impression upon Mr.
——who seemed to become a changed man, and afterward
said to Mrs. Hayden, “ I have nothing more to live for, and
shall be happy to go hence whenever the summons shall
come.”
This man displayed to Mrs. Hayden the poignard, which he
still carried, and his display of feeling was overwhelming. It
is to be observed, however, that the messages from the spirit-
world in such cases are not vindictive—they do not aim at
the exposure and punishment of the murderer, but at his
reformation.
Chambers'>s Journal of the same year gives the following
statement:—“ I revisited Mrs. Hayden several times, and
witnessed many similar i manifestations.’ On one occasion
a young man w7as present who obtained intelligence of the
death of a brother Jong lost in distant lands ; also the secret
of a murder, which he suspected to have taken place in his
family. The spirit was asked if he should take measures to
bring the guilty party to justice, but this was discommended ;
the spirits, we were informed, are generally tender towards
the reputations and interests of living persons.”
One of the most important subjects to which all Spiritualists might
uow turn attention, especially after the consideration of the specu¬
lative questions which have been irominent of late, is that of spirit
identity. In a small minority of spirit messages, the identity of the
communicant has been well proved. All examples should be fully
autbenticahd with full names, addresses, and minute details, or tl.eir
histoiical Aalue will le lowered.
June 28, 1878.
A CONTRAST.
ANIMAL LIFE.
We don’t want to fight, hut by Jingo if we do,
We have the ships, we have the men, we have the money too ;
We’ve licked the Bear before, we’ll lick the Bear again, &c. &c.
STRUGGLE OF .SPIRITUAL WITH ANIMAL LIFE ; OR, COMMENTS OF THE
SPIRIT ON THE PHENOMENA.
With glee we’ll dance the bloody dance,
With glee we’ll sing the bloody song,
And thus the cause of Love advance,
And in the God of Love be strong.
We swear—On Thee, 0 Lord! we call
On Thee, who saidst, jjj Swear not at all ”—
That we will fight with might and main,
Though Thou hast said, “ Strike not again.”
We’ll make our Earth a Hell below,
And swear its heat is Heav’n’s own glow ;
With devils-we will fraternise,
And deem them angels in disguise.
Oh ! nerve our arms, direct our aim !
And we will praise Thy holy name.
Praise God ! from whom all blessings flow,
For all the myriads sent below.
THE spirit’s STATEMENT.
Thus people madly break Thy holy laws,
And ask Thy aid for crimes, they call Thy cause ;
And white-robed priests and choristers again
Intone complacently the loud “ Amen !”
Rehearse the prayer, and the “ Te Deum” sing
Before the fight, and when the fight they win.
Thus Satan sits enthroned in Thy name.
The white-robed honours of Thy courts to claim.
High Heaven travestied, and Thy name blasphemed
By men who bless that name as Thy redeemed !
What hope for Good, thus piously profaned ?
What hope for Truth, with falsehood thus engrained ?
But, hark ! I hear a voice to love still true:
“ Father, forgive ! they know not what they do !”
That voice, 0 Father, Thou hast made Thine own ;
That voice now speaks from the Eternal Throne !
Yes! There ts Hope ! 0 Holy Heart of Life
We trust Thy goodness through the fiercest strife.
Rochdale.
ZXSSCCXCCCSCCCCCCCCOCCCCCSr
(Kovveaponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned
copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are not anonymous.']
SPECULATIONS.
Sir,—After the long discussion on Theosophy which has taken place in
the pages of The Spiritualist during'the past six months, it is somewhat
disappointing to find that the result is almost nil. While the ideas of
both Spiritualists and Theosophists have been well expounded by those
most capable on both sides, the breach, instead of being narrowed, has
increased. There is one portion of the subject which I think deserves
attention, a consideration of which may possibly do something towards
making the position of both divisions plainer. I refer to the communi¬
cating intelligence. Spiritualists affirm that they know that the spirits
of the departed have manifested and proved their identity in thousands
of cases ; Theosophists assert that spirits, except in very rare instances,
cannot manifest. Can either prove their statements ? I think not.
Let us, then, see which is the most probable. On the Spiritualists’
side it may be said that the intelligence communicating asserts that it
is a spirit; but this may be regarded as an outgrowth of the popular
fallacy that man is simply body and spirit, which gave birth to the idea
that all apparitions and supernatural intelligencies are, or must emanate
from spirits. Spiritualists, although they now regard man as a trinity
—body, soul, and spirit—have no definite ideas of the purposes of each.
Theosophists teach that inside the physical body of man, and permeating
it is an “ astral ” body, or soul, and that these two are overshadowed
(illuminated and spiritualised) by a third—the Divine immortal spirit.
At death the “astral” man (or double, or soul) still possesses the indi¬
viduality of the man, but, being merely sublimated matter, may become
separated from his divine part—the spirit. The attractions of spirit,
when free from the physical body, must be towards spirit (must be
attracted to its Maker) ; hence T-heosophists contend that a spirit, being
a portion of God, cannot, except under the highest conditions, manifest.
The trinity of man may be said to be agreed upon by both Spiritualist
and Theosophist. The point now is, what portion of this trinity does
manifest after what is termed death 1 The physical body, it is agreed,
rots. If it is also admitted that the spirit comes from God, belongs to
God, and is a portion of God, it follows that the attractions of spirit,
which we must regard as our most pure and holy part, must be to
spirit. Regarded in this light, one can well conceive the extreme
difficulty, if not the impossibility, of a spirit manifesting at an ordinary
seance, and the bare possibility of its manifesting to a circle compqsed
of persons with pure and holy bodies, thoughts, and aspirations. It
therefore appears to me that the intelligence, as a rule, may emanate
from that portion of man termed the soul, or “double.” Colonel
Olcott ascribes the greater part of the phenomena to elementaries, and
the souls of mediums in the flesh ; why cannot they be produced by the
souls of mediums at d others out of the flesh ? That the medium’s
double, elenuntarics, &c., may sometimes pioduce the phenomena is not
June 28, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
309
doubted; but in the thousands of cases in which the identity of the
intelligence has been fully established, there can be no doubt that it
must emanate from a something possessing the individuality of the'
person deceased. If we regard the spirit as Divine, I do not think it
is possible, under ordinary circumstances, for it to communicate. I
therefore suggest that the intelligence, when the identity is proved, is
the soul. Perhaps some of your readers who have given greater
attention to these matters than I have will give their opinion upon this
point. A. E. Middleton.
Retford, June 17th, 1878.
NANA sahib’s SPIEIT AT NAPLES. | / j
Sir,—The mistake about the name of the well, which ought to have | j
been “ Cawnpore ” instead of “ Lucknow,” as pointed out in a number j j
of The Spiritualist by your correspondent, “ One who was Sent to the h |
Rescue,” must not be attributed either to Nana or to the unconscious ||!
medium, but to me. j( j
It happened thus :—The shorthand writer, not catching the name |( j
“Cawnpore” uttered by Mrs. Bej, left a blank in its place, and, on j
my dictating the translation, I, through ignorance, filled the gap with !
Lucknow instead of Cawnpore. jl
Other blunders, alas ! were committed in that report, I do not know j;
whether by the negligence of my amanuensis or by the printer, and by
which I am made to appear a ridiculous French scholar, and an i j
incorrect writer of the names of two English ladies present at the j | ]
seance. ; (j
My only consolation is in the consideration that martyrs have n
suffered things worse than these. G. Damiani.
Naples.   j i
WHY AM I A SPIRITUALIST ? | j j
Sir,—1. Because I find the teachings of good spirits correspond to j ]
the principles of the gospel teaching of Jesus Christ, viz., the love of j j
truth and good for their own sake. |
2. Because, by enabling us to have affectionate communion with our j |
loved friends who have passed away before us, we become, through j j j
their knowledge and experience, enlightened, comforted, and willingly i)!
prepared to follow and join them. j
3. Because these friends lay before us a more extended and complete j
account of the nature of the after life, both of the good and evil dis- i)
posed spirits, than we obtain from the Scriptures. T. j
June 18th, 1878. - !j
SCIENTIFIC WORK IN SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Permit me, through your columns, to express my thanks for |
having been permitted, since my arrival in England, to attend the fort- I
nightly meetings of the British National Association of Spiritualists, j
By means of the papers there read, and the discussions attendant
thereon, I have had entirely uprooted certain very imperfectly formed
notions of the Work done by Spiritualists as a body, and some very ]
clearly defined knowledge has been implanted in their place. I find— |
and I must confess with surprise—that the National Association is ;
composed of men of deep thought, who are doing real hard, thorough, |
scientific work, uncompromisingly searching out and eliminating from j
their creed everything that will not bear the fierce fires of the refiner’s
furnace, and effectually placing their records in such a position as to
defy all the powers of opposition to discredit them. The work upon
Psychography, lately written by “ M.A. (Oxon.),” is a further record of j
labours of the same inflexible type—a book which must convince anyone,
not actually blind through prejudice, that no efforts have been spared to
bring to bear upon the phenomena recorded all the tests which science
can devise. John Stoker Cobb.
London, June 22nd, 1878.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN SCOTLAND.
Sir,—Miss Fairlamb, the medium, of Newcastle-on-Tyne, is at i'
present on a visit to Scotland, as much for rest and recreation as any- j
thing else, but she affords opportunities to investigators while she is j
here by giving a few siances. Some of them have taken place in
Glasgow, and some in Edinburgh, and they gave general satisfaction, j
At three which were given in Edinburgh, at the house of Mr. C 
(whose name and address I enclose), the manifestations were quite in i
accord with, and as powerful as, those reported in The Spiritualist,
about twelve months ago, as occurring at Newcastle-on-Tyne. They
took place on successive evenings, viz., the 18th, 19th, and 20th inst.
The number of ladies and gentlemen present averaged eighteen, i
including several local Spiritualists and three clergymen.
The first seance took place not under test conditions ; the small form
of Cissy made its appearance, also the masculine form of “ Geordie,”
which latter form did not come out of the cabinet.
The second evening was somewhat a repetition of the former, but
more powerful; the articulation of tf Geordie ” was distinctly audible ;
another noticeable feature was his showing his bare legs and feet at
intervals, more or less perfectly. Another manifestation of power
was afforded to the criticism of the company by the manner in which
Miss Fairlamb was securely corded by Geordie with a long stout cord
of five yards or more in length, which had been handed in to the
cabinet a little while before the termination of the stance, and which
it took three or four gentlemen ten minutes or more to unfasten in the
light; one of the medium’s hands was secured to her breast, and the
other to her side, both in such a position that she herself could not
have used her own hands in the tying up. A bouquet of flowers, which
was handed to Cissy b r Mrs. C — when out of the cabinet, was
■taken within, and was not found afterwards-.
A similar thing took place the following evening, when another lady
handed a small bouquet of forget-me-nots to another figure; but on
this,, the third evening, th'e medium had been put under strict test
conditions by one of the gentlemen, who fastened each wrist with tape
to the arms of the chair, and sewed the ends to the medium’s dress. He
likewise did the same at the bend of the arm, and again at the
shoulder; he passed a tape round the waist to the back of the chair,
also with other tapes secured the lower portion of the dress ; all the
joints were sewn, and each tape stitched to the dress. The result was
that several forms showed themselves at the opening of the cabinet
(which consisted of curtains hanging in the corner of the room). The
form of Minnie was not so largely developed as is often the case ; she
appeared on this occasion about four feet in height, very slender, with
uplifted arms, and remained visible about two minutes. At the con¬
clusion of the seance the tapes were all found intact; they were cut
from the chair, thus leaving them hanging as sewn on the dress. This
last siance lasted three hours.
A very important thing at the previous evening’s seance was that
the curtains of the cabinet were opened wide from within, revealing
the form of the medium seated in the chair, with a white-draped form
standing beside, all seen plainly by most of the company.
J. T. Rhodes.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—The following may be considered proofs of the identity of
spirits in the medial writing of the late Mr. G. B. Pritchard:—
“ In the year 1858 a new bandwriting appeared; the signature was
that of a gentleman he had once met twenty-four years previously, but
of whom he had no recollection ; he had only shortly before the message
was given been spoken of by a friend Mr. Pritchard had recently
become acquainted with. He inquired of this friend if she happened
to have any of his writing. An old letter was produced, and the signa¬
ture was exactly the same; the name and the hand-writing were both
uncommon. Subsequently a communication was written to this lady,
giving advice pertinent to peculiar circumstances under which she was
perplexed how to act; it was followed, and had respect to a future event
which occurred. Some time afterwards a writing was signed1 Cromwell; ’
to test this Mr. Pritchard obtained an inspection of a fac simile of the
death-warrant of Charles I. Cromwell’s signature was larger, and of
a different character; he therefore disbelieved the authenticity of the
communications. His hand was moved to write again, telling him to
inquire again, and he would meet with some of his writing. Mr.
Pritchard thought this most improbable; however, he inquired at
Jenning’s, in Cheapside, if they had any/ac simile of Cromwell’s hand¬
writing, and the reply was, * We have just received a few lines that were
written by him on the field of battle.’ This writing was precisely the
same as that of the communications. They continued at frequent
intervals.” F. C. P.
Upper Norwood, March 18th, 1878.
Sir,—I went some time ago with my children to see Mr. Fletcher,
the trance medium. I had some peculiar things when Kardec put in an
appearance, and tried to convince me that the spiritual sympathy or
affinity between my daughter and myself was due to a close relation in
a prior existence; he did not give particulars.
After this the medium went through the horrors of a suicide com¬
mitted by a nephew of mine in the Prussian army, who jumped off a
mountain of great height. This was a very striking, incident, and it
affected the medium greatly; the name of the deceased was given at
once, and the reason which led him to commit the rash act.
The details were, I think, of too private a nature to be published in
full. J. N. Tiedeman Martheze.
Brighton.  
- Sir,—I think the following testimony to the genuineness of Mr. Foster’s
mediumship may be interesting. It was taken by me verbatim from
the lips of a friend, a clergyman of the Church of England, who objects
to give his name:—
“ When in America I called upon Mr. Foster, the Spiritualist, in New York.
I went to ask him certain scientific questions. He gave me some very clever
replies, but he wished me to write them down, in order that he might place
the paper on his forehead, between his eyes. He requested me to write to
six dead relatives. Upon my replying that I had only five, he said, ‘ Is there
not a mistake ?’ I replied, £ No.’ Upon which I did write to them, and
received some wonderful answers. On the following day, whilst he was
talking to an actress who had come to ask him how she would succeed in her
part, he turned suddenly round to me, whilst I was sitting in a distant part of
the room, and said, with anger: f Sir, you told me a falsehood yesterday.
Yon said you had only five dead relatives; you have six. You have a
brother, named Henry, who died at Eton, near Windsor, at the age of four, of
water on the brain. He is standing by your side, and wishes to speak to you.’
“ All this was quite true, and I had entirely forgotten it.
“ (Signed) P. J. B.”
Charlotte FitzGerald.
19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, London, W.
Sir,—If Spiritualism be true can no one be found who would collect
and publish well authenticated facts of spirit identity, haunted houses,
and spectres? If in some instances there is a disinclination to pub¬
lish names, yet if the facts were authenticated by well-known people (as
Mr. Coleman did some time since for the truth of an anonymous but
interesting book upon Spiritualism), and a narrative given of the ques¬
tions asked and the replies given to prove spirit identity, inquirers
would be encouraged to persevere. Such a work is the great want of
the day. Inquirers seek proofs of immortality. A Spiritualist.
Edinburgh.
[M.A. (Oxon) and Mr. Harrison have each been collecting materials for such
a work for a long time, and it is to be hoped that a book on the subject will
be forthcoming before long.—Ed.]
310
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 28, 1878.
"WEIGHING MEDIUMS AND OTHERS DURING MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—-it has been a general belief that a portion of force is taken from
sitters at a seance, as well as from the medium. Is this the case, and
is this force, then, represented by weight P The late experiments with Mr.
"Williams, when seated in a suspended cabinet connected with a weigh¬
ing machine, seem rather to imply the contrary, from the fact of the
very great reduction in Mr. Williams’ own weight, whether in presence
of a circle of several, or only of one or two, and they, perhaps, not
mediumistic. In order to test this question, it would be necessary to
have weighing machines and indicators for the sitters as well as for the
medium; each chair, for instance, might, during a seance, rest on a
weighing machine with self-registering apparatus. Scrutator.
AN ALLEGED MISTRANSLATION.
Sir,—You are always so willing to present to your readers the
shadows as well as the lights of Spiritualism, that I was not surprised to
see in your last issue a Jesuit’s opinion on the subject. That he should
regard it as a res evidenter mala is not at all to be wondered at; but I
must confess to a feeling of astonishment when I found him saying that
it is notf a sin to inquire of tables and things of that hind. I turned
from the translation to the original, and then the mystery was explained.
It was the story of Balaam over again, with the part of the prophet a
little altered, for the Jesuit was introduced to give us his blessing, and
behold, he had altogether cursed us. As I have not seen the context, I
feel some hesitation in giving an opinion, but the sentence as it stands
—neque fas est tabulas interrogare—can only mean that it is a sin to
inquire of tables, and the use of the word fas implies the moral guilt
attaching to the practice. I merely wish to correct a mistake and not
to find fault with Father Grury, for if I were to write a book for students
of theology, I certainly should not recommend them interrogare
tabulas. F. W. Percival.
15, Conduit-street, W., June 17th.
Sir,—About the apparent mistranslation of last week. The theological
work quoted is arranged in a series of affirmative and negative pro¬
positions, put antithetically; the one quoted from page 132 of Gury
being more clearly explicable by reference to page 131, and other pre¬
ceding pages. Of course no one would accept the definition of fas as
ought but an equivalent of jus. A desire not to overburden the pages
of The Spiritualist with a very long quotation led to the brevity which
has apparently confused some readers.
The Translator.
In response to the suggestion of Mr. C. C. Massey of The Temple
that one hundred copies of Psychography be distributed by a committee
among men of note, provided that number is subscribed for by
Spiritualists for the purpose, names and amounts have so far been
entered as to cover the cost of fifty.
The B.ev. H, B. Hawets.—The Dublin University Magazine some
time ago published a likeness and outline of the life of the Rev. H. R.
Haweis, M.A., in whose church of St. James’s, Westmoreland-street,
Marylebone, so many Spiritualists may be found at every Sunday
morning service. The magazine says :—“ Hugh Reginald Haweis was
born at Egham, on the 3rd of April, 1838, and is the eldest son of the
Rev. J. O. W. Haweis, present rector of Slaugham, Sussex. His
mother, Mary Davies, was the daughter of a retired civilian in the
India Company’s service. His grandfather, the late Dr. Thomas
Haweis, rector of Aldwinkle, was one of the founders of the London
Missionary Society, a trustee of Lady Huntingdon, and an eminent light
of the Evangelical party at the commencement of this century. Our
subject was an eccentric child, with a sharp touch of wit, a keen critical
faculty, and a precocious power of observation; fond of every kind of
athletic exercise, but by no means enamoured of the school-room. On
leaving Egham, at a very early age, he lived for several years at Crown-
lane, Lower Norwood, usually coming to Spanish-place, Manchester-
square, to visit his grandfather, at Christmas. . While in town he was
taken by his godmother, at the age of seven or eight, to Portman Chapel,
where he still remembers being much struck with the Rev. Mr. Reeves’s
explanation of the . Atonement, which consisted in satisfying divine
justice by punishing the innocent for the guilty. He has often won¬
dered since how any one above the age of seven or eight could be con¬
tented with such an explanation. But whilst living to preach a very
different doctrine within a stone’s throw of Mr. Reeves’s chapel, he has
always expressed the highest regard for that excellent clergyman’s
personal character and pulpit abilities.” Further on the record sets
forth:—“ In 1859 Haweis took his B.A. degree. It was then decided
by his father that he should travel, and he started alone for Italy. After
visiting Milan and the lakes, he fell in with Mr. Montague Chambers
and Major Byng Hall at Genoa, and in 1860 steamed for Naples, then
in the full ferment of Garibaldi’s successful revolution. He witnessed
the glowing entry of the enthusiastic Liberator into Naples, experienced
not a few exciting and dangerous adventures in that city, then fired
with the hot flame of revolution ; and left it finally in company with his
brother, an officer in Her Majesty’s navy, to be present at the siege of
Capua. The journey, performed on foot, was attended with no small
risk of life itself, and many times along the white dusty roads they could
hear the bullets of the sharpshooters whistling about their ears. Arrived
at the scene of action, he managed, by outwitting the sentries, to pass
into the heart of Garibaldi’s camp. “ All about,” he described, “in the
plain beneath the hill on which we stood lay the poor Garibaldians, ill-
clothed, ill-fed, with no tents at all, exposed to the scorching sun by
day, and often lying in absolute swamps at night, under a pelting rain.
Passing on to watch the heavy guns at work against the white walls of
Capua, a shell burst at our feet, reminding us that we were within range.
As I left my post a Garibaldian sat down carelessly on the rock on
which I had been standing, when a shell took him in the middle and
blew him to pieces.”
KNOWLEDGE OF PHYSICS NOT THE HIGHEST ORDER
OF INTELLECTUALITY.
“ The gentlemen of the crucible and the retort must bring it home to
themselves that mere chemistry may enable a man to be an apothecary,
but that it does not make him a philosopher. Certain kindred spirits
among the naturalists, too, should understand that a man may be a
consummate zoologist, have the sixty sorts of apes strung together in
perfect order, yet, knowing nothing besides, except a few scraps of his
Catechism, be on the whole an ignorant man, merely one of the vulgar.
This, however, is a common case at the present day. People set them¬
selves up as teachers of mankind. They have studied chemistry, or
physics, or mineralogy, or zoology, or physiology, but have studied
nothing in the world besides. They put alongside this the only other
knowledge they possess—the little of the Catechism that has stuck to
them since their school days. If the two pieces will not fit well
together, they immediately set themselves to scoff at religion, and by
and by sink down into insipid, shallow materialism. That there was
once such a man as Plato or Aristotle, or Locke or Kant, they have
perhaps heard at school; but then these men did not handle a crucible,
nor did they ever stuff an ape; it is not, therefore, worth while
becoming better acquainted with them. So the results of two thousand
years’ intellectual labour are flung out of the window, and from their
own abundant mental resources, with their Catechism in one hand, and
their crucible, retort, and list of monkeys in the other, they set them¬
selves to preach philosophy to the public. They deserve to be told
roundly that they are ignorant, that their discourse cannot be listened
to till they are better instructed. In fact, all those silly, childish
Realists who come forward to dogmatise about the soul, God, the origin
of the world, atomism, and so forth, just as if the Criticism of Pure
Reason had been written in the moon and no copy of it had ever
reached the earth, belong to the uneducated vulgar. Let them to the
servants’ hall, and there make show of their wisdom.’’—Schopenhauer.
Ueber den Willen in der Natur. Preface to second edition.
Mrs. Margaret Kane (Maggie Fox) is in Holland.
The Chicago Inter-Ocean asked Col. Bundy, editor of the Religio-
Philosophical Journal, whether he had ever been at a fraud proof seance
for form manifestations. He was obliged to say, “ No,” which shows
how much time has been wasted over inconclusive seances of this class
in his district, and how favourable the conditions have been there for
the performance of sham manifestations by persons not mediums.
Mediums for test manifestations in daylight have been scarce in
London since the days of Mrs. Mary Marshall. If any American
medium could get the same kind of manifestations under the same con¬
ditions, and if he or she arrived here before the beginning of next
winter, we think that exceedingly remunerative engagements would be
the result. Good test mediums, who scarcely ever fail, do well in
London. A never-failing test slate-writing medium would be much
valued. Just now there is a strong unsupplied demand for daylight
manifestations of nearly all kinds.
A Seance with Mr. Williams.—Last Monday night, in the course
of a dark seance with Mr. Williams, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street,
London, the spirit “Peter” materialised and showed his face and
shoulders two or three times by means of a flashing light, over the
centre of the table, and sometimes over that part of the table farthest
from Mr. Williams. The sitters on either side of the medium testified
that he was in his chair, and that they were holding his hands at the
time. The same manifestation has often been witnessed in private
houses when Mr. Williams has attended alone, as a medium. In the
course of the evening the musical instruments flew about the room as
usual.
Psychical Laws Invariable.—A neat little monthly sheet of Spirit¬
ualistic news, entitled The Spiritual Reporter, is published at 85,
Mottram-road, Hyde, Manchester. In its first number Mr. John
Lament says : — “ Spiritualism urges the necessity to develop our
nature in its threefold capacity, viz., physical, mental, and spiritual,
thus teaching the divine order by which man grows out of darkness
into light; that he is now a spiritual being, amenable to spiritual
laws, and capable of realising that the kingdom of heaven is attainable
before the material body is thrown off; and that the condition of life in
the next world is based upon our conduct in this. Disobey the spiritual
law of life, and it is as unrelenting as disobedience to the laws that govern
the physical system. Spiritual fire will punish just as severely as
physical fire, and it behoves all men to studiously regard and under¬
stand the various laws by which they are surrounded.”
Spiritualistic Concert and Testimonial.—The committee to Mr.
Eglinton’s testimonial write that—The concert and presentation will
take place at the Beethoven Rooms, 27, Harley-street, W., on Tuesday
next, July 2nd, 1878. Programme:—Part I.—Pianoforte solo, “ Faust ”
(Sydney Smith), Miss Holyoake ; song, “ The way through the wood ”
(Madame Dolby), Miss Leslie-Younge ; recit, “I feel the Deity
within” (Judas); air, “ Arm, arm, ye brave,” Mr. Alfred Moore ; song,
“Page’s Song” (Arditi), Signora Ida Corani; recitation, “A Friendly
Horse ’’ (James M. Bailey), Mr. Frank Dietz ; song, “ Nobil Donna ”
(Meyerbeer), Signora Elena Corani; song, “ My Queen ” (Blumenthal).
Mr. Ernest A. Tietkens ; songs, A “ In a distant land” (Taubert), B
“Lullaby” (Brahms), Signora Ida Corani. Part II., presentation to
Mr. Willie Eglinton:—Quartet, “ Poet and Peasant,” Miss Holyoake,
Herren Prutz, Greiffenhngen, and Mr. Wright; song, “ Why ” (Cowen).
Mr. Ernest A. Tietkens; song, “I dreamt that I dwelt” , (Ba^e)»
Signora Elena Corani; song, “ The Village Blacksmith ” (Weiss), Mr,
Alfred Moore; recitation, “Luke” (Bret Harte), Mr. Frank Dietz;
song, “Waiting” (Millard),Miss Leslie-Younge.
June 28, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
811
THE OLD, OLD PROBLEMS.
BT ALICE GORDON.
These lines (written two years ago) were a first attempt at expressing in
verse the difficulties which perplexed my mind before I became a Spiritualist.
I know there are many in the present day who fully sympathise in the
sentiments, and I can only wish that they also may learn the truth of
Spiritualism.
My Faith is shipwrecked on the sea of doubt,
Anchor of hope my soul is now without;
Storm-worn and weary, in the dark I stray,
No guiding star to light me on my way.
Surrounded by the mystery of Life,
Awe-struck and spell-bound by its dreary strife,
I ask, Why here ? Whence came we ? Whither go ?
No answer comes ; I feel we cannot know.
In Revelation’s pages some can see
A scheme, to which, they think, they hold the key ;
Goodness and truth are clearly there, I own, *
But mixed with fables to which man is prone.
At first he worships lifeless stock and stone,
Then Sun and Moon his trembling homage own ;
He hears th’ Almighty’s voice when thunder roars,
Or calls a book His Word, and it adores.
No more for me doth Revelation shine;
All good may be inspired, all ti-uth divine ;
But in this book I see no special Hand,
E’en tho’ the best it be that man has planned.
I seek in Nature’s never-failing laws
To gain some knowledge of the Great First Cause ;
Much beauty there, but why, midst all I see,
Must sorrow, suffering, for ever be ?
Creation’s wonder fills the mind with awe—
I feel it must be perfect, without flaw ;
And, yet, all living creatures groan and bend
Beneath the struggles on which life depend.
The brute, no more than man, can live at eas6;
His lot the kindly heart with sorrow sees;
And, surely, this refutes the common phrase,
That man, for sin, doth suffer all his days.
Was, then, all living kind for his sin curst ?
All suffer equally, he not the worst;
Would he with brutes exchange ? consent to lose
The mind which makes him on Creation muse ?
With it he reads the heavens above; .
Learns how the planets in their orbits move ;
And, searching in the depths of this our earth,
Would count the ages since it first took birth ;
With it, prys into nature’s secret stores,
Learns what the sea contains, the earth what ores ;
Lives in the past, and dreams of future bliss
In other worlds more beautiful than this.
But all this knowledge gained, he’s only shown
How little man can know ; and must bemoan
That, search in nature howe’er far he will,
Himself, his God, are wrapped in mystery, still.
As bends the branch much laden with sweet fruit,
In seeming reverence to its parent root;
So humbly bows the head with knowledge filled,
Seeking, in awe, the power which all things willed.
And so, to reconcile to his own mind
That power at once omnipotent and kind,
He makes himself the author of his fall,
To leave his God, perfection, spite of all.
But short must be the sight which does, not see
That contradiction here must surely be.
Omnipotence makes man god-like in all,
Then sends a devil to contrive his fall.
Our judgment fails us when we try to scan
God’s dealings with his own weak creature man;
We scarce can say where good and ill begin,
Why this is virtue, that the worst of sin. ■
What sins have we to answer ? Not our birth;
Unsought our life or sojourn on this earth;
No choice was given to take, or to refuse,
That boon which some regret and some misuse.
Born with some vices, with some good desires—
Inheritance bequeathed us by our sires;
Some blessed with education, some denied
All knowledge save the worst with sin allied.
Are we responsible if ’tis our fate
Never to learn at all, or learn too late,
That good and evil are for us to choose,
And at our peril we the good refuse ?
, Some think we have an instinct pointing true,
Teaching the good to love, the bad eschew;
But look where’er I will, I see no trace
Of such an instinct in the human race.
Just as a stream, here rippling past sweet flowers,
Down yonder in its vortex all devours;
So once, a virtue lauded to the skies,
Becomes, one cycle thence, a vice unwise.
Must we, then, own the truth beyond our ken,
Nor strive to prove the ways of God to men;
But trust that He who made us with the rest,
Has not condemned us to be most unblest?
Oft comes the thought, can this life be our all,
Which few enjoy, in which e’en pleasure pall;
And why are higher aspirations given,
If suffering mortals are to know no heaven ?
Is it an instinct makes us dread to think
That all is o’er when Lethe’s cup we drink ?
Or Nature’s life-preserving law alone,
Excites the wish to thus prolong our own ?
Ah l who can tell ? The dead return no more,
To warn, or comfort, those so loved before;
Our fate it is to struggle on in gloom,
Without e’en glimpses of our future doom.
On narrow mountain pass, as ’twere we stand,
Blinded by drifting snow, no guide at hand ;
Dreading to move, lest precipice be near;
Yet, moving not, we die of cold and fear.
Still, let us not despair, but bravely use
The litlle light wo have, and virtue choose ;
For happier far this life with wisdom ruled,
By loving deeds and self-denial schooled.
Thus may we worthy be to meet our end,
Leaving, at least, a name the good commend;
Convinced that He who holds all worlds in space
Has ordered wisely for the human race.
DUBIOUS MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA.
Constantly within the last few weeks incidents have
occurred proving the harm done to Spiritualism in private
circles at the West End of London, by the invitation of
inquirers to cabinet materialisation seances not held under
test conditions. At dark seances, while the hands of the
mediums are held by disbelievers, materialised spirit hands
do all kinds of wonderful things all over the room, to the
satisfaction of everybody. Those hands, when seen, are
nearly always the duplicates of the hands of the medium,
but whiter, paler, and cooler on their first formation;
gradually they acquire more warmth and vital energy from
his hands, till they become more perfect duplicates. When
the same mediums are, perhaps, but a few minutes later
placed in cabinets, the same duplication goes on, and of
faces as well as of hands ; but when there are no test con¬
ditions, inquirers cannot be expected to believe that faces
and hands like those of the medium are not his own,
especially when he could just as easily present them as not.
The medium ought either to be in full view, or taped and
sealed in a cabinet by the inquirer whenever these seances
are used for proselytising purposes. This course is so
frequently not taken, that nine out of ten honest inquirers
have been driven away from Spiritualism, believing the
seances to be imposture; but some accidental circumstance,
not due to intelligent forethought, has here and there given
evidence to the tenth inquirer that what he saw was genuine.
These cabinet seances, when not held under test conditions, are
worse than no seances at all; they drive away nearly all
honest inquirers who see them. Although with accredited
mediums we believe the phenomena to be nearly always
genuine, yet they are worse than worthless when presented
to disbelievers without evidence of honesty, and have re¬
cently proved to be most injurious to the movement. Unless
a medium is noted for regular test materialisation seances,
no inquirer should be invited to see his materialisation
phenomena.
Liberty sustains the same relation to mind that space does to matter,
—Ingersoll.
Mrs. Scattergood is now residing at 146, Pleasant-street, Fall
River, Mass., America.
Mr. and Mrs. Bliss, who recently practised much swindling and
imposture at seances in America, are now giving genuine test mani¬
festations. They are strong mediums, but destitute of morality.
A Yankee Story.—The latest story of the American Spiritualists is
as follows:—A sceptical fellow obtained admission to a seance the other
day whereat Daniel Webster habitually materialised, walking from a
cabinet across the room and looking as he had looked in life, but
making no sound of footstep. This base-minded man tossed a number
of tacks on the floor, and as they had very large heads they, of course,
fell point upwards. The consequence was that when Dan came out of
the cabinet and began to walk across the room he suddenly paused,
and lifting one foot applied his hand to the sole thereof. Upon taking
another step he suddenly drew up again, and in a low voice ejaculated,
“ Ugh! ” Shortly after this he lost his balance and sat down on the
floor, immediately became very profane, and retreated into the cabinet
greatly disgusted with matter.—The Echo.
Wolves in Sheep’s Clothing.—The pickpockets, it is said, have
taken to attend fashionable weddings, and have reaped large harvests
from their participation in the nuptial service; but this, after all, is
only a revival, of a very old practice. George Barrington was a regular
churchgoer, orthodox in his support of the Establishment, and seldom
condescending to patronise Dissenting chapels, and he usually came
away from church richer than he went. During the Great Exhibition
of 1851 a surprising amount of plunder was netted by a rogue who had
the impudence to dress himself up as a Bishop in walking costume, silk
apron, M.B. waistcoat, shovel-hat, gaiters, and all; and thus disguised
he assiduously frequented the building in Hyde-park, easing the pockets
of all and sundry of their contents. The detectives took him for a
“ Colonial,” and never suspected him.—Telegraph.
312
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 28, 1878.
DR. FRANZ HOFFMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
The Sunday Herald of Denison, Texas, recently printed a
translation of a letter sent by Dr. Franz Hoffman, Professor
of Natural Philosophy at Wurzburg University, Germany,
and Hon. Mem. of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, to Messrs. Burhans and Kuehn, of Denison.
In the course of the letter Dr. Hoffman says :—
The force manifesting itself in so-called mediums, if pro¬
ducing ideas, can but be a spiritual one. Either the ideas
written down by the medium emanate unconsciously from
his inner self, or from other spiritual beings. A fusion of
both may take place with either of the factors predominating.
By far the majority of cases point as their cause to spiritual
beings beyond this world, and mostly to departed ones from
earth-life. It were in vain to seek the cause of transmission
of ideas in something devoid of ideas, or a mere {blind') natural
force. Whoever seeks for such may find a something, but
never the thing sought for. ... A large number of medial
writings at least can only proceed from departed spirits, and
prove, consequently, the continuation of man beyond this
life; although the continuation, the immortality, can and
has been proven philosophically, for instance by Bender,
Heinrich, Ritter, Herman, and Ulrich, as also—in different
modes, however—by Yon Leibnitz, Kant, Schelling, Meisner,
and Fichte. The facts of so-called materialisations are
entirely undeniable, and, to some extent, I deem even spirit-
photography • certain. For a wider search in this sphere,
should you feel inclined to investigate, I can recommend the
periodical, Psychological Studies, by Aksakof, edited by
Wittig, Leipzig, and published by Oswald Mutze.
This periodical is in its fifth annual course. You will find
in almost every monthly number one of my articles, as also
in a Spiritualistic-materialistic periodical published previ¬
ously by Meisner and Mutze (two annual editions), in which
you will meet with the best and most important information
about Bender’s philosophical point of view, and also extracts j
from the fourth volume of his work, in which he anticipates j
Spiritualism and spirit manifestations. Of German philb- j
sophers, aside from myself (Max Perty is more a naturalist), j
I. H. Fichte, the ingenious son of the great L G. Fichte I
(at present in the eighty-second year of his life), has in the j
third edition of his Anthropology declared himself openly
for Spiritualism.
Shortly after this, Perty’s work appeared. The matter I
enters into a new stage in Germany through the genial j
astro-physicist Zollner, of Leipzig, who recently in the first
volume of his Discussions of Physical Science, published at i
Leipzig by Starkman in 1878, records a successful experi¬
ment accomplished through him with the American medium |
Slade. This fact is very remarkable and will create quite a
sensation. The February number of Psychological Studies j
contains an introductory essay on the matter.
Without the theory of spirit influence the apparitions
cannot possibly be explained. That a strict investigator, a j
highly-gifted naturalist, should declare himself publicly for |
Spiritualism cannot be but of importance. Several Ameri- !
cans honour me with communications, for instance, Sargent, j
Bloede, Sylvan (Tiedeman), &c.
The eminent Russian privy councillor, Alexander Aksakof j
(not to be confounded with the pantheist of the same name), j
has published at Leipzig a library of Spiritualism in fourteen
volumes, in the German language, among which can be j
found works by the Americans, Davis, Hare, Edmonds,
Owens, and also by the Englishman, Wallace. For infor¬
mation for beginners two books of Wallace are most service¬
able. Still more elementary is a book by Rechenberg, The |
Mystery of the Day (Leipzig : Spaner, 1853). Worthy of !
notice, especially, in consequence of undeniable facts, is the
book by Philip Timm, Intimations of Some Important Points j
of Modern American Spiritualism and Harmonial Philosophy . \
New York, printed at New York Press, No. 7, Frankfort- |
street, 1873.
The fact that I have published the works of Franz Bender,
the great philosopher (as Thomson calls him), in sixteen j,
volumes, with introductions, notes, biography, and corre¬
spondence (1850-1860), may be known to you. Up to the
present, five volumes of my philosophical works (1868-1878, |
Erlangen Deichert) have appeared. The remaining half j
shall follow, if sufficient public interest is manifested.
j CRYSTALLOMANCY.
( | BY KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE, IX°.
h I perceive in our friend the Reverend W. StaintoU-
| Moses’s able summary of the work of the session, a brief re-
| ference to the paper on Crystallomancy, which I had the
| honour to read before the British National Association of
| Spiritualists on the 25th March last. There are two errors
> I in his notice that I am sure you will allow me to correct.
| | The first is the presumption that the mirror spirits are the
> | sub-humans of the Occultists. Nothing can be further from
! j the fact, in so far as we trust the statements made by them
J | —statements I have never had reason to doubt, they having
I j been confirmed by numberless additional and unexpected
II circumstances. They are what they profess to be, spirits
| j once on this or other earth, or spirits having superior in-
| telligent being, but never embodied anywhere. I called it a
new and peculiar world, because it has its own code of laws,
| its own system of metaphysics, its own views of the cosmical
universe, and its own theological interpretation of the inter-
I relations between God and man, God and His spirits and
angels. Many of these views by no means coincided with
those I had been led by education to entertain, nor do I hold
them now they would startle Protestant and Roman
Catholic alike, if given to the world. But the universe,
being infinite in expansion, allows space, or rather states in
which all opinions may be held. The myriad stellar regions
are so placed, physically and spiritually, that their inhabitants
behold the Author of All, each from a different standpoint;
| and, from the nature of things, each with a certain amount
of imperfection. Hence no statement, however greatly
| supported, possesses more than a relative degree of authority.
1 It is nevertheless possible, by the comparison of results, to
arrive at some degree of approximation to general truth.
The second error is of very minor importance. Mr. Stainton-
| Moses says that my experience in the wide range of
| Spiritualism, proper has not been such as to enable me to
I grasp its significance. I might point out that in my paper
| I only professed to treat of mirrors, and crystals, and water-
| vessels. I do not know, but I think that an‘experience ex-
| tending from 1851 to 1878, during which time I have seen
| almost every form of Spiritualism known to exist, and some
| forms not known to Spiritualists at large, should have enabled
| me to do so.
I may be very dense, but I ultimately came to prefer the
| system of mirror and crystal work to any other, because
by its means it was possible to explain the rest. Of forms
I have not seen, I cannot judge. As to grasping the
| significance of Spiritualism, there are more ways than one of
I doing this. I take it, however, in its most serious sense, and
I say sincerely and solemnly, either elect to treat its revela-
| tions, however given, with the same simplicity of mind you
| devote to your earthly form of faith, or decline to have any-
| thing to do with it. There is no occasion to stigmatise any
phase presented ; and all will then go well. I recommend
no one to study any form of spiritual intercourse, unless pre¬
pared to accept the weighty responsibility which ensues when
proselytes are sought, or the faith of others is attempted to
be influenced.
Rather than one mind should be rendered unsettled and
therefore unhappy, it would be better that the whole of this
series of investigations should cease and determine. The
ridicule which has been heaped upon it by the unthinking is
| of no moment at all; but there are many persons who get
{ to a certain point at which they are frightened, and hence
they cannot proceed. These people forget that above and
beyond every phenomena, however terrifying in itself, is the
I Almighty Power, Wisdom, and Love of the Father of all
| angels and spirits, from whom alone we may hope to learn
how “to grasp its significance.”
] Hounslow, June 22, 1878.
j Mrs. Louisa Andrews, of Springfield, Massachusetts, has arrived
I in Brighton.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
| Most of our correspondents put their names and addresses to their communi-
i cations for publication, and such letters take precedence. Readers often
| wish to make inquiries of those who do not do so, but are cut off from
| communication with them by their anonymity. The public interests of
j Spiritualism require that all statements of fact shall be as fully authen¬
ticated as possible.
June 28, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting :and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s,“Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to-him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. ..HI. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . •
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . '
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
.70
. 7 6
7 6
7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 0
.70
. 0 0
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 0
3 0
. 7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .20
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 0
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Goll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge D.D.  . 10 6
Myths.and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind:; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Gongestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 0
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Side . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by, Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp (Jloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free In. Id.
88, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientiflo man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-coneeived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Orookes and Wallace, in favour net
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly seientifle spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states oecurrenees and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—^Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—^Experiments
—^Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
v Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Bane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumsmp of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles' Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism —Old Reve
lations Made New — Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt-
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&.
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-steeet.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £1 IQs,
London: W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.<J.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OE CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject. •
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight,—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P, Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E' idence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Ba»
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidence
C. Garter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)’), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the tranee-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmpnd—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham i Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres oi Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. -By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe^-A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism, By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A, Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—.
Meditation and the Voicr of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
Wallace,’F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” cr
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,'
IV
THE SPIRIT UALIST,
June 28, 1878.
NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS-
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
IN O’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GUYING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Siomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, anjl thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1377. *'
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO :
KNOW.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes
1 “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
F^NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
-i “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OOGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which It is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face. Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useftil.for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit, in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons ihe blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.   
ENO’S FRUIT SALT;
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by Its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled ; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used. I have
no hesitation In stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the lahd would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. End.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—ff I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”-.
T. Wood, Jun., Tudbr-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART,caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
erless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the nrst
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
toallmy friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please —I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett,”'
Aug. 80,1877—10, Yofk-squafe,’ Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENQ’S FRUIT SALT.” ' Without it
you have been imposed on by a,-worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt,'Froit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
ScltAfftnf for Farw—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIZ.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. BARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man —6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Fosf, which strongly recommends the hook.ln a
review nearly a column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly, deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly, becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr . Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only,to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for .years. ..,
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome, from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw ballads.—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like ills can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.]'
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. • The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured." .
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and tlie imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); A.M. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”’
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social,'but
all of them excellent. .. . The Lazy Lays will make.excellent and
amusing re^dingfor an occasional spare half-hour.'.-.; They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is' well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author It is naturally to he expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work Is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Jngoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers. ’
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Sbacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in Th* Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A; curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans's or L E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious'works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
_ . From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cas.t of Its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobplejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.b. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor arid Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is "bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
■W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Musi&j-Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Bioiogy, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental: Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at VVill by thciSubjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the-Head in the Sleep'—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are 'Oases in which these Act,
and others in which- they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of-Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—HisOdyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the-Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
-CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XVTrance—Extasis — Cases —Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Go., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Alien, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
