IIegisteiikd as A Newspapeh.
S>ff) joUf{K^i<
_ S'!* #K»tsi ptoppr laaiactth toit| Sjbitualiiim in ®wat |3iiiaiK.
NO. 377. (VOL. XV.—No. 20.) LONDON I IRIDA.Y, NOVEMBER 14*, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
IESIEEISI, WITH HIHTS EOE BE&IHIERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism,
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together
the results of his own experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in winch it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should be treated; and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to the progress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. 3?. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, G IR G A U M BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “The Proprietors of 1 The Theosophist,' ” at the above address.-
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol. I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
lECHAIISI OE IAI.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,”
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS.
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majestys Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qxiality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five pel’ cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W,
11
THE SPlHiTtFALIST.
Hoy. 1-i, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, TV.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
H E A YE N AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trtjbner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
'The SjJiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and setting
forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The KEY. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BT
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. ... It is eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
spirits before our eyes.
By WILLIAM H. HABRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
GouL Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnreh (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, ail pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1. Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR F. 0. MATTHEWS,
CLAIRVOYANT, TEST, AND HEALING
MEDIUM,
Is in Town, and will he open to engagements from
October 25 to November 15.
Addebss—2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.O.
F. O. MATTHEWS,
CLAIRVOYANT, TRANCE, TEST AND
HEALING MEDIUM,
35, CAVENDISH TERRACE, WEST HILL PARK
HALIFAX, YORKSHIRE.
MR. A. H. FIRMAN
(Medium of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
HOME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eight
o’clock, at his Rooms
26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON.
Mr. Firman will be at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 5, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square.
TfyfRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
xy-JL of the Fox Sisters, of New York City, U.S.
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday,
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to io, either at house of party or at Mrs.
Kane’s rooms, must be made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances will be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
pHjARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\_J DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
$, 3fiSDi&id t*;f ttf to &wX ethics ixf SpitiituaUsr*^
No. 377,—VOJ-.UjVIE FIFTEEN; NujMBER TWENTY,
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER lAth, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
Os. 10d. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Unioh.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HAEEISON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Eight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.E.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel.Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.R.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal,Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog. 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of LAght Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S,; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
npHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes bv which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE PROGRESS OF PSYCHOLOGY *
> | BY EDWARD W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW, PRESIDENT OF THE
- PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Has psychology made any and what progress
j during the five years of the existence of this Society?
)j That is the question I propose to answer to-night.
To do so, I must revert to the origin of our
)j Association.
THE RELATIONSHIP OF PSYCHOLOGY TO MATERIALISM.
Materialism—by which term I mean the dogma
)j that man is material merely, soul a myth, and exis-
s; tence after the mechanism of the body has ceased to
) j be, the dream of poets or the delusions of priests—
Yj materialism, in this sense, was proclaimed by the
<| high priests of science upon public platforms and in
) i popular periodicals.
It had become “ the fashion,” under divers names.
>| To question it was to be voted unscientific. Hope
(j and faith were shattered in many minds, and all
minds were more or less disturbed.
A cry of anguish and despair went up from multi-
j j tudes whose confidence in man and his destiny had
j | been thus rudely shaken. “ Can it be,” they said,
j | “ that man everywhere and at all times has believed
(| soul, that is, himself, as being something other than
) | the body, if there be no truth in such a creed ? Is
(| there no evidence of the existence of soul ? Is there
) j no proof of its being ? Is such proof really unattain-
u able, as the scientists say ? Is psychology a baseless
/ j science ? Why have we not a society that will in-
v| vestigate the mechanism of man precisely as the
){ other sciences are investigated—a society for obser-
\ | vatiou of phenomena, gathering of facts, and reasoning
(| to conclusions from those facts; a society that will
\| combat materialism with its own weapons, meeting it
I! not with dogma but with demonstration ?
This Association was an answer to that complaint.
Our programme was short and explicit. The
Psychological Society of Great Britain was formed
purposely to' investigate the forces by which the
mechanism of man is moved and directed. Two
j facts were not disputed. The motions of that
| mechanism are automatic. The motive force is
| within the mechanism. But in addition to this
) j there is a directing force—a force also within the
(i mechanism—that determines the amount of the
j| motive force, the manner of its exercise, the ends to
\ | which it shall be applied.
When it is charged against us that psychology is a
u very vague science (if it be even entitled to the
jj name of science), we answer with this definition,
| which has the merit of brevity, simplicity, and com-*
) i prehensiveness, and may challenge comparison with
| the definition of any other science.
(• * The sixth annual presidential address to the Psychologica.l Society of Gres
Britain, delivered on Thursday, last week.
230 THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 14, L879.
The promulgation of this definition of psychology
was in itself a great step in the path of progress, for
hitherto the name had been very vaguely used. We
now know precisely what we mean by psychology,
and we are enabled to convey that meaning distinctly
to other's. No adversary can now. pretend that he
does not understand what psychology is, nor can
any now deny that it has a very real something to
investigate, and that the subjects of it demand
investigation.
PSYCHOLOGY AND METAPHYSICS.
The second forward step has been the severance of
psychology from metaphysics. This has been the
triumph of very recent years. Many among us can
remember the time when psychology was looked
upon as a purely metaphysical study, and was so
held and treated even by its votaries. Most of those
who, with myself, are declining in the vale of years,
and on whose brows, to use the beautiful Welsh
“metaphor,, the' flowers' of the grave are blooming,
will remember with what eagerness they plunged
into that which was called “ Philosophyhow they
revelled in diverging theories of mind, its powers and
capacities, as imagined by the ingenuity of such
’thinkefs as Reid,' and Stewart, and Hamilton, and
Browne;—theories evolved from their inner conscious¬
ness, and moulded entirely from introspection instead
of observation; how they rose from these studies
charmed but not enlightened; their intellects, indeed,
refined and strengthened by exercise, but nothing
added to their positive knowledge. The first con¬
ception of a real psychology, based upon observation
and experiment—as a science founded upon facts—
was undoubtedly due to Gall and his fellow-labourer
Spurzheim, who taught that mind must be explored,
like the body, by noting its various developments in
various persons, and then seeking if there be in the
structure of those individuals any and what peculiari¬
ties apparently associated with these developments.
If they were successful in their researches, if the
coincidences they noted were actual or only acci¬
dental, is still a subject of dispute. But not the
less to them is due the merit of having removed
psychology from the realms of fancy to the region of
fact. They taught the right method of pursuit, even
if they failed to secure its object, and from that
moment we may date a new departure in mental
and psychical science. The influence of that method
was manifest in the works even of its opponents.
Gradually it grew in favour, while its authors were
disowned and discredited. The most notable of its
acknowledged disciples were George and Andrew
Combe, whose works will live to benefit future
generations. They acknowledged the obligation and
boasted themselves disciples. Others less scrupulous,
as the manner is, learned the lesson and ignored
the master. Abercrombie, in his Intellectual
Powers, Dr. Moore, in his Duality of the Mind, and
many of lesser fame, made practical application of
the new and true method of psychological science.
They proved what might be . accomplished for
mental science by noting phenomena and facts,
and now they are but few who venture to treat
of psychology on any other basis. Although
dissenting from many of his conclusions, and pro¬
testing against the unfairness, because onesidedness,
K of many of his judgments, and lamenting that so keen
|) | a mind should be so much the victim of prepossession
i(| and dominant idea, it would be unjust not to recog-
L nise the service done to psychology by Dr. Carpenter
m by accepting the new conditions of study, by the
/j valuable collection of observed facts he has stored up
j (j in his books, and by the popularity which he has thus
|)| given to a science which had been formerly the pro-
{j perty of but few, when in truth it is the science that
j)j more than any other ought to be the possession of
j\| every man, because it is the knowledge of himself.
MR. HERBERT SPENCER ON PSYCHOLOGY.
But more than to any other is psychology indebted
< | to Mr. Herbert Spencer for its present position. He
)j has fully accepted the method of investigation by
(| observation and of study by fact rather than by fancy.
>| He has examined mind as he would have examined
U body, noting its operations—that is to say, what it
)j does under various conditions, and how the forces
(j that move and direct the body manifest themselves
) | in action; but his great achievement—that which
j will make his works for ever valuable, if only as
| j museums of psychological facts—is the bold endeavour
)j to apply to mind the Darwinian theory of evolution.
)j Accepting that new basis of philosophy as indisput-
\j ably true, he contends that, if it be true, it must be
applicable to mind as to body. If man is a develop-
U ment, so must be the mind of man. If the law of
) | the survival of the fittest,” which is the necessary
j accompaniment of evolution, be a reality, and not a
j| magnificent dream, traces of it will be found in the
> mental condition of man as exhibited in the actions
11 and thoughts of men under the various conditions of
>| their being—their present and past histories, and the
(j environments of climatic and other influences., With
) I enormous labour he has gathered together a vast mass
(j of these facts, materials to be hereafter classified,
) I compared, and examined. It is much to be lamented
i that this great student of psychology should have
>i neglected that which, more than any other, must
(j supply material for the investigation of the forces by
> j which the mechanism of man is moved and directed
(! —namely, the action of those forces when the
\ I mechanism is disordered; the observation of mind
I in its abnormal conditions—in sleep, in dream, in
[I insanity, in somnambulism. If Mr. Herbert Spencer
\ j would apply the same laborious industry to collection
II of the facts and phenomena thus exhibited by mind
(: itself, he would lay deep and broad the foundation
| which at present is only a partial one.
And this raises the question why he has avoided
) | so obvious a source of knowledge ? It is not a dread
i of unpopularity, for he dares an open acknowledg-
n ment of materialism. Wherefore,- then, does ho
! decline to enter this straight pathway to what he
(| most desires to learn ?
The reason is too plain. He fears whither it will
! conduct him. Even his great mind is not free from
the influence of prepossession and dominant idea.
| With the late Professor Clifford, Huxley, Tyndall,
and indeed the vast majority of our most eminent
| scientists, he has embraced two conclusions as absolute
truths. First, he assumes that the mechanism of
man is nothing more than the perishable structure
j perceptible by our senses; and, second, that whatever
our senses cannot perceive, even if it be, must
Nov. 14. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 231
necessarily be unknown and unknowable, and there¬
fore that it is a waste of time and toil to seek for it.
Absolutely confident of this assumption^ he and those
who hold with him at once and peremptorily reject
as false or fanciful any phenomena that appear to be
inconsistent with that assumption. It is not with
them a question of evidence—of degree of proof.
No amount of proof will be accepted, because in
their minds the alleged fact is simply impossible.
“ It cannot be,” he says, “ and therefore it is not. It
is useless to look when, even if I saw, I should not
believe. I will not accept the evidence of my senses
as against my preformed mental judgment. I
should prefer to conclude that all my senses are
deceiving me rather than that my mental convictions
should have failed me.”
With such a mental condition it is impossible to
contend. It is deaf to argument. In vain it is
urged that we are as yet on the threshold merely of
science—that our knowledge of Nature and of Nature’s
laws is still very limited—that proofs present them¬
selves almost daily that things science has pronounced
impossible nevertheless come to be. Dogmatism is
not to be moved. But still, as ever it must, the
denied fact lives, and in due time is established, and
then it is found to square with all other scientific
truths because its causes and conditions have been
explored and examined.
(To be continued.)
SPIRITUALISM IN THE PROVINCES.
. Northampton.—Public advocacy of Spiritualism
in this town is almost discontinued. A hall was
opened a few years ago, but, owing to dissensions, had
to be given up. Several mediums, mostly ladies, still
carry on private circles and give tests, but there are
no strong physical mediums. Mrs. Blunt at one time
used to deliver trance addresses, but now simply holds
a private seance. When a professional trance
medium visits the town audiences of from two to
th ree hundred persons can be easily obtained. Mr.
Ward generously opens his house weekly, and occasion¬
ally holds social tea-meetings, and an effort is being
made to secure or build a place to hold meetings in.
A few earnest individuals struggle against the general
apathy, and hope for better days.
Leicester.—Spiritualism in this town is being
brought more prominently before the public. Many
private circles are regularly held, and mediums are
developing who bid fair to be of great service. Sun¬
day services are held both morning and even¬
ing in the lecture room, Silver-street, and there is a
week night meeting for development at the same
place on Thursdays. Mr. J. Bent has had to fight
the battle almost single-handed for a long time,
seconded when possible by Mrs. and Mr. Burdett; but
new members are coming in, advertisements are put
into the papers, and more harmony prevails. When
Miss Brown, Mr. Morse, or Mr. Wallis have visited
the town, the lecture room has been well filled with
respectable audiences, numbering about two hundred
and fifty. The Rev. J. P. Hopps is doing a great
deal to popularise the spiritual philosophy; he con¬
stantly preaches it in his sermons and lectures,
though he does not mention Spiritualism.
Loughborough.—There are a few Spiritualists
11 here, notably Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert, who are always
(j ready to do their best to defend and advance the
>! principles they cherish, and they are ably seconded
(j by Mr. and Mrs. Camm, of Quorndon. There are
)j others in the town who are quite convinced of the
(I facts, but Spiritualism is not respectable enough at
)i present to permit being publicly accepted by them,
(i There are Spiritualists in the surrounding villages,
but the prejudices of the masses are too strong for
(\ these to do much, except in the quietness of their
/ ■ own homes.
Coventry.—There are probably fifty Spiritualists
)| in this town of historical note who dare openly avow
<! themselves, but many more who, Nicodemus-like,
)l dabble in it. Mr. Gutteridge, an intelligent self-
(j taught working man, has been a Spiritualist many
)| years, and does much by consistent conduct and
(| logical defence to win respect from opponents; but
) i the lack of local mediums is greatly felt, there being
(| none, either physical or trance, of any merit.
Birmingham.—At one time Birmingham was a
(| perfect hotbed of liberal and spiritual thought and
) i advocacy, but now the forces are scattered, and
<| nothing like combined effort seems possible. Last
)| winter the Psychological Society held a series of
| public meetings at the Templar Hall, Lady Wood.
(I In point of attendance and respectability these
j | meetings were very encouraging ; but it seemed as
I -though a kind of dry rot set in, one after another the
(\ promoters fell away, till Mr. and Mrs. Groom, the
)| hardest workers, were left alone, with a debt of
)j several pounds to meet. Messrs. Harper and
)| Mahoney are both intelligent advocates, and are
u more or less inspired in their efforts ; but their ser-
j vices have been called for more frequently away
si from Birmingham than at home. Mrs. Groom! is a
)j good healing clairvoyant and trance medium, who
labours assiduously, both privately and in public,
)| with little or no remuneration for her services.. Mr.
)l Perks strives manfully to keep open house, and he
<| conducts Sunday services in a room adjoining his
>| home, but he is far too orthodox to suit the majority
<| of Spiritualists, consequently he meets with little
j support. There are many well-to-do people in Bir-
n mingham who are Spiritualists, and among their
{\ friends proclaim their acceptance of the facts, but
) j they will not identify themselves with any public
efforts. It seems very remarkable that in a town
n like Birmingham so little energy should be mani-
) I fested.
Walsall.—Walsall, near Birmingham, has done
)j itself and the cause justice. A few friends formed a
<| society, rented a large room in the Exchange
! Buildings, and by the aid of the valuable services of
(| Miss Blinkhorn, the local medium, with occasional
> i assistance from Mrs. Groom, Miss Keeves (of Lon-
(! don), Mr. F. O. Matthews, Mr. E. W. Wallis, Mr.
)j Morse, Mr. Harper, and Mr. Mahoney, they have
(j established regular Sunday services, with an average
) I attendance of over a hundred members; and on a
(i recent visit of Mr. Wallis his lecture was listened to
> j by over two hundred persons, while others were shut
(i out, the room being already crowded to excess.
} I Many converts have been made, and Spiritualists,
<1 having become a power in the town, are recognised
232
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 14, 1879.
as a body and respected. The newly-formed Mid- jp
land District Committee has materially aided in j)j
bringing about these results by sending speakers to Ki
this and other towns in the district to hold meetings j)
under their auspices.
Derby.—The first anniversary of the Midland j)
District Committee was recently held in Derby, and K
in the evening a lecture in the trance state was de- I)
livered by Mr. J. J. Morse, and was listened to by a |\
large and very appreciative audience. The Psycho- !/
logical Society of Derby, with Mr. J. J. Morse as K
president, has had much to contend against from |)
within its ranks as well as from without, but is now K
on a firm basis and harmonious in its working, and i)
the coming winter will see increased efforts made to h
demonstrate its usefulness. Here, also, the difficulty j(
prevails of lack of local mediums to be depended j >
upon'; What mediums there are are not inclined |(
to work publicly. The Midland Committee has not I)
met with the appreciation and support this form of \)
organisation is entitled to receive, mainly owing to n
the fact that its claims have not been sufficiently j)
made known in the district.
Nottingham.—Nottingham is in an unenviable j(
position ; it has no spiritualistic place of meeting, no j}
united effort, but, instead, a divided house and in- \(
harmony. I said “No place of meeting;” I ask to n
be excused, but there certainly is not any place of K
meeting where Spiritualists of all shades of opinion ;)
can meet with benefit and comfort. “ The Universal j(
Church of Christ, or Christian Spiritualists,” holds j)
Sunday services in a small building in Barker-gate, and j (
also in an old chapel in Shakespeare-street, where ad- !;
dresses are delivered by Mrs. Barnes and Mrs. Dutton. K
Years ago a successful Lyceum for the young existed j>
in this town, but it fell through, and until within the \(
last year regular Sunday meetings were held by the I;
“Progressive” Spiritualists in Church-gate. But the j(
lease expiring the place was sold, and the free gospel i>
of Spiritualism could be preached there no longer. K
As no other place could be obtained these Spirit- j)
ualists are without a home. There are many Spirit- b
ualists in Nottingham in all classes of society, and not j;
a few mediums of more or less trustworthiness, but j(
there seems to be no possibility of united effort for | >
public dissemination at present; nevertheless, a few K
of the more earnest are determined to make an j)
attempt to start a society this winter, and to take j(
advantage of having Mr. E. W. Wallis as a resident j)
in the town by securing his co-operation.
Belper.'—In this little picturesque village, nestling j)
among the hills, with so much natural, beauty and K
food for reflection and admiration, it would be won- j)
derful if no Spiritualists were found. Though it j)
works quietly without any great public show, there |)
exists a small and select, but harmonious and intelli- |a
gent body of Spiritualists; and since Mrs. Hitch- j)
cock, a well-known trance medium and earnest K
spiritual worker, late of Nottingham, has taken up |/
her abode here and made it her home, a room for K
meeting has been secured, and happy hours of spirit- |/
ual communion are spent. Mr. W. P. Adshead, and K
lately Mr. and Mrs. G. Adshead, and Mrs. Ford, late i>
of Derby, Messrs. Smedley, Wheeldon, Bodell, and K
others, well-known and prominent business persons |)
in the town, lend the weight of their influence and K
presence to the movement; hence the opposition and
intolerance met with in. other places is not felt here.
—Excelsior.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Sm,—In my recent letter my object was to show why the weigh¬
ing machine had no logical relation to spirit materialisations, and
I only incidentally said that it would be desirable if two sceptical
observers like Mr. Massey and Mr. Joad could corroborate from
their experience the evidence of Mr. Blackburn.
I am sorry Mr. Blackburn should mistake my meaning, which
simply was that in these obscure subjects three witnesses are at
least three times as good as one witness.
For myself 1 have had about fifteen opportunities of testing
form manifestation, and in no instance has the supposed spirit-
form differed from the medium except in appearance. I believe
in materialisation, because I have seen and felt such hands in the
presence of Home, the Davenport Brothers, Dotty Fowler, and
many others; and if hands can be formed, why should the entire
body not be formed ?
It would seem, however, that hands are probably about twenty
times as easy to form as the entire body, and hence the entire
body is rarely completed.
I further believe in the materialisation of the entire body from
the evidence of Mr. Crookes, Miss Kisliugbury, Mr. Tapp, Mr.
Stainton-Moses, and others; and I believe in the astounding
appearance of Samuel Wheeler in the light, Monck being at 1 he
same time visible and in the light, on the testimony of Mr.
Moses, Mrs. Going, and others; and, lastly, such productions
are entirely in conformity with my spiritual philosophy.
I gladly accept every permission to attend seances for this
object, and I do trust that one day I may be able to say, “I am
as certain of the reality of these forms as I am absolutely con¬
vinced of the reality of slate-writing.”
These are profound subjects, and it behoves us to be as w ise
and truthful as possible in their investigation.
I never attended a seance for form manifestations when on the
appearance of the white figure the audience has not said—“ It is
impossible that can be the medium, for it is from six inches to a
foot taller.”
In all these cases I have carefully observed the height of the
figure, and on afterwards comparing it with the medium I have
found the height exactly the same, notwithstanding the power
some mediums have had of elongation. It is thp white dress
which gives the optical delusion of greater height.
Nolan, a spirit who speaks through Mrs. Billing, says that “ in
many instances the supposed spirit is only the medium, covered
with an outer garment produced by electric forep, manufactured
from the air. Spirits have thus the power to make female
mediums appear even as men.”
If so, this may explain the almost instantaneous way in which
the supposed spirit disappears and the medium is found alone
and in her ordinary dress; although it does not explain how
naked feet can be converted into booted feet. But does this
change ever take place instantaneously ?
George Wtld, M.D.
A REJOINDER.
Sir,—1 have never had anything but the highest opinion of
Dr. Slade and his great gifts; and he was not the American
medium who was in my mind during the interview. I must
decline continuing a controversy unbecoming to gentlemen and
Spiritualists. Mr. Massey need not trouble about an apology.
He commenced the controversy, and he can close it when it best
suits him. I am quite indifferent to what he may say.
J. William Fletcher.
22, Gordon-gtreet, London, W.C., November 8, 1879.
Mr. G. C. Joad has left England, and intends to pass the
winter, as usual, in the South of France.
Miss K. S. Cook’s private and free seances are held every
Tuesday evening, at half-past seven, at 33, Museum-street,
Holborn, under permission of Mr. C. Blackburn. Admissions
obtainable only from Miss Cook, 53, Eleanor-road, Hackney,
London.
Nov. 14, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
233
A MS. BALLAD, SEVENTEENTH CENTURY.
Has the following ballad ever been printed ? It
is taken from a MS. copy in a hand of the beginning
of the seventeenth century, the words in brackets
being supplied where the paper is decayed.
[Farye well the c]hurch of Adlingtinme,'*
[The windows] be of glass ;
[Full often times] have I gon that way,
[When Ch]rist hath binn at mass ;
[And all] was for'that bonny wenches sake,
[That now is] dead, alias !
[For allake!] shall I never se hir no more.
[Farye well] the dark of Adlingtunne,
For he will mak ady,
[Who bu]ilded the chirch of lime and stonne
[Upon t]he hill so high;
[And all] was for that bonny wenches sake,
[That] now she lies therby !
For allake ! shall I never se hir no more.
Farye well the streates of Adlingtuune,
That be so many fold;
Full often times hav I gon that way,
To chavng whyt mony for gould;
And all was for that bonny wenches sake,
That now she lyes full could;
For allake! shall I never see hir no more.
Farye well the water of Adliugetunne,
That runns so dark and dime;
Full often times hav I gon therby,
To se the white swann swime;
And all was for that bonny wenches sake,
That now she lies therin.
For allake, &c.
Farye well the buttes of Adlingetunne,
That standes vnder the hill;
And often times hav I gonn therby.
And with so good a will;
And all was for that bonny wenches sake.
That now she lyes full still;
For allake, &c.
Now will [I] sell my shotting glove.
My braser and my bowe;
And wend vnto som far cuntrey
Wher no man shall me knowe;
And all was for that bonny wenches sake,
[That now she lyes full lowe]
For allake, &c.
Now will 1 sell my dager,
So will I do my kyfe (knife P);
And all was for that bonny wenches sake,
That shold have ben my wife.
G. F. W., Notes and Queries.
A DIFFICULTLY SITUATED ECCLESIASTIC.
A man who knows how to write thus describes in
Truth some of the difficulties of the Dean of Christ
Church, Oxford :—
“ The Principal of Cardinal College, as old Wolsey K
wished his foundation to be called, is a functionary 0
who, I suppose, fills about the most difficult position j(
in Christendom. He rules without being allowed to j)
govern some two hundred and fifty lads of from |)
nineteen to twenty-three, a majority of whom are ||
drawn from the ranks of the wealthiest aristocracy j>
in the world. The fashion in this little world is j)
generally set by one or two peers’ sons, supported by K
a banker’s ditto. A few years ago the heir of a i)
famous Welsh family, who, as the papers would say, H
■ was prosecuting his studies at Christ Church,’ U
11 received £3,000 a year from his parents to enable
(| him to do so with proper comfort. Now the Dean’s
JI authority over gentlemen of this kind must necessarily
\j be very small. At the same time he cannot mete
H out different measure to Mr. de Mowbray with
(i £3,000 a year and to Mr. Smith with £150. And
< j yet he is held equally responsible for the behaviour
/! of both. During the Seven Years’ War the
(j British Government wished to send out some
young English officers to learn the art of war under
h Frederick the Great. Frederick politely but firmly
declined the offer. He was obliged to explain in
; | confidence to Mitchell that as he could not very well
; | shoot refractory Howards and Cavendishes, he should
; I scarcely have any hold over them; while, if they
were allowed to live as they pleased in camp, they
(j would corrupt his whole army. The task from
: | which the Iron King recoiled might well prove too
; | much for a kind-hearted clergyman of the Church of
jl England with no means of enforcing order at his dis-
(| posal save ‘gating’ (and Cerberus loves cakes), and
) j rustication, or ‘ sending down,’ which youthful opinion
(| does not consider a disgrace, unless the punishment
be inflicted for an offence which men of honour would
! i admit to be disgraceful. To keep Christ Church in
; | an efficient state of discipline, the Dean would require
5 all the authority which the captain of a man-
) j of-war has over his midshipmen. He has from
51 time to time made some frantic efforts to turn
11 Christ Church into an educational establishment.
The methods he has employed have been various.
Perhaps what has done most for the cause of scholar-
J | ship at Christ Church has been the example of the
-1 Dean himself, who is nothing if not a scholar. The
dictionary which he compiled in conjunction with
the Dean of Rochester is a noble monument of
)j industry, for which successive generations of students
will bless the names of Liddell and Scott. No work
is without faults; but for a comparatively small
}| Lexicon (it had but 1,600 pages, I think, when I saw
{! it last) it is wonderfully full of the precise informa-
; j tion a person who cannot read Greek easily requires.
)\ The definitions are often models of lucidity, and the
quotations excellently chosen. Indeed, the dic¬
tionary is itself, like Johnson’s, very good reading,
and if any one will glance over a dozen pages he will
realise certain tendencies of the Attic mind which
are extremely suggestive. At a time when Dr.
Liddell took a Greek class, his grateful pupils (and
they ought to have been very grateful) exercised
their minds in devising hard questions for the Dean,
and subsequently noting aloud that his answers
pointed to a difference of opinion between himself
and his Lexicon. But Dr. Liddell could always get
out of the scrape by explaining that Dr. Scott was
responsible for that portion of the work. I presume
that the same comedy was played when the latter
presided over Balliol; and doubt not that there are
articles in the Lexicon for which nobody is
responsible. The History of Rome is a charm¬
ing book, capable of pleasing boys and men. The
Dean says he read attacks on it at the time
of publication in nine different reviews ; all
of which he had reason to believe were written by
the same person. Nevertheless, he has a great
respect for the press, as becomes a good Liberal who
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 14, 1879.
always voted for Mr. Gladstone. And yet the
Liberalism of an Oxford don is a thing fearfully and
wonderfully made. A young man came to matri¬
culate at the House, and explained, in reply to pre¬
liminary interrogatories, that he was a Dissenter. It
was probably kindness on the Dean’s part which in¬
duced him to suggest to that young man that
Durham was a capital university, and that he might
iind himself more at home in the bracing atmosphere
of the North than in the more relaxing air of
Oxford. Certes, a Nonconformist would be about
as much in his place at the House as a guardsman
at a Methodist tea-party. Dr. Liddell is not un¬
popular at Oxford either with dons or men, albeit he
never forgets that he is the Dean of Christ Church,
and made of finer materials than other deans. ‘ The
Dean of Pembroke presents his compliments to the
Dean of Christ Church/ read Dr. Liddell aloud from
a note which had just been handed to him. ! H’m !
Alexander the coppersmith presents his compliments
to Alexander the Great.’ He of Pembroke, how¬
ever, was rightly served, for the dean of a college is
a very small, though a very comfortable functionary.
“THE THEOSOPHIST.”
The first number of The Theoso'phist, a Bombay
monthly periodical, edited by Madame Blavatsky,
was published in India on the first of October. It
is a large, well-printed journal, full of interesting
reading, much of it contributed by natives of India,
and affording an insight into the religious thought
of the far East.
The Editor, in answer to the question, “ What is a
Theosophist ? ” gives Vaughan’s definition as a good
one, namely, “ A Theosophist is one who gives you a
theory of God, or the works of God, which has not
revelation, but an inspiration of his own for his
basis.” The man of science is inspired in like
manner with new ideas, but he puts them to the test
of experiment in the outer world, whereby he dis¬
covers perhaps four-fifths of his speculations to be
false, but proves the truth of the other fifth. The
Editor of The Theosophist does not say by what
standard the speculations of Theosophists who draw
upon their inner consciousness are to be tested, for
the purpose of verification or rejection.
The Theosophist says: — “ The primary issue
between the theosophical and spiritualistic theories
of mediumistic phenomena is that the theosophists
say the phenomena may be produced by more
agencies than one, and the latter that but one
agency can be conceded, namely, the disembodied
souls.” Probably no educated Spiritualist holds the
creed thus put into his mouth. Obscure physio¬
logical and mesmeric influences are probably at the
root of a large proportion of the phenomena, and all
are agreed that good instances of proof of spirit
identity are exceedingly rare. Moreover, probably
no Spiritualist has any objection to admit the action
of sub-human intelligences in connection with the
phenomena, if any theosophist can give conclusive
evidence of the presence thereof. No reason exists,
that we know of, why theosophical inquiry should
not be one of the sub-departments of Spiritualism.
The Theosophist prints the following from an
anonymous writer, but one known to the editor.
A HAUNTED BUNGALOW.
“ There is a bungalow in Kussowlie called ‘ The
Abbey,’ and one year some friends of mine had taken
this house for a season, and I went to stay with them
for a short while. My friends told me the house was
haunted by the ghost of a lady, who always appeared
dressed in a white silk dress. This lady did really
live a great many years ago, and was a very wicked
woman, as far as I remember the story. Whether
she was murdered, or whether she put an end to
herself, I cannot say, but she was not buried in con¬
secrated ground, and for this reason, it was said, her
spirit cannot rest. Her grave may be seen by any¬
body, for it is still at Kussowlie. When my friends
told me this I laughed, and said I did not believe in
ghosts ; so they showed me a small room divided
from the drawing-room by a door, which they told
me was an especial pet of the ghost’s ; and that after
it got dark they always had to keep it shut, and
they dared me to go into that room at ten p.m. one
night. I said I would; so at ten p.m. I lighted a
candle and went into the room. It was small, had
no cupboards, and only one sofa, and one table in
the centre. I looked under the table and under the
sofa, then I shut the door, and, blowing out my
candle, sat down to await the appearance of the
ghost. In a little while I heard the rustle of a silk
dress, though I could see nothing. I got up, and
backed toward the door, and as I backed I could
feel something coming toward me. At last I got to
the door and threw it wide open and rushed into the
dravving-room, leaving the door open to see if the
ghost would follow after me. I sat down by the
hre, and, in a little while, my courage returning, I
thought I would go again into the little room ; but
upon trying the door I found it was fast shut, and
I could not open it, so I went to bed. Another
evening, a lady friend and I were sitting at a small
round table with a lamp, reading ; all of a sudden
the light was blown out, and we were left in the
dark. As soon as lights could be procured, it was
found that the globe of the lamp had disappeared,
and from that day to this it. has never been found
The ghost walks over the whole house at night, and
has been seen in different rooms by different people.
Kussowlie is between thirty and forty miles away
from Simla, in the direction of the plains.
“ I may also tell you of something that came
under the observation of my mother some twenty
years ago. An acquaintance of hers, a young Mr.
W , was on a ship which in a terrific gale was
wrecked on an island off the coast of Africa. News
of the disaster was brought to England by another
ship, and it was supposed that every soul on board
had been lost. Mr. W ’s relatives went into
mourning, but his mother would not, for she was
convinced that he had escaped. And as a matter of
record she put into writing an account of w'hat she
had seen in a dream. The whole scene of the
shipwreck had appeared to her as though she were
ah eye-witness. She had seen her son and another
man dashed by the surf upon a rock, whence they
had managed to crawl up to a place of safety. For
two whole days they sat there without food or water,
Nov. 14, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
235
not daring to move for fear of being carried off again j(
by the surges. Finally they were picked up by a I;
foreign vessel and carried to Portugal, whence they j(
were just then taking ship to England. The mother’s j>
vision was shortly corroborated to the very letter; u
and the son, arriving at home, said that if his mother j)
had been present in body she could not have more j(
accurately described the circumstances.”
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT
BRITAIN.
I ( I
Ox Thursday, last week, the opening meeting of the sixth ]<!
annual session of the Psychological Society was held at 11, Kj
Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, London, under the presidency j) j
of Mr. Serjeant Cox, a portion of whose opening address is pub- |) i
lished in this number of The Spiritualist.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R S., said—I have listened with much i(i
interest to the thoughtful and eloquent address of our President, m
It was also a great pleasure to me to listen to the address of j) j
Professor Allman at Sheffield; but profound and learned as it j) j
was, and worthy to be compared with previous addresses from u !
that chair, it still left on my mind the impress of a want, and this j (I
want it is the function of this society to supply. Dr. Allman laid j) j
down a broad distinction between matter, life, and consciousness, j) j
and it is this very subject of consciousness that this society K j
should investigate. I think that many psychologists—our |(j
President, perhaps, among the number—slightly mistake the n
functions of physical science. Physical science has nothing j)
whatever to do with psychological subjects, and willingly admits ; c
that to deal with life and consciousness is entirely outside its I \
province. It is a great advantage to this society that it has as | >
President a man who year after year gives us from the chair such j)
learned addresses; who is accustomed to thoroughly think out j /
his subject; and who is so well able to weigh and sift evidence, j (
I hope that our President will allow his address to be printed j \
and circulated, and I have much pleasure in proposing him a i)
hearty vote of thanks. (Applause.)
Professor Plumptre, of King’s College, in seconding the vote of j (
thanks, said that it had been his good fortune to have been pre- j \
sent' at every one of the six presidential addresses delivered to j j
the society : all of them had been full of far-reaching thought, j)
but none of them had riveted his attention more than the address j (
of that evening. Psychology, to minds free from dogmatism, j(
opened wide the door of investigation; it gave facts, which should i j
be examined, and the value of which should be considered. The |)
members of the society wished to hear testimony as to the facts, I <
and to subject it to severe cross-examination.
The vote of thanks having been passed with acclamation,
Mr. F. K. Munton, the nonorary secretary, announced that j)
next Thursday Mr. C. C. Massey would submit to the society i j
some facts he had witnessed, and that he was prepared to be |(
cross-examined in relation thereto.
The proceedings then closed.
 ♦ 
Count De Bullet’s former medium, Mr. Furman (who wishes j)
his name to be spelt thus in future, because of the objection of j |
his relatives to Spiritualism), is now giving seances regularly in i<
London, at 26, Southampton-row. Mr. Harrison Green has h
presented him with a test cabinet of perforated zinc, not yet |>
completed in construction ; when it is finished it is likely to be j)
a useful adjunct for presenting the phenomena under unques- K
tionable conditions.
Spiritualism in Edinburgh.—Mr. Thos. Walker, of Aus- 0
tralia, gave an inspirational address on “Spiritualism,” on i/
Thursday, Nov. 6th, to a select audience, numbering about fifty \(
persons, who had been invited by circular to the Bible Society’s i (
Rooms, St. Andrew’s-square, Edinburgh. Mr. Alex. Porteous j>
presided, and read some twenty or thirty questions handed up to 0
him ; these were answered by the lecturer. Dr. Bowie and Mr. j (
MacCraw expressed their approbation not only of the answers, i (
but of the able address they had also listened to. When the i j
meeting broke up it was found that a practical joke had been i
played by some lively individual, who had attended some other i <
lecture in another nart of the building: he had locked the door j i
on the outside. Mr. E. W. Wallis will be in Edinburgh to give ij
public and private seances, Nov. 6th to 28th inclusive. During j
the coming winter any physical mediums travelling in the north I (
will find an opening in Scotland for their services. :-
A MANIFESTATION IN THE ABSENCE OF THE
MEDIUM.
BY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES.
On Tuesday evening, the 4th Nov., a 8(Zance was
held at my rooms; Mr. Rita was the medium. The
usual phenomena attending a dark seance, includ¬
ing the materialisation of a spirit using his own
light, were produced. About an hour after the
departure of the medium, while sitting alone, I was
suddenly disturbed by the fall of some object, and on
advancing to the spot indicated by the sound I found
a shell which I had placed that morning on the
mantelpiece of the adjoining room.
Nearly three weeks ago Charlie—Mr. Rita’s con¬
trol—promised to pay me a visit without his medium,
saying he should not be able to show himself, but
that he would signify his presence by throwing some¬
thing down, so as to attract my attention. This
was done according to his promise, and probably it
was easier for him to produce this manifestation soon
after a seance than after the lapse of a greater length
of time. The shell weighs two ounces and a half,
and made a considerable noise, sounding as if it had
been dashed on the floor, rather than falling with
the mere impetus of its own weight. The same shell
had on two previous occasions been brought by spirit
agency from my bedroom, and thrown or dropped
down in full light, while the medium was seated at
the table.
The fall of objects in full light, and while the
medium’s hands are in view, is common enough
after seances, but the phenomenon occurring in the
absence of the medium appears to me to be worth
recording.
Mr. Rita has for some time past kindly given me
stances once a week at my own rooms, and on these
occasions, at my desire, there is neither tying, bind¬
ing, nor holding of hands," the sitters—seldom more
than four or five—being, with the exception of
myself, all more or less mediumistic. We have left
nearly all the experiments to the discretion of the
controls, who, we find from experience, can give us
much better tests than we could devise. I have on
two occasions placed on the table at the beginning of
the seance a folding slate, securely tied lengthways
and crossways, the knot sealed with my own seal,
with the additional precaution of pasting slips of
paper over the crevice between the leaves ; the clean¬
ing of the slates, tying, and sealing wrere performed
in the presence and with the assistance-of one of my
visitors, and on both occasions writing was found on
the slate.
On Tuesday evening, by the direction of “ Charlie,”
the slate was held by General Maclean and Signor
Rondi, and when the light was struck the seal, tying,
and slips of paper were found intact. On cutting
the [string and opening the slate a short message
was found, a mere scrawl certainly, and difficult to
decipher, but nevertheless, in my opinion, as satisfac¬
tory a proof of spirit power as if it had been a first-
rate specimen of caligraphy. On the above occasions
the writing was executed in perfect darkness ; but,
probably, should Mr. Rita sit frequently for this kind
of manifestation, he would eventually succeed in
obtaining it in the light.
129, Gower-street, London, Nov. 8th. •
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 14, 1879.
THE WEIGHING MACHINE EXPERIMENTS.
As more experience has been gained, the experi¬
mentalists engaged in weighing mediums during
seances are unanimously agreed that the automatic
diagrams recently published were not obtained under
satisfactory test conditions, and improvements are
being made before new experiments will be under¬
taken.
To the Editor of ff The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—A letter from Dr. Wyld appeared in your
number of October 24th, and our names being men¬
tioned in it we had prepared a reply, stating that
during the seances held lately in Museum-street we
had neither seen nor felt both medium and form at
the same time. This we did not publish, thinking it
better to wait the result of further experiments. We
now feel compelled to say publicly that we look
upon the diagram in your number of October 17th as
not only worthless as any test of materialisation, but
as likely to mislead. We do not believe the fact of
a certain amount of weight being recorded upon the
drum of the machine to be any proof that the medium
was not wholly outside the cabinet at that moment;
nor do we think the mere use of a weighing machine
(without additional precautions) any security against
fraud, it being quite possible, by simple mechanical
means, to hold down the cabinet, so that an apparent
weight is indicated upon the diagram when, in fact,
the cabinet itself is actually empty. The above
remarks apply solely to the seances of which an ac¬
count has been published, and have no reference to
those held with other mediums.
C. C. Massey,
Temple, Nov. 10, 1879.
George C. Joad,
Oakfield, Wimbledon.
SPIRITUALISM.
To the Editor of “ The Pioneer” [Allahabad).
Sir,—I am rather an inquirer than a propagandist
in reference to Spiritualism, so I offer my experiences
to others in the same frame of mind, on the Christian
principle of doing as I would be done by, not in the
expectation of making converts. I like to hear what
other people have seen when I am sure they are
giving me truthful accounts, so others may be glad
of my report.
I was at home for some months a few years ago,
and had previously had little to do with this subject.
The first person I saw at Charing Cross Station was
an old friend who had come to meet me, and almost
the first thing he told me was that he had, to his
own amazement, become a partial believer in Spirit¬
ualism. In his own drawing-room, with none but
members of his family about, except a medium
whom he had held the whole time, chairs and other
things had been moved about the room in an un¬
natural manner, &c. He formed no theories, but
felt convinced there was “ something in it.” I may
add that my friend is a man of culture and some
literary reputation—a Saturday Reviewer, and so
forth. I was soon drawn into the vortex, and became
deeply interested. My friend’s family and my own
form a large connected group. We held repealed
seances amongst ourselves. Many of these failed
)j absolutely; at some we received faint raps and move-
(j ments of tables, which we believed ourselves not to
11 have been produced in any ordinary way. Some of the
j communications spelled out by raps or tilts were
ji coherent, though none were of a nature to be worth
\i recording as evidence. Some other phenomena were
}| once observed which I will speak of directly. , My
(\ acquaintance rapidly spread through Spiritualistic
)| society. I went io many public and semi-public
(j seances of professed mediums. Not to speak of raps
I and movements of objects in the dark, which are not
(! in the least impressive at the houses of professional
>! mediums, I saw on two or three occasions some
)i partial “materialisations” which were very extra-
)| ordinary. They happened in this way:—Four or
)! five of us, i.e., of the family group above referred to,
were sitting in the dark on one occasion at the rooms
M of the well-known medium Williams, no other
(j stranger being present. We saw what are called
ii “ spirit lights ” flitting about. These lights appeared
< I like little sparks, which travelled through a short
)i course, and then disappeared as a rule. Suddenly
)j one of them, instead of disappearing, paused in mid
(j air above the table and our heads, and expanded
)j into a little luminous cloud, which at once assumed
)j the appearance of a face. Expanding downwards,
U there came shoulders, covered with some sort of
) I white garment. The head was covered with a white
h turban. The face became perfectly distinct and self-
)j luminous. When I saw it nothing was visible below
(| the shoulders, but the head and shoulders moved
)! about without any reference to what was underneath ;
j that is to say, being at one moment at the further
)j side of the room, at the next it would advance to
<i within a foot or so of me, and remain suspended
)| above the table. At another seance of a similar
<| kind, which my wife and other members of our family
)j attended, but at which, I regret to say, I was not
(i present, the same face appeared in the same way,
H and the materialisation went a step further. Arms
\j and hands developed. The “spirit,” said to be
)j “John King,” shook hands with my wife, and spoke
; I to her and others. Of course, if this had taken place
)j at our own house the phenomenon would have pre-
| i sented itself to our minds irresistibly as what it pro-
(I fessed to be; but occurring at a professional medium’s
(j house, one’s suspicions go hunting round and round
the circumstances in search of some possible ex-
(j planation on the assumption of imposture. How-
)i ever, I have never been able to work on any theory
\ of that kind. The effect could not have been pro-
(\ duced by any magic lantern apparatus, nor by the
ij simple machinery of “ Pepper’s Ghost,” which has
|l impressed your not very scientific though ever-de-
)j lightful London correspondent. For myself, I may
(j remark that natural science has always been my
hobby from a boy, and its ordinary resources, as
jj applied to conjuring, are very familar to me. No
)l optical effects of the conjurer’s kind will bear looking
|| at all round—as we looked at what was said to be
;| “John King” while he remained over the table,
(j descending low down on to it, too, so that the head
>! was no more than two feet above the surface of the
j| table. And a collateral fact that has impressed me
)j is this: once at one of our quite private seances,
Nov. 14, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
237
with no medium or stranger present, we saw little
sparks in the air, just like the more vivid spirit
lights of Williams’s seance, though in our private
case, for want, as a Spiritualist would say, of suf¬
ficient mediumship, they did not develop into visible
faces.
Again, on one occasion when Williams was present
at a private house where I attended a seance, the
“John King” face appeared just as I saw it at
Williams’s lodgings. That is a striking fact to me,
because at the house in question Williams could have
had no apparatus.
In the midst of my researches I was introduced to
a lady, whose name I think I may mention here,
because she has become so very celebrated in con¬
nection with this subject—I mean Mrs. Guppy.
Mrs. Guppy, since re-married, was at that time a
widow of ample private means, living at Kensington,
and suivie by hunters after Spiritualism to that
degree that though she used to hold stances about
three evenings a week, one had to get permission to
attend these some time in advance. People had no
conscience about begging to he allowed to come.
However, during my stay in London, Mrs. Guppy
kindly invited me on three occasions. It would take
columns to describe all that occurred. Mrs. Guppy
has been described as the “Empress of Physical
Mediums,” and all the physical phenomena so often
referred to in writings on this subject occur in her
presence in myriads. Such a Castle of Enchantment
as I found that comfortable house in Kensington to
be, I can hardly expect your readers to realise. Mrs.
Guppy’s guests would assemble in the drawing-room
about eight or nine o’clock, and when all were there,
we used to go up to an almost empty room on the
upper floor where the seances were held. The pheno¬
mena in the habit of occurring would have been
ruination in a drawing-room with much furniture and
ornaments about. Two or three gentlemen would
sometimes go up first to look about the room, and
Mrs. Guppy, I remember, sent me up in this way in
advance of the rest on the first evening I was present.
The room was of moderate size, with one window and
one door. A jet of gas turned over the mantelpiece;
a bare round table with a hole in the middle, and a
dozen or so of common cane chairs, constituted all
the furniture. The window shutter was in one large
solid piece of wood, going over the whole window,
and fastened into its place with long iron screws. I
assisted to put it up on the evening of which I
speak. Then the party all came up, about fifteen in
number; some sat round the table, some stood about.
While these arrangements were being made, loud
raps, as loud as might have been made with a small
hammer, were clattering all round the room, on walls,
floor, and ceiling. Trifles of that sort were not much
noticed at Mrs. Guppy’s. Then the gas was turned
out and the door shut. I may mention thqt the
door was fastened in a more effectual manner than
by bolts or bars. If it was opened an inch light
streamed in from the hall below. There could never
be any doubt as to whether it was shut or open.
Well, closed in as we were by four bare walls and
that huge shutter, darkness was no sooner established
than we heard a swishing through the room. I felt
drops of water on my face, and felt myself brushed
M about in an unintelligible way, and people began
j j calling out for a light. One of the gentlemen ap-
j j pointed to the charge of the candle and match box
j|j struck a light, and we found the room strewn all over
| j I with the branches of trees —large branches several feet
Id long, wet with rain, and freshly torn from wherever
| j they had been. growing. There were not two or
m three, you will understand, but more than one person
nj could have carried on his arms, all over the floor and
id table. Darkness was re-established, and other things
jp came; quantities of flowers; and on one occasion,
1(1 with a tremendous smash on the table, a big: block
j)j of ice weighing many pounds. I cannot now relate
ijd all that occurred in the order of its occurrence, but
|)1 as I go on I record my recollections of the whole
i (I series of three evenings when I was present. “ Spirit
j>i hands” came touching us once, and then, to see
§1 something that had been brought, a light was called
|)i for. While the candle was still burning, spirit hands
id showed themselves at the hole in the middle of the
I) I table. Many of us, as I myself, rested our hands on
ill the table at the edge of this hole, and the spirit
I ji hands would flutter up and touch them, thus coming
Id plainly into sight. Much time would be spent in
j) conversation by raps between various persons present
j(j and spirits with whom they found themselves, or
i> thought themselves in communication. One evening
Id we had a professional medium present—a Mrs. Hardy
l/j —who went into a trance and spoke in strange
id voices, but I was not interested much in this.
j/| Quantities of little objects would be brought to some
jd of the sitters from their own houses at a distance,
)| but this did not happen to me. Then people would
id suddenly feel their rings taken off, and these would
|)l be as suddenly slipped on to the fingers of people in
jd a different part of the room. All this sort of childish-
I /1 ness is very irritating to a person seriously trying to
d make out the truth about great marvels, apparently
| | hinging onto mysteries of the supremest importance.
I i I But, unfortunately, Spiritualism has a great attraction
m for foolish as well as for intelligent persons, and large
id seances will generally be leavened with a painful
| (| element of silliness. When the seances used to be over
lj| and we went downstairs, raps and other phenomena
j(j would follow us. It used to be Mrs. Guppy’s hos-
1)1 pi table practice to have supper laid out in the
I (| dining-room on seance evenings. Once I remember
hi about fourteen people had gathered sitting round this
m supper table, and a few others, of whom I was one,
|j| were standing about the room, when the table began
Id to jerk and jump. Our hostess was more anxious
I; i for the safety of her glass and china than for further
Id manifestations just then, and we all, as far as appear-
dj ance went, tried to hold down the table. I know
id that one intimate friend of my own, sitting at the
I \ | end of the table, tried to do this, all he knew; and
id that I, standing behind and leaning over his shoulder
with both hands on the table, pressed down on it
id with my wrhole weight, and felt it nevertheless rise
i>| up against me with a force far beyond my control.
Id Certainly none of Mrs. Guppy’s guests were under-
I) | neath the table trying to smash her things; some
jd held on, and some helped to remove the breakables.
My return to India put an end to my Spiritualistic
j \ j researches, I am sorry to say, and out here it is next
!'• to impossible to carry on the subject, in the midst
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 14, 1879.
of pressing occupations and social engagements, and,
above all, in view of the way one moves about from
place to place in India, and the blank ignorance of
the whole subject which, for the most part, charac¬
terises Indian society. I was very much pleased,
however, to read Mrs. Gordon’s letter; and though
I did not keep notes of what I saw when spirit-
hunting myself, I have thought it likely that some
of your readers would be interested in my evidence,
such as it is. The instinct of a lifetime, meanwhile
—perhaps the stupid instinct at war with the plainest
facts, bewildered and at bay, but still doggedly
asserting itself—leads me to sign myself
Still in the Dark.
SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW.
The Glasgow Association of Spiritualists held its
quarterly soiree on the 4th November, at 7.80. Mr.
Jas. Walker, president, occupied the chair. Mr.
Thomas Walker, of Melbourne ; Mr. Hay Nisbet, the
publisher of the Psychological Review; and Mr.
Robertson, occupied the platform. Seventy persons
sat down to tea. Messrs. Torrance, Orr, Broadly,
Walker, and Bowman contributed to the harmony of
the proceedings with songs, sentimental and comic,
also with recitations. The Chairman opened the
proceedings with an able address, and stated the
object of the meeting, namely, to hear the secre¬
tary’s report, and to elect a committee to carry on
the Association’s work in another quarter.
The report set forth that the object of the
society was to disseminate a knowledge of Spirit¬
ualism among the public^by means of lectures and
seances. It advised the members not to re-elect the
retiring managers if possible, but to put in new ones,
as such action would tend to prevent centralisation
and needless officialism. The report also set forth
that Mr. Baird had been appointed librarian. Mr.
David Duguid’s Friday evening public seances had
been doing good work for Spiritualism, and Mr.
Robertson had the management of the Children’s
Lyceum. All the public meetings had been better
attended of late, and the receipts had increased.
The society numbered forty members. The report
stated that during the past quarter “ we have had in
addition to the Sunday morning lectures nineteen
public lectures—four by Mr. Morse, of Derby ; four
by Mr. E. W. Wallis, of Nottingham; two by Mr.
Alexander Duguid, of Kirkcaldy ; one by our Presi-
sident, James Walker, Esq. ; one by Mr. Harper, of
Birmingham ; one by Mr. Porter ; and a few by your
Secretary to fill up the gaps between appointments.
Mr. Thomas Walker, of Australia, began the course
for this quarter with great satisfaction to both
Spiritualists and the public, and we hope to have him
with us again before he leaves the country next
spring.”
The report was unanimously adopted, after which a
trance address was delivered by Mr. Thomas Walker,
of the quality of which the Chairman and Mr. Hay
Nisbet spoke highly.
Me,. C. E. Williams has returned to London from Switzer¬
land, renovated in. health, and has been obtaining unusually
powerful manifestations at his stances.
|! A NEW FEATURE IN MR. WILLIAMS’S SEANCES.
\j ■ BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
Last Thursday, the 6th instant, I went with Dr.
\j Friese, of Breslau, to Mr. Williams’s stance, and a
very fine one indeed it was, in his newly-decorated
Sj rooms. John King appeared over the table and out-
?! side the circle with rare brilliancy and definition,
I and the voices indulged in more intelligent conver-
?! sation than usual.
)j Last Saturday a kind of incense was planed, burn-
I ing, on the mantelpiece, and after the light was put
out the burning incense went about the room in all
<| directions, and was used by John King to show
| himself by; he did this by blowing the little flame
j! which served as the lamp, thereby evidently saving
)i much power, as he used it a long time. Mr. Williams’s
?! power seems to be in full swing after his holiday.
(j , Hornington-road, London, N.W.
CONDITIONAL IMMORTALITY.
Recently, both in England and|in this country,
! the fanciful notion of “conditional immortality,”
\i that is, an immortality, given or withheld according
?! to one’s life and character, on earth, has been dis-
M cussed. It is a very ancient idea, and is reproduced
(| every now and then as if it were really something
(I new. Some of the theosophists prove it. Dr. B.
?! Beach brings it up in the Journal of October 4th,
! and says he is convinced that “ only a fractional part
I of humanity would be able to attain immortality.”
)! He thinks that Jesus practically; taught the "doctrine
?j —an assertion. which we think-it will;be.-rather
H difficult to verify. . The man. who lifted the fallen
(] Magdalene, and who said to the thief on the cross,
}! “This day shalt thou be with me in Paradise,” was
( not the person to believe in the annihilation of any
)j being, especially of one who had once felt the strivings
)! of human consciousness.
There could not well be a doctrine more opposed
(j to all the inductions, deductions, and analogies of
?! Spiritualism than this of conditional immortality.
?! There could not be a more audacious assumption
>1 than that of the man who says to himself, “I am
(j worthier of immortality than the assassin or the
j! thief,” He puts himself below the assassin and the
<! thief by the very entertainment of the thought.
? The etymology of the word immortality gives the
j lie to his assumption, since it teaches that what we
?! call death is transition—the mere casting off of an
[\ old and earthly organism for a new and spiritual.
Spiritualism, by its exhibition of such transcendent
)! undeveloped powers as clairvoyance and prevision,
?! proves that every human being has in him powers
j! which transcend all the needs of this life, and points
(j to an inevitable future. There are many persons, no
>| doubt, so sunk in depravity, that they crave annihila-
?! tion ; but they cannot have it. The soul is wiser
)\ than the fleeting consciousness which gives colour to
?! the thoughts of the moment. The soul of every
> i conscious being must live. The universe is large
(I enough for all, and time is long enough, and Provi-
M dence is bountiful enough. Whatever other creed
! may assimilate this chimerical doctrine of “con-
?! ditional immortality,” it is not Spiritualism, the pro-
\! mulgator of a democracy of souls.
y| Dr. Beach says of fractional salvation :—“This is
Nov. 14, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 239
a hard and apparently a crude doctrine; but is it a
loss or a punishment to lose that which was never
in our possession Jjg But it is already in pur pos¬
session. The facts of Spiritualism declare it; our
daily phenomena verify it. Man is even here and
now an immortal being. He does not die; he
passes from this world to a spiritual, and it is his
outward, visible envelope only that mingles with dis¬
solving matter. If conditional immortality be true,
then Spiritualism must be false. There is no escape
from the dilemma. Man is a spirit even while in
the flesh; and the experiences that prove this are
innumerable.—The Religio-Philosophical JournaL
AN ANALYSIS OF DREAMS.
Macnish, in The Philosophy of Sleep, thus
minutely examines into the origin of one of his own
dreams:—
“ I believe that dreams are uniformly the resusci¬
tation or re-embodiment of thoughts which have
formerly, in some shape or other, occupied the mind.
They are old ideas revived, either in an entire state,
or heterogeneously mingled together. I doubt if it
be possible for a person to have, in a dream, any idea
whose elements did not, in some form, strike him at
a previous period. If these break loose from their
connecting chain, and become jumbled together in¬
coherently, as is often the case, they give rise to
absurd combinations; but the elements still subsist,
and only manifest themselves in a new and uncon¬
nected shape. As this is an important point, and one
which has never been properly insisted upon, I shall
illustrate it by an example :—
<f I lately dreamed that I walked upon the banks
of the Great Canal in the neighbourhood of Glasgow.
On the side opposite to that on which I was, and
within a few feet of the water, stood the splendid
portico of the Royal Exchange. A gentleman, whom
I knew, was standing upon one of the steps, and we
spoke to each other. I then lifted a large stone, and
poised it in my hand, when he said that he was
certain I could not throw it to a certain spot which
he pointed out. I made the attempt, and fell short
of the mark. At this moment, a well-known friend
came up, whom I knew to excel at putting the
stone ; but, strange to say, he had lost both his legs,
and walked upon wooden substitutes. This struck
me as exceedingly curious ; for my impression was that
he had only lost one leg, and had but a single wooden
one. At my desire he took up the stone, and,
without difficulty, threw it beyond the point indi¬
cated by the gentleman upon the opposite side of the
canal.
“ The absurdity of this dream is extremely glaring ;
and yet, on strictly analysing it I find it to be wholly
composed of ideas which passed through my mind on
the previous day, assuming a new and ridiculous
arrangement. I can compare it to nothing but to
cross readings in the newspapers, or to that well-
known amusement which consists in putting a
number of sentences, each written on a separate
piece of paper, into a hat, shaking the whole, then
taking them out one by ■ one as they come, and
seeing what kind of medley the heterogeneous com¬
pound will make when thus fortuitously put together.
For instance, I had, on the above day, taken a walk
to the canal along with a friend. On returning from
m
K it I pointed out to him a spot where a new road was
k! forming, and where, a few, days before, one of the
« workmen had been overwhelmed by a quantity of
i \ rubbish falling upon him, which fairly chopped off
1 one of his legs, and so much damaged the other that
K it was feared amputation would be necessary. Near
!>j this very spot there is a park, in.which, about a
k! month previously, I practised throwing the stone.
j>j On passing the Exchange on my way home I ex-
( pressed regret at the lowness of its situation, and
j| remarked what a fine effect the portico would
||| have were it placed upon more elevated ground.
S Such were the previous circumstances, and let us
Kj see how they bear upon the dream. In the first
m place, the canal appeared before me. 2. Its situa-
I tion is an elevated one. 3. The portico of the
| V Exchange, occurring to my mind as being placed too
i (! low, became associated with the elevation of the
j)j canal, and I placed it close by on a similar altitude.
|<! 4. The gentleman I had been walking with was the
j)| same whom, in the dream, I saw standing upon the
m steps of the portico. 5. Having related to him the
I) story of the man who had lost one limb, and had a
j (| chance of losing another, this idea brings before me
m a friend with a brace of wooden legs, who, moreover,
| (I appears in connection with putting the stone, as I
j) know him to excel at that exercise. There is only
jcj one other element in the dream which the preceding
I; events will not account for, and that is the surprise
jil at the individual referred to having more than one
| | wooden leg. But why should he have even one,
j \ | seeing that in reality he is limbed like other people ?
j)j This, also, I can account for. Some years ago he
Ijj slightly injured his knee while leaping a ditch, and I
j)i remember jocularly advising him to get it cut off.
|)| I am particular in illustrating this point with regard
jvj to dreams, for I hold that if it were possible to
K| analyse them all they would invariably be found to
[>[ stand in the same relation to the waking state as the
|. | above specimen. The more diversified and incon-
| j gruous the character of a dream, and the more
Ki remote from the period of its occurrence the circum-
i) j stances which suggest it, the more difficult does its
|)| analysis become ; and, in point of fact, this process
j ) j may be impossible, so totally are the elements of the
]) i dream often dissevered from their original source, and
n so ludicrously huddled together.”
j) St. Andrew’s, Tavistock Square.—Mozart’s Requiem was
\h sung at St. Andrew’s, Tavistock-place, Tavistock-square, on Sun-
Kl day last after the evening service. The morning anthem, “Blest
j) I are the departed ” (Spohr), was very beautiful. Archdeacon
j)j Dunbar, the incumbent, preached morning and evening. An
i \ i oratorio is sung at this church every Sunday evening throughout
iji the year after the seven o’clockorcnestralservice. St. Andrew’s
! j is proprietary. The choir and orchestra are entirely professional.
!) j The oratorio next Sunday will be Rossini’s Stabat Mater.
Iji Papers on Spiritualism.—Mr. J. A. Campbell writes to
Kj us that as he finds it utterly impossible, on account of weak
)j health and many duties, to reply individually to the kind
ijl letters which he constantly receives regarding his pub-
j j lished thoughts on matters connected with Spirituaiiaui,
iji he proposes to issue monthly a letter to his friends, in which
j)i he will endeavour to set these before them in order as
ij| power is given to him, provided they are willing to pay the
])j small cost of printing. He would be glad if those who have
| j | any interest in this proposal, and who desire to receive copies,
iji would write to him (noton post-cards) to Barbreck, Loch-Gilp-
i)j Head, Argyleshire, so that he may judge whether the number
I) l required be sufficient to save him from paying a tax on his own
labour.
240
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 14, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
Olt
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the ale Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.E.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by tfae Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 5s. 6d. post free.’
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX :—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylie
orMesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
■— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &e., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes^—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—-Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s, Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases^-Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—^Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV;—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVl:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritwditt NeVrspapef Branch Office, 38, British Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally .reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Scicn/::, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin b7
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist o1’
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
geheral conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely;
to avoid confiision let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts of raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work oh the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the, contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Nov. 14, 1879.
Notice of bemoval to si
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER, at home fox’private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily-
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays]
MBS. WELDON’S BENEFIT
CONCERT will take place at St. James’s Hall,
on Saturday, 22nd November, 7.30. Tickets 7s. 6d.,
5s., 3s., 2s., and Is. Mrs. Weldon will herself conduct
the Band and Choir. Gallia (Gounod), Nourmahal,
and Amarilla (Urich), are among the pieces de resis¬
tance ; and Sir Julius Benedict will conduct an overture
of his own.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHEK-WOKLD OBDEB:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
If asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
I ECTURES ON N A TUBAL HISTORY.
JU DR. CARTER BLAKE’S private class will
meet in the Galleries of Natural History, British Mu¬
seum, on Thursday, 6th. Saturday, 8th, Thursday, 13th,
and Saturday, 15th November, from two to fouvp.m.
Tickets 2s. 6d. per lecture, or 7s. 6d. course.—Address
Dr. Carter Blake, 28, East-street, Queen-square, W.C.
RE-ENGAGEMENT DESIBED by a
German Governess (diplumie). French Music
and all branches of an advanced English education;
£80.—Address Fraulein M'dller, at Dr. Galloway, 17,
Spring-terrace, North Shields.
Mediumship : its natube and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d.; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PBOPHETIC MESSEN¬
GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s" is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIA
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Groat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary,
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PABIS.—TO SPIBITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M, A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossoniere, Paris.
THE SPiKITUALIST.
Now Ready;
ZADKIEL’S ALMANAC for 1880,
Price Sixpence.
Containing:—Voice of the Stars—Weather Predic¬
tions—A Hieroglyphic, &c.—Zadkiel foretold the Zulu
War and the very day of Isandlana, also the Afghan
War, the severe winter and cold spring.
London : Cousins and,Co.,3, York-street,Coveht
Garden.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“BIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappah-
Richmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-tnediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit, Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. • Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Oloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke,
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To Yon who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A,, Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Vop Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
. XXI.—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVI f.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
) of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII,—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald MasSey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PBOOF PALPABLE of IMMOBTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—SocrateS—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship —Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—^Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XIJ.—The Power of Spirit over Matter-
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVL—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morahty—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman— Kant —Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS PROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress GIcnare — XVL
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIll.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by thq Spciete Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuye des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie,
iv
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
Christmas Pudding,
TJSE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Bipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation,Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
' Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Bev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“ I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
STIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
kJ AMOUNT of EXEBCISE frequently DE-
BANGE the LIVEE. ENO’S FEUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WOBLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FEUIT SaLT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FBUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
1 he Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c„ use
ENO’S EEUIT SAIT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
Fagged, weary, and worn
OUT! !! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FBUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FBUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue dela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which be did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Bbral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FBUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Egbert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked " ENO'S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6tf.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT. SALT WORKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PEOSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Maiming
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Baven.
—13. Materialistic Eeligion.—14, The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—16. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—1G. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe! ”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaic.
26. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Becep-
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Bifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.  
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. 1 
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIBITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.B S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
The trapped medium;
OB, THE TWO CLEVEB SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Beimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.E.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6|d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, J3, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
November, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE ^PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Lectures by Dr. Peebles—A Psychological Study of
Shelley: J.T. Markley—The Spiritual Manifestations
of Two Hundred Years Ago: T. L. Nichols—Joseph
Barker's Testimony—A Letter of Mrs. L. M. Child—
A Ghost Story: Mary S. G. Nichols—What is Spirit¬
ualism? F. C. Cook, Chicago—Popular Errors and
Objections to Spiritualism Explained and Answered—
Notes and Gleanings; Hebrew Ideas of God; Papers
for the Times ; Moral Objections to Spiritualism;
O’er the Silent Eiver; Whittier’s Attitude to Spirit¬
ualism; Almost an Exposure; The Spirit Life; Fort¬
nightly Discussion Meetings. Spiritual Lyrics: Ecce
Homo Ecce Deus.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Co., 62, Ropework-lane
Nov. 14, 1879.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The "Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. ' „ III. „ . .76
The Beformer. „ IV. ,, ’ . .76
The Thinker. „ V. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis ; or, Truth v. Theology . 6 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People ..76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life ... .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . .... .76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Beligion . ... 3 6
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 6 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . .30
Morning Lectures  7 6
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIBKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
BECEIPTS EXCEED FOUB MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOE TWO GUINEAS PEE MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Bent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIBKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOB FIVE SHILLINGS PEB MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIEKBECK FBEEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FBANOIS BAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
Southampton- uildings, Chancery-lane. 
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BI R K B E C K B A N K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FBANCIS BAVENSCBOF P, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Or. 8vo.Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by ' ’
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spirituali.'t Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
The Progress of Psychology. By Edward W. Cox,
Serjeant-at-law, President of the Psychological
Society:—The Belationship of Psychology to
Materialism—Psychology and Metaphysics—
Mr. Herbert Spencer on Psychology  229
Spiritualism in the Provinces    231
Correspondence:—Form Manifestations—A Be-
joinder     232
A MS. Ballad, Seventeenth Century  233
A Difficultly Situated Ecclesiastic  233
“ TheTheosophist ”: —A Haunted Bungalow  234
The Psychological Societyof Great Britain  235
A Manifestation in the Absence of the Medium.
By Captain John James   235
The Weighing Machine Experiments  236
Spiritualism     236
Spiritualism in Glasgow  238
A New Feature in Mr. Williams’s Seances. By
Christian Beimers  238
Conditional Immortality   238
An Analysis of Dreams  239
Paragraphs :—Spiritualism in Edinburgh, 235,;
Papers on Spiritualism, 239; St. Andrew’s,
Tavistock-square       239
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holborn Printing Works, Full wood's Bents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C, •
