Registered as a Newspaper.
(Dltef WmlEMr foi^ Spntwdxsm in <&xmi Britain*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuvedes Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal"
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 324. (VOL. XIII.—No. 19.) LONDON J FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Inherent Invisibility of the Spirit World  ... 217
The Williams-Rita Case:—Test Seance with Mr. Wil¬
liams         217
A Spiritualistic Marriage      218
Private Seances in Germany   ... ... ...   219
Spiritualism in Chester:—The Use of Physical Manifesta¬
tions      ...    221
A Baby Song. (Poetry.)   ... .222
The British National Association of Spiritualists ... ... 222
Soul-Ideas of the Ancient Egyptians. By James Bon-
wick, F.R.G.S....   ... ... ... , 223
Church Testimony to the Reality of Spiritual Manifesta¬
tions :—St. Chrysostom—St. Augustine—J ustin Martyr
—Tertullian—Lactantius—Athanasius—St. Gregory—
Calvin—Luther—John Knox—Baxter—The Reformed
Church of England ...  224
Correspondence :—Spectres of Animals—Healing Me-
diumship—The Abolition of Cabinet Seances  226
Answers to Correspondents 228
Paragraphs:—Narrow-mindedness, 221; Spiritualistic
Soiree    222
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER;
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
Jl oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions ui its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, hut has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associar
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ;■ His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenherg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham,. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B.(India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling,
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Ohiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Mohtgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
IMPOSSIBILITIES MADE PROBABLE.
Consisting of three propositions, viz.:—1. Vitality makes
Matter. 2. Soul is Omnipotent. 3. A Persistent Life Natural
to Man. By J. M. London: Charles Watts, 84, Fleet-street,
E.C. Price 6d
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakoe, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Motze. London; The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR NOVEMBER.
Monday, 4Wi.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m. Paper by Mr. J. Bonwick, F.R.G.S.
Wednesday,Wi.—Conversazione at 7 p.m, Music. Re¬
freshments, and exhibition of Research
Committee’s scientific apparatus.
Friday, 8th.—Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, \8th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 15th.—Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 18£A.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m. Paper by Mrs. Fitzgerald—“Ex¬
periences in the Home Circle.”
Wednesday, 20th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ . „ Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 22nd.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 26th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Seance Committee, at 6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of hooks on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
R. and MISS DIETZ, having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“ One of
the most successful series ever known in London”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—Coal-
brookdale, October 29; Glasgow (City Hall), November 2;
Deal, November 19; Maidstone, November 20; Perry Barr,
December 3; New Swindon, January 8, 1879. Favourable
terms arranged with Institutes or with Progressive Societies,
en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture o
“American Humour,” illustrated"by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
LEAYES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Price 6d.; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY.
October.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II.—Astrology, Ancient and Modern.
III.—Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
IV.—Immaterialism at Brussels. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VII.—Pilgrimages, in France. No. III.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bohme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supematuralism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything qf the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Nov. 4.—Mr. Bonwick, F.R.G.S., “ Soul Ideas amongst the
Ancient Egyptians."
Nov. 18.—Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 1.”
Dec. 2.—Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., “ Spiritualism in
Eastern Lands.”
Dec. 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ The intelligent Operator
at the other end of the Line.”
Jan. 6.—Baroness von Vay, “ Visions in Vessels of Water.”
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings.”
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislinghury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Dr. Bloede, “ Psychometry.”
April 21.—Mr. O. O. Massey, “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “ Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “Review of the Session."
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily,
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d. ’  
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplidity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ac., <fcc.
post free, seven stamps.
"OIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
_D 29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAYENS0R0FT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 8, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)'
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., l.Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
\ _ Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, DIdsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1. Bemard-vlllas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fltz-Gerald, Desmond G.> M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W.
Orejrory, Mrs. Makdon8all,21, Green-street, Grosveitor-square, W.
Honywood Mrs.. 52, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build-
imrs. E.C-
Massey, C. C, Barrlster-at-law, Harcourt-bulldlngs, Temple^
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman. M.D.,Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-,
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Lantrley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addlscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill, t
BInney, F: A., 24, St, Ann’s-square. Manchester-
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, .Tohn. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Tiros., late of H.M.S. “Malabar," Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Stack-
heath; S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7. Obersteln-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufncll-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Sliver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hlll, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bart,, Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Rlchmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J.J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, 'Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. w. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ 1J, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C.. 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Plckersgill. W. 0., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Relmers, Christian. 6. Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson,84, Redeliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton,
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell. 62, Granvlile-park, Black heath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granvilie-park, Blackheath,8.E.
Tredwen. E. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner ,J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M.J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh. 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
d. W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary. .
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Hesident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styrla,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
'Ihe Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Council lor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Hoimfeld, PInneberg, Holstein.
it. Gustave de Veb, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co..New Jersey.U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta,
lames Mylne, Esq , Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Jdrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer-
•slty, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Witiig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipslc, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuvo des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A. .
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pris Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 .Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre. Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles. \
Lieut.-Col;-P. Jacoby, 11,.Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.RJJ.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hiU,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomeiy-piace, Boston, (J.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A. r
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hatlock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratll, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Dotcn, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, S3,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-Iane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Eepublica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita dl Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch. Office.
Works by the Countess op Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pakt I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—H. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting ot Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part It
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII, Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth:
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volnme, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy In the
world I Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <kc., Ac. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road. 1
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 178, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinoes. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
M1
SS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45
Jubilee-street, Oommercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Friday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Applioation
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.rn.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
The celebrated vocalist and
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
C1URATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR-
l VOYANOE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may be consulted at his residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Oampden-hiU, Kensington.
Consultations by letter.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-plaoe, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
Annali DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip,
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened." The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
WANTED.—A copy of the English edition of
the Baron Du Potefs book on Mesmerism. W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London.
FOLKESTONE. —• Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, II, St. MichaeFs-terrace, Folkestone.
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. Terms on ap
plication.  '' "" ~ ~  
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments canjonly accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Coa-
Honnerie, Paris.
% Ippjft nl I’tjogr^ss of ajiit of ^jttijt(«alisttt.
No. 324.—Volume Thirteen; Number Ni^etee^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8th, 1878.
THE INHERENT INVISIBILITY OF THE SPIRIT WORLD, ifj
Has anything from the world of departed spirits ever been I |
made visible to normal eyesight ? Probably not. I j
At the time of our first acquaintance with Spiritualism, |) I
spiritual objects were said to have been materialised at stances. | j |
To decide this point we for some years made the request at j (|
scores of stances:—“ Please materialise a flower or something i j
else existing nowhere but in the spirit world, and leave it ! I
here as evidence of your power and of your mission.” That j j
request was never granted. Wildly enthusiastic people j|!
who heard it made, cheerfully testified that they themselves | j!
had once obtained such evidence, but of course from some |( j
unfortunate accident had lost possession of the priceless other- j j j
world object, beyond all power of producing it for examina- j|j
tion. The spirits, when asked on the spot, we found to be j| j
always unable to do this thing, so the request was at last I j
discontinued as hopeless. | j
But in those early days, living temporarily materialised I j
spirit hands were often seen in one part of a room, while the | |
medium was in another. The fingers of the hands sometimes I i
had rings upon them ; the wrists now and then were covered j j
with lace. As materialisation phenomena progressed, and j j
beads, and busts, and full forms were materialised, drapery j ]
and ornaments covered them, and at last the time came when \ j
the spirits gave away cuttings from their clothing, and the | j
fabric was always found to be machine-made. The mani- j j
festations were genuine, but the visible outcome was always j j
in material things, as indeed had been previously indicated j j 1
by the circumstance that from the first the substances j !
absorbed and reflected light in a way which material sub- j j
stances only could do. j j
Gradually it became apparent that the spiritual world was j I
one of spiritual conditions; that in acting upon this world j j
it could best do so by controlling a living human organism j j
—the body of a medium ; that through that gateway it could I |
get partial control of material things already existing in this j j
world, and by these means communicate by sign and by j j
symbol, not directly, to mortals. At the house of the Rev. j I
Dr. Phelps, they, thirty years ago, built up marvellous ! I
images of human beings, by means of articles collected from | j
various parts of his house, and which sometimes had been j j
locked up immediately beforehand under his eyes, to make j
sure that some invisible power took them from their hiding i
place. A medium, the son of Dr. Phelps, was on the pre- j
mises, but the youth was a mesmeric sensitive, the sport of
all these powers, not their master. j |
If this be so; if nothing can be seen in the spiritual j
world either without a man having his spiritual eyesight j
opened, or without spirits manipulating common objects to j
speak by material sign and symbol to normal eyesight, do I
theorists intend to try to force their own methods upon the |
phenomena of nature ? Do they intend to make the earth j
rotate upon principles they choose to invent in a back parlour ? j
If they do, the world will still rotate on its axis in twenty- j
four hours, and the Galileos who give true facts and true j
theories, must temporarily take the worldly penalty for pre- I
maturely revealing the truths of God. ) j
The application of these ideas to occasional events in j
Spiritualism is clear, and the question is whether the j
phenomena of nature are to alter to meet the theories of j j
individuals, or whether individuals are to modify their pre- | j
conceived ideas until they are no longer at variance with !
what is true? I
Mr. Epes Sargent has been selected by the Messrs. Harper to edit (j
their new Cyclopedia of Poetry,—Boston Sunday Herald. j j
Spiritualism is gaining a strong hold in Mexico, and societies for the I i
study of its philosophy are multiplying. | j
THE WILLIAM S-RITA CASE.
We have received the following document from Mr.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P., of 31, Queen Anne-street,
Oavendish-square, and Mr. 0. 0. Massey, Barrister-at-Law,
of the Temple:—
“TEST SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS.
“ On the 30th October a seance was held at the house of Mr.
Yolckman, at the instance of one of the Foreign Ministers (who was
unable himself to attend on account of the illness of his wife), for the
purpose of obtaining a decisive test of the question whether the figures
seen and felt at the seances of Mr. Williams are substantive beings,
having a distinct existence of their own, or are merely scenic exhibi¬
tions of Williams himself, got up with the aid of drapery and pro¬
perties smuggled by him into the circle. For this purpose Mr.
Williams consented to undress entirely in the presence of Mr. Wedg¬
wood and Mr. C. C. Massey, putting on a suit of wholly dark clothing
provided by them. They saw that all his own clothes were laid on
one side, allowing him no opportunity of taking away anything what¬
ever from them, and then led him to a different room, which they had
previously examined, and ascertained that there was nothing in it
available for the purpose of the spirit drapery.
“ The circle consisted, in addition to the three already named, of Mr.
and Mrs. Yolckman, Florence Marryat, and Lady . They sat in
the first instance round the table, all holding hands, Mr. Williams
being placed between Mrs. Volckman and Lady  . The usual
phenomena were copiously displayed. Firefly lights fluttered about;
voices were heard in various directions, often at a wide distance from
the medium ; and on one occasion two were distinctly noted speaking
at the same time. Mr. Wedgwood and Mr. Massey were each led up
by a warm hand as high as they could reach standing on their chairs.
The well-known figure of “ Peter ” repeatedly showed himself by the
light which he carried in his hand, having a headdress of white linen,
and the upper part of his body, as far as seen, clothed in loose white
drapery. He jerked about as usual, anxiously asking whether we saw
him distinctly.
“All the while, it will be observed, Mr. Williams was held by the
two ladies between whom he was placed. A change was now made.
Mr. Williams took his place in the cabinet, consisting of a curtain
drawn across a corner of the room, and after a while Mr. Massey also
went within the curtain, passing his hand over the face and body of
Mr. Williams, who sat sighing and starting by his side, while Mr.
Massey looked out through the opening of the curtain, and, like the
rest of us, saw on the outside a white vaporous figure, more or less
indistinctly seen, notwithstanding the entire darkness of the room,
which appeared and disappeared two or three times.
“ Finally, at the suggestion of Mrs. Yolckman, Mr. Massey took his
place in the circle at the left of Mr. Wedgwood, when the medium was
apparently brought out in his chair in a state of trance, and placed in
front of Mr. Wedgwood and Mr. Massey, across whose knees he was
made to rest, lying on his right side with his head against Mr. Massey’s
breast. A strong hand took hold of Mr. Wedgwood’s hands, and
placed his right hand on the shoulder of the medium, while his left
hand was made to grasp the left hand of the medium as it hung down
in front. While the whole body of Mr. Williams was thus securely
held by the two across whose knees he lay, the figure of a man with
white headdress and drapery (presumably John King) appeared close
behind him, showing himself by his own light, which was unusually
bright, not being covered with muslin as it commonly is. So lighted
up he brought his face within a few inches of the faces of Mr. Wedg¬
wood and Florence Marryat, who sat next him on his right, and in
that position proved the vitality of his features by loudly smacking
his lips.
“It was impossible to have clearer evidence than we had of the
independent existence of Mr. Williams and the stranger who thus
appeared mysteriously among us. “H. Wedgwood.
“ 0. C. Massey.
“ Postscript by Mr. C. C. Massey.—In subscribing the above as an accurate
account, I by no means commit myself to any other opinion of the pheno¬
mena we witnessed than that they were most assuredly not produced by
"Williams himself, or by any agency of his, in the ordinary sense of the words.
What the above stated facts may or may not be a proof or test of, beyond this,
and on this occasion, every one must decide for himself. So far as I am con¬
cerned they are not put forward as conclusive of anything than this, viz., that
(granted, of course, the good faith of all as witnesses, and the improbability of
an outside accomplice being introduced into the house of one of them) these
phenomena do take place in the presence of Mr. Williams without human
trickery. One of the other persons named as present is well known to us
all as a powerful medium; but I am assured that these visible phenomena
described are not characteristic of this lady mediumship, “ 0. 0, M.”
Mr. A. J. Riko, of 8a, Oude Molstraat, The Hague, after
making some remarks about The Medium newspaper which
should be sent to that journal for publication, says :—
218
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 8, 1878.
Some articles have appeared calling attention to good manifestations
obtained by Williams on former occasions, or at seances after the
exposure. This is totally useless. The only question to he considered
is—Did Williams and Rita cheat at the particular seance at Amsterdam
described in the report of the Dutch ? That is all. Other sittings are
out of court. This is calm and strict logic.
The Britisli National Association of Spiritualists appointed a com¬
mittee to investigate the case. Mr. Massey, in The Spiritualist of
October 25th, said that Williams had consented to go before that com¬
mittee. Well, at the request of the gentlemen, the Dutch have sent
them their evidences and “ pieces of conviction,” including the beards
and muslin; also the oil bottle, the neck of which is carefully covered
with used English penny stamps (by the spirits!), in order to make it
appear globular when illuminated, and to avoid displaying its real form
—a bottle J I could give many more items in this sense, but will wait
till it becomes a necessity. We are able to meet every point. Let this
be known.
In the same number of The Spiritualist Mr. Gledstanes suggests con¬
sulting “ John King ” about the affair. We know the thinking part of
the English as well as of Dutch Spiritualists are too fully convinced of
the errors, contradictions, and even lies in spirit communications, to go
that way. No; let us use our own sound judgment, compare notes,
accept facts occurring under our own observation, and then draw our
own honest conclusions, without consulting any spirit out of the flesh to
guide us here. 1 went expressly to Amsterdam to hear the facts for
myself.
The article in the last number of The Spiritualist by Miss Kisling-
bury about drapery is an excellent one. Remember, The Hague
Spiritualists are mostly old hands in the cause, and know all about it. I
myself have witnessed wonderful phenomena in the Cook family.
Heavens grant that all Spiritualists had done as honest Mrs. Cook on
the occasion referred to, instead of passively gaping at the spirits! We
should then have had to deplore a great deal less humbug from mediums
and spirits both. Let us follow her example in future: it is a good one. }
In the last number of The Spiritualist I find two letters from my j
most esteemed co-worker, Mr. C. Blackburn. Let me simply say, as to j
the first, that there was no acting hastily at all. The writer of the I
letter himself gave the proof of the honesty and unprejudiced mind of
the Dutch, by his first question in the second paragraph, and ruins also i
the assertion or insinuation that a trap was laid for the mediums. No ; j
Williams and Rita were received the first day as friends, and trusted as i
such. We have known all about materialisation for years. Certainly,
the spirits can bring things, but here the question is—Did they do it 1
The white raiment of “ Charlie,” after having been seized, went directly I
under Rita’s waistcoat (left arm), from which place it was brought to j
light. This happened at the moment when Williams ” went for ” Mr. |
Terpstra, and by thumping him on the back in darkness forced him to
let Rita slip for some moments; probably Williams did this ‘‘in |
trance.” (!) I hasten to add that Williams got his blows back with
usury, Mr. Terpstra being not entranced. There was no time to hide
the raiment in a better way, and so it was found only under the waist- 1
coat—quite a natural place, yea, the very natural one. To the latter j
part of the letter on “ testing again,’’ and to the second letter about a j
seance at Mr. Rondi’s, I simply repeat that those points are out of con- i
sideration at this moment.
Mr. Stock’s letter. To its first part I answer what I have said I
already. The Dutch were unprejudiced, trusted Williams and Rita;
if you like they were careless, too; but that does not whitewash the
mediums; so much is clear. I have the conviction that both persons
are mediums ; but how many genuine mediums have been convicted
already of occasional cheating ? The British and National Association
of Spiritualists took in hand a good work by investigating the matter.
I refer to what Mrs. Edwin Ellis said at the special meeting of the
Council. (Vide “ Spiritualist,'” Oct. 11, p. 179.) That was a right word
in the right place. To conclude, if all our evidences were published, the
decision of honest Spiritualists would not be doubtful. In the meantime,
let us calmly wait for the committee’s verdict.
Mr. A. E. Hunter (of Jesus College, Cambridge) and |
others write:—
Has it occurred to you that the number of sitters at the Dutch seance
is very doubtful; I mean whether all those present really signed their
names. Williams said “ about a dozen; ” only eight, however, attested
the so-called fraud. Of course, these eight are careful to keep the exact
number in the background.
And, once more, is it, we ask, fair that only mediums should be
searched at these materialisation seances? Certainly not; every
member of such a circle should be individually searched, for it only
needs one person with a malevolent design to throw suspicion on the
mediums by pretending to draw articles of dress out of the medium’s
pockets, or to secrete them there after the medium has been searched.
It is not only desirable to know whether any persons were
present at the seance who refused to sign the statement of
the others, but to have a full description of the previous
dark stance signed unanimously. If the mediums were then,
as usual, held hand and foot, it will show that they were
subject to strong spirit power that evening, and probably
just as responsible for what they did with and without their j
bodies, as a sensitive under the rule of a mesmerist on a j
public platform. All the merits of this Williams-Rita case
can never be properly examined, till everybody present at the j
dark seance has given his account of what he witnessed.
The suggestions about searching people are superfluous, j
The better thing to do is to abolish cabinet stances altogether,
except in experimental investigation among Spiritualists. It
will be noticed that almost all public trouble to mediums in
America and England has been due to cabinet stances. Good
materialising mediums obtain strong manifestations while
they are held hand and foot, so why do they not confine them¬
selves to that class of seances, in which they are always safe
from the suspicions of inquirers ?
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., writes :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Whenever spirits, in the earlier period of the manifestations
clothed themselves in the garments of the mediums, I believe they erred
quite unconsciously. I once, just for something to say, inquired of
Lenore where the clothes she was then wearing were procured. She
replied, with unusual energy, that she did not know for certain ;
Florence brought them, and she suspected they came out of Miss
Showers’ wardrobe, but still she doubted it, as she had not seen anything
of the kind amongst the dresses. This she seemed most anxious to
impress upon me, and repeated it, although I did not show much
| interest in the conversation. Chas. E, Isham.
| Lamport Hall, Northampton.
A SPIRITUALISTIC MARRIAGE.
The extent to which Spiritualism is being made a religion in the
United States, is indicated to some extent by the following abridgment
of a report published in the Reliyio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago) of
October 19th :—
My old friend Alfred Heath, of Tonica, Ills., though only a private
medium, is already known to many readers and non-readers of the
Journal, and is a clairvoyant of remarkable powers.
The many friends of Mr. Heath will be pleased to learn of his happy
marriage to Miss Mary Jacobs, an estimable young lady of Ursa, Ills.
The marriage was celebrated on Wednesday morning, the 25th of
September, at the residence of the bride’s parents, the writer hereof
performing the ceremony. A few select friends were present, and a
large company of the invisibles, to witness and sanctify the happy
proceedings.
The altar was beautifully decorated with a floral tribute emblematic
of purity, love, wisdom, and harmony—the offering of Mrs. Cook. At
the appointed hour Mr. Heath led his bride thereto, the friends rising to
receive and welcome them. In a few words Mr. Cook then informed
the company of the sacredness in which Spiritualists hold marriage,
regarding it as the holy of holies of all social relations ; adding that we
believe the angels of God to look on with glad eyes to bless and
sanctify with their presence, these unions of soul with soul and life
with life.
An inspirational poem was then read, and copies of the following lines
were given to all present: “ Behold the beauty of love! It is fairer than
the morning, more precious than the gems of Golconda, purer than dia¬
monds, and altogether lovely. Oh, soil not its holiness by impure thoughts,
nor blight its fair growth by light words or sensual actions. But rever¬
ently enter its sacred temple with clean bodies and pure hearts ; uniting
the highest aspirations of your inmost souls with those of the angel world,
that in the home, in the life, in the soul of this couple who are about
to enter the most sacred social relation on earth, it spring up an ever-
blooming vine distilling its dews of peace, diffusing its fragrance of
happiness, and in its divine union with wisdom bearing the celestial
fruit of harmony.”
After answering the usual questions, the bride and groom joined
their hands and unitedly gave assent to the following marriage pledge :
“ By this act of joining hands, you do take upon yourselves the relation
of husband and wife, and solemnly promise and engage, in the presence
of these witnesses, to love and honour, comfort and cherish each other
as such, so long as you both shall live. Therefore, in accordance with
the laws of the State of Illinois, by virtue of the power in me vested
as a minister of the Gospel of life, I do pronounce you man and wife.
What God hath joined together, no man can put asunder.”
After the congratulations, “Heavenly Union,” from the Spiritual
Harp, long ago selected for this marriage, was read
“ Two loving clouds at morning,
Tinged with the rising sun,
Calm in the dawn are floating,
And mingling into one ;
That dewy morning cloud is blest,
It moves so gently to the west.
Two crystal summer currents,
Flow softly in their course,
Their waves in music dancing,
To join in silent force;
How beautiful through banks of green,
While dimpling eddies play between !
Oh, what a heavenly union,
In bowers of delight,
Where ministries of angels
Inspire with holy light;
Two souls one life, two hearts one love,
As sweet and pure as heaven above.”
With many “ much joy’s ” and “ God bless you’s,” the happy couple
left by the evening train for their home in Tonica, Ills., intending to
visit friends on the way. May the angels be with them!
C. W. Cook.
Ursa, Ills., October 1st, 1878.
ttav. 8, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
219
PRIVATE SEANCES IN GERMANY.
Leipzig, October 14th, 1878. j) I
Last year, about this time, I happened to be in company | |J
with a young actress in Denmark. For the sake of giving j j j
her a name, I will here call her Miss Gr. She told me that ! | j
during a previous engagement in Stockholm, she had been j j j
so unfortunate as to lose her baggage, consisting of a single 11 j
large basket covered with oilcloth, and containing her ward- j l j
robe, letters, and sundry other things. It was lost in this | j |
way:—While going from the steamer, late in the evening, (
under a pelting rain, to find their lodgings, she and her j
companion were unable to return to the boat the same )
evening, and the next day, when they called, the steamer s
had left. Somebody told them that two men had called j
for the basket, and carried it away. She applied to the )
police, but nothing was ever found out about the basket.
When Miss Gr. told me her story it struck me that, could
I only find some good medium and mesmerise her into a
trance, I might possibly gain some knowledge about the
matter, and I promised myself, on behalf of the young lady,
whom I really pitied, that I would be on the look-out for
such an opportunity. So much by way of preface. j
A few days ago I accidentally heard that Miss E. D’Espe- (
ranee, an English lady, travelling with Mr. Elliott’s family, j
was said to be a remarkably fine medium, and having never
witnessed a Spiritualistic seance, believing that most of the
public stances were mere humbug, I was anxious to make
her acquaintance, and, if possible, join a private family stance^
and judge for myself. My wishes in that respect were
kindly and willingly acceded to by all concerned, and last
night, for the first time in my life, I was one in a spirit
circle. We met a little before eleven o’clock, I for my part,
with a strong determination to watch closely and judge im¬
partially whatever I might witness. I entertained no feeling j
of prejudice whatever, but had a strong desire to learn what | j
I had reason to believe was the case, whether I was a medium j
myself, and if such were the fact to find out how to develope j
the power, in order to benefit myself and others thereby. j
The persons assembled were Mr. and Mrs. Elliott, a young | j
man, Mr. Rowland Brown, the medium, and myself. The j j
thought had struck me during the day that perhaps this j |
medium might be able to unravel the basket mystery j I
referred to above, and for that purpose I brought with me j !
a letter from the actress, a photograph of her, and an ivory - j
fan belonging to her, which she had given to me to be I
repaired, and which I had not been able to return to her at |
the time of her departure. These articles were all placed on j j
the table before the medium, besides paper and pencil. We j
washed our hands and formed a circle round a plain, square j j
table, the medium sitting at the end of the table, Mr. j j
Brown at her right side, and I at her left; Mr. Elliott at the |
other end of the table, and his wife between him and me. |j |
When we were ready the light was extinguished and i |
matches placed ready for use. A few minutes had elapsed, ||
during which the medium frequently trembled spasmodi- j j
cally, and remarked—111 feel so strange to-night.” She then j I
asked me several times not to mesmerise her, and I j j
promised to obey. She began to write what appeared to j j
me to be a short sentence. I could see nothing, but dis- U'
tinctly heard the sound of the pencil sliding on the paper, j I
The medium having declared the writing finished, the candle j
was re-lit, and behold, on the white leaf appeared, in small j j
letters, the words :—“ What can I do for you ?” ! I
The candle being again extinguished, I asked about the | |
basket, stating, as nearly as I could, when it was lost and j j
where. The writing commenced as before, and we read: j
tl I can do nothing, hut the medium can try if she likes” I |
then asked : “ How can she try ? ” and received in the same | j
manner the answer : “ Take hold of both her hands, and let || |
her try; or cover her eyes with your hands, and give her the ! j
articles inker hands.” . . > , < jji
This was done by me.. I put both my hands over her j jj
eyes, and renewed my previous question. It then struck j j
me that she had asked me not to mesmerise her. I there- | j
fore asked her if she were asleep, and received the answer : j j
“ No, I don't sleep ; ” and, shortly after that, she saw some j j
of the cover of the basket (the oilcloth) spread over a table 11 j
in a remote place, and on the table some of the * things | j |
which had been in the basket. The following conversation
then took place between us, which I, to simplify, will put
in the form of questions and answers, as nearly and correctly
as I can remember :—
Q.—What country is it in ?
A.—(Short pause.) Finland.
Q.—What is the name of the town ?
A.—I cannot see it.
Q.—What does the place look like l
A.—It looks like some raihvay-station, or something like that. There
are no people there.
Q.—How did the basket come there ?
A.—There is no basket there ; only part of the top. It was brought
by a man, together with some of the things on the table, and there was a
string around it.
Q.—How long has it been there ?
A.— Oh, a long time ! About nine months.
Q.—Who is the man ?
A.—He seems to be a sailor, or something like that.
Q.—What is his name ?
A.—Olup Hansen.
Q.—Where did the man get it from 1
A.—From a ship.
Q.—What ship?
A.—The ship which brought it there.
Q.—What is the name of the ship ?
A.—“ Norrkoping.”
Q.—Where does this ship go to ?
A.—To Stockholm, and several places.
Here I thought I would commence a different course of
questioning, as I could not find out the name of the town to
which the basket had been taken. I therefore took hold of
both the medium’s hands, giving her the picture and the
letter of Miss G., and asked again:—
Q.—Do you see the lady of whom this is the picture ?
A.— Yes.
Q.—Go to Stockholm with her at the time she was there!
A.—I am there.
Q.—Do you see her ?
A.—Yes.
Q.—Is she alone?
A.—No ! There is another lady with her.
Q.—Do you see the basket too, and where is it?
A.— Yes. It stands on the hatchway, all by itself.
Q.—Well! Leave it for a while, and follow the ladies. Where do
they go? _
A.—They go ashore. It is raining fearfully. They go a long way,
and then into some restaurant place.
Q.—What do they do there ?
A.—They inquire for something, and one of them gets something to eat.
Q.—Why not both ?
A.—Because one of them says that she does not want anything,
Q.—Follow them further.
A.— Then they go to some place like a theatre,
Q.—What is the name ?
A.—Alhambra.
Q.—Do they stop there ? . ••
A.—No ; but close by.
Q.—Over night ?
A.—Yes.
Q.—Well! Now go back to the ship. What is its name ?
A.—Norrkoping.
Q.—Do you see the basket still ?
A.—Yes.
Q.—What are they doing with it ?
A.—Two men are looking at it.
Q.—Who are they ?
A.—Custom-house officers.
Q.—What do they say ?
A.—They ask whose it is, but nobody knows.
Q.—Why ?
A.—Because the address is washed away by the rain.
Q.—What becomes of the basket ?
A.—It is still there, at the same place.
Q.—Follow it up. Where does the ship go to ?
A.—To O-e—Oeland.
Q.—The basket is still there ? .
A.— Yes.
Q.—Where does it go to further ?
A.—To B-e-r-g—Bergfelle-—I believe it is.
Q;—Where is that ?
A.—In Finland.
Q.—And then ?
A.—Then to Copenhagen.
Q.—And then ?
A.—Then to Stockholm.
Q.—Go further ?
A.—Then to Bergfelle.
Q.—And then ?
A.—It is left there.
Q.—The basket is in Bergfelle. Does it remain there
A.—-No, only part of it.
Q.—How so r,
A.—Because it is all broken to pieces. A man takes it up, and carries
home what there is in it.
220
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 8, 1878.
Q.—Does he want to steal it ?
A.— OA, no ! But nobody claims it.
Q.—What is there in it ?
A.—Dresses, and letters, and beads, and rings, and such things, and
there is a locket.
Q.—What is in the locket %
A.—A "picture of a man.
Q.—Who is he ?
A.—I do not know him.
Q.—Find him 1
A.— O, I cannot (somewhat fatigued), there are so many people. I
cannot see him.
Q.—I wish it? Find him 1 Look!
A.— Well, I see him.
Q.—Where is he ?
A.—There are so many people. It is in a theatre.
Q.—What is the name of the town ?
A.— Vienna.
Q.—What is he doing ?
A.—Reading a paper.
Q.—Is he an actor %
A.—Oh, no ! He is not an actor.
Q.—Follow him further. Where does he go.
A.—Oh, no ! 1 will not. I don't like him.
Q.—Why?
A.—Because 
Q,,—Because what ?
A.— Oh, no l I don't like to.
Here I broke the spell or trance, or whatever you may call
it, by taking my hands away. When the candle was lit the
medium was rubbing her eyes, as if awakened from a hard
slumber, and was wholly unconscious of what had been done
toher. The seance was then recommenced by Mr. Elliott asking
the name of the spirit who, the other night, had grasped him
by the hand, as if shaking hands with him. He received the
reply in big letters, “ Le Diable” I then asked, “ Who are
you ? Please tell us I” The reply was in the same large
writing: “ My name is Walter Tracy, at your service, native
of Nero York. May I ask yours ?v and mine being given he
said : u I am extremely pleased to knoro you.” Some more
writing followed. I could tell by the sound of the pencil
that it was also in large letters, and thought it was from the
same spirit, but found, to my great surprise, when examining
it by the light, large, terribly angular letters, like those a
child would make when beginning to write. The writing said :
<l Do you want to see the lady wat is on the picture ? (the photo¬
graph of Miss Gr. was still laying on the table.) My
reply was in the affirmative; but immediately it wrote
again—‘'Me not say so. Me say does you want know where
is the lady wat is on the picture, cause me knows where is she.”
The medium informed me that the writer of this was one
of her controls of the name of Ninia, a child nine years of
age, of Spanish birth. Again I replied in the affirmative,
and again the answer was: ilSleeps in bed in house in wat is
nam of place.; Ninia thinks it is Belgium.” I thought this
was not right, as I had heard that the lady referred to was
in Berlin at the time, therefore suggested that it was not
Berlin ; but received for an answer: “ No, dot is nam pas
Belgium.” I will now let the questions and answers follow
in the order in which they were given :—
Q.—Does Ninia like the lady ?
A.—Yes. She likes Ninia to.
Q.—Does Ninia know my departed sister ? (Here I stated where and
when she died of cholera in 1853.)
A.— Yes thinks. Ninia not know. What is her name 1
Q.—(Name and place stated.)
A.— Yes. Ninia knows Aalborg; Ninia is there with Signora. (This
meant that she had been there with the medium.) Ninia not say Ninia
kmws your sister. Ninia will find your sister. Is she big girl ?
Q—(Age stated).
A—Ninia willfind her, cause Ninia knows where is Aalborg. Ninia
wi'l go. Walter sa to-morrow ; but you must go to bed ; not sit up all night.
You know Ninia come back to-morrow.
Q.—Am I a medium ?
A.— Vous etes un medium tres fort.
Q.—Can I be controlled to write ?
A.—Pas maintenon, mais demain ou le jour prochain si vous voulez me
vous aide. Alphonse St. Claire (f)
It being now rather late, the seance closed with kindly
thanks to the spirits and a “ Good bye,” after which I went
home to my lonely lodgings to ponder on what I had heard,
seen, and learned. On arriving home I could not resist the
temptation to try the truth of what the spirit had revealed to
me, and, acting upon the impulse, I sat down to my own
table, extinguished the light, and waited, according to
directions, for nearly three-quarters of an hour; but save a
queer, freezing sensation in my arms, legs, head, and body
111 at intervals, I made out nothing that night, but went to bed
I) i with the prayer that I might succeed in my determination to
II j learn as much as possible of this to me perfectly new world.
| j I could not help reflecting on what I had seen, and take it
|) I all in all, it was so charmingly novel, so natural, that I felt
III pleased beyond description. I am utterly convinced that
i j | there was no fraud, no humbug; nothing but a pure spiritual
|) | influence on the medium. We are to have another sitting
111 to-morrow or the day after, and I shall make a report of it;
j 11 not only on behalf of the medium to whom I have promised
i j | this, but for myself, because of the interest I now take in the
| j | subject. I shall keep the original medial writings in my
j /1 possession as memorials of these proceedings. They may
j in time be the means of converting somebody to that truth
J for which I have been searching myself so long in vain, and
|) I may He who controls all spirits and mediums, and whose
| | omnipotence we fail to fully appreciate, aid me to do as much
I j | good thereby as I heartily desire.
i j | Leipzig-, Octobeb 14th, 1878.
I]! Our second sitting to-night was opened by Mr. Brown
j j | saying, “ Walter, have you brought that fellow along to-
J | night who said he knew me ? ”
| j | Medium.—"When you know his name, why do you not call him Mr.
| i Robertson, instead of “ that fellow” ?
[) j Walter (spirit).—Robertson could not come with me, but said he
i j | would try to come later on.
(j Moller.—Mr. Tracy, what is the matter with Mr. Brown to-night ?
15 i He says that he does not feel well.
! j | Walter.—Folks often feel out of sorts at seances, without there being
11J any particular reason for it. You’ll feel queerer yet before you have
) j done.
j 1 Moller (showing photograph of a little girl, departed niece).—Do
11 you know this little girl ? She died two years ago; her name is
) | Therese.
j j Walter.—Don’t know her. The doctor wants to know if his in-
|! structions have been carried out with regard to the prescription he
11 gave for the cure of the erysipelas.
| Mr. Elliott.—It will be administered to-morrow.
) j ; Walter.—All right! I’ll tell him. Let me know when you want
) j him again.
Moller.—Can the spirits see through our hearts ? I put this question
I) ] to ascertain if you can see our goodwill and eager desire to do good.
|) i Walter.—Only so far as the medium can. If you are well known to
■ j | our medium you are well known to us ; unless it happens that you are
i) j a medium we can manifest through.
| i Moller.—I always had the idea that in your celestial sphere you all
j! moved among each other with that feeling of unutterable, unspeakable,
i j blissful love which we mortals feel for children or persons very near
) j and dear to us. Do you entertain that feeling towards each other, or
11 do you classify your acquaintances.—Can you even hate ?
11 Stafford (spirit).—We like our friends. We are perfectly indifferent
j i to others ; and, to some, we have a feeling of abhorrence, j ust as you
j | have. There is no ruling passion among us ; but we all of us know,
) j or have to learn, that ours is a great commonwealth, and that a man
| j cannot work for himself without benefiting others in a greater or lesser
j | degree. We know, also, that when we work for others, we are at the
I! same time laying up riches for ourselves, and when we know this we,
| i of course, do our best for others, and so increase our own store. A
|; prejudice conquered, a little affection gained, and so on, form the
) I greatest treasures we possess, and are current coin among us. The
11 one who possesses the greatest amount of love and goodwill to his
j i fellows is a millionaire. You can work for yourselves. The man who
) | comes to us unloved by those he leaves behind is a beggar; he comes
11 here naked. Affection forms our food, clothes, meat, and drink. The
j j more goodwill and affection you gain for yourselves below, the more
) | riches you bring here with you. A kindly deed done on earth to a
II ] fellow creature is worth to you here more than thousands,
j j i A question was asked about some departed lady.
i j j Stafford.—No, I don’t know her, except from what Walter has told
i | j me. I cannot remember seeing her.
Moller.—Mr. Stafford, you have sometimes said about another spirit,
i|| “I will tell him when 1 see him.” Have you one common language
| | among you, or how do you manage to explain your wishes and ideas to
| j j each other. What is your faculty for speaking ?
| ) I Stafford.—That I cannot explain; but you can understand from your
! I ] own experience in mesmeric experiments that it is possible to make a
j | j sensitive read your thoughts, and yet you never speak. We can under-
! 11 stand each other in a certain way; that is, we who know each other
| ] | well need never speak; but if we wish to converse with those a little
III lower in the scale of intelligence then words are necessary.
|) I Moller.—Mrs. Elliott is said to be a trance medium. Do you think I
j ] | can mesmerise her ?
11! Stafford.—I do not think you can mesmerise her. She is not very
|) i susceptible. You should practice mesmeric experiments more. You
111 might be a healing medium, and a good one.
Moller.—What shall I do in order to become a good medium.
1) Stafford.—Study anatomy. Learn the whole course of the nerves.
| ] | Make a study of the nervous system, and practise wherever you see an
j j I opportunity. If I can help I will. I was also a mesmerist.
• ‘ Moller.—Will you tell me how to proceed ?
fror. 8, 1878.
$SE SPIRITTTALIST.
221
Stafford.—No; but I will give you general instructions. Make out a i / j
classified list of questions about such information as you may require, j j j
and I will do my best to assist you. During the next few days I think ! j
I can do so. Study your health and strength; for, remember, the j j
stronger you are the better you are able to give strength to your |||
patients. Practice on any one who has need, and of these there are i j |
hundreds. You need not be at a loss for subjects; animals, even, can be ! i
used; and, remember this, the more you give to others of your strength, j (j
in this respect, the stronger you become ; but see first after your own j I!
bodily health. Also study anatomy, that you may not make mistakes, j) j
and, instead of curing, increase the disease. ! (i
Holler.—My bodily health is not the very best. I have curvature of | j |
the spine ; but for that, I suppose, there is no cure ? j H
Stafford.—No cure. But that will not interfere with your mesmeric j1 j
influence, if you see that you do not wilfully or from neglect let your j! j
health fail. IM
Mrs. Elliott.—What shall I do with my feet? They make me feel ! j
so bad. - - . ■ pj I  • j j|i. j
Stafford.—You will feel worse if you do not take care to follow out
the instructions. Get your feet better before the disease gets into the j j
system. Do as the doctor tells you, and be careful. Good night.
Humnur Stafford. j ( j
It being late, the sitting was then adjourned until the j i
16th Oct. Gervais. | j
SPIRITUALISM IN CHESTER. |
THE USE OF PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS. j I !
The announcement that Mr. Morse, the Spiritualist trance medium, ! j!
would deliver an inspirational lecture under spirit influence, drew a j (|
large audience to the weekly meeting, which was held on Wednesday j j;
evening last in the Lecture-room of the Society of Natural Science, j /1
Lower Bridge-street, Chester. It had been arranged that the question | j
Mr. Morse was to speak upon should be selected by the audience in the j S i
room, and upwards of a dozen questions were handed in to the chairman I !
to be put to the meeting. The one which received the largest number j (
of votes read as follows :—“ If the communications of the spirits are for j 11
the purpose of convincing mankind of an hereafter, why do they make j j j
their manifestations by means of kicks, thumps, table rapping, scratching, j j j
nose pulling, or slate writing ? ” ! j j
Mr. Morse, who was received with applause, at once rose to answer j (j
it, and in commencing said it would be at once conceded by every person j j j
of average attainments that it was rather the end to be attained than j 11
the means by which the object was accomplished that should be con- | j ]
sidered. Let them suppose that the object of these spirits who had ] (j
communication with man was to give him such evidence as should j j i
satisfy him that there were such beings in existence, it seemed to them !! I
that if this object were accomplished by such ignoble means as nose i j
pulling, table rapping, &c., a great deal had been gained. And having j 11
admitted the possibility of this, might it not often open the way to better j (|
things, might it not be the foundation upon which a fairer structure 11 j
could be erected ? At least one of the possibilities of these efforts would | / j
be that it would bring them into contact with the spiritual life. Such | (j
arguments as these would be perfectly sufficient for the purpose of j j
answering the question submitted. But they were not satisfied with |}
arguments such as these. He would ask first what were the objects of (j
this communion, and secondly, what were the methods employed to give j j I
effect to those objects ? In this world everything must be either 111
beneficial or otherwise. Spiritualism has appealed to the suffrages of j j
the world in its present modern day form for some thirty years. It has j > j
run the round of all grades of society, it has taken possession of all | M
conditions of minds, and surely so widespread, so rampant a delusion j (j
must have something more behind it than mere fancy, smoke, and j ! j
theory. Where there is so much smoke, may we not just suppose that i \ j
there is at least a modicum of fire ? And granting the presence of that j (j
fire, who can say how little may be required to fan it into a flame ? If nj
Spiritualism is of any use in the world, its primary use must be that •; j j
suggested in the first part of the question before us. But let us first j j j
take the question in this form. Granting the present day evidence of ill
immortal life, is such present day evidence necessary ? Has not the j (|
world got on quite well enough without it ? Are not men perfectly | (1
satisfied without the revelation they possess ? They would answer, j | i
‘‘ Yes, a great number are perfectly satisfied, but a great number are not I j j
so well satisfied—are inclined, in fact, to put the question in the position ! j i
of not proven.” They would like to have more evidence, would like to put the | j I
question to the test of reason’s crucible. They ask for evidence of immortality, j J j
Revelation, they say, has failed to give them that evidence; logic has j)!
played sad havoc with all their tender susceptibilities, and the result ||j
has been that, having asked for bread, they have received a stone. Is . (
there not need, then, for present day evidences 1 You can appeal to such j j j
people by faith no longer ; you have tried, and they have escaped the | / j
ordeal scathless, and until they have better evidence, they will remain j (|
outside in the region of infidelity. You may say—These people have | j |
no right to reject the evidence of revelation. It is all very well to say j /1
that, as long as you are not of the number of the outcasts. But there is j j I
wanted to-day a something that shall vitalise the old faith, that shall j | j
give a purpose to the arm of Christian truth. And where better can we in
find that something than in present day evidences which kill infidelity j (
with one sure blow, and bind it so that it may never rise again ? But j >
the means by which this is effected, you say, is table turning, &c. j (
Well, if these raps and kicks and thumps and nose pullings do more j j
than preaching has ever been able to do for the outcasts who want i [
evidence, the balance is in favour of the undignified efforts. The object I \
of Spiritualism is to bring these present day evidences before the consi- | (
deration of mankind. And now let me add to that statement that these j |
present day evidences are not bran new patent inventions sent down 1'
upon earth for the first time. Anyone acquainted with historical facts,
both sacred and profane, will know that a precisely similar kind of thing
has occurred all along the line of both sacred and profane history. But
why are not more dignified methods resorted to ? Why does not the
spiritual world send out its bravest and best decked in most glorious
robes? Well, the plain simple fact of the whole case is that the
spiritual world does not do this generally. This leads me to a very
awkward part of the question, so awkward, that 1 fear I shall tread
upon your susceptibilities. But in that case I must ask you to
remember that it was you who chose the subject, not I. What kind of
people, then, go into the spiritual world, and what kind of spirits are
permitted to come back into this world ? Dying not only concerns our
position after death, but our nature too. In other words, what will we
be after death is the whole problem. It is a question that can only be
answered in three ways. Either by taking a trip to the spirit world
and seeing for ourselves the condition of our departed friends, or else,
being content with the ordinary training and teaching on the subject, or
by believing the teachings of Spiritualism, and letting our friends come
back and tell us their experiences. But this will spoil some very pretty
theories. We must not let the dead tell tales, because if we admit
their reality we shall have to come to the conclusion that they know
more about the conditions of the other life living in them than we
do, not living in them. Spiritualism says that the spirit goes into the
other world neither better nor worse than now. Grant the fact that
there is a spiritual body, and that after death you are neither wiser nor
worse than when you left this world—it then follows that, seeing there a
great number of people of, certainly, very peculiar temperament who
leave this world, if they come back they are very likely to carry on
the same operations they were accustomed to when here. But is
it not easier to suppose that only the good and wise spirits will be able
to come back to men ? The only test that Nature ever imposes upon
any person is his knowledge of how any given object is to be accom¬
plished. And if the spirits who rap tables and pull noses can accomplish
by these means the purposes for which they were sent, the fact of their
being learned or Uncultured is altogether beside the question. “ What
is the good of it ?” some will say. In answering that I would first say,
“ Is it true ?” for if it is true it must be good. There never was a
truth yet that had no use in the world. The mode of proof, though, is
very undignified. But what matter the insignificance of the means
employed if by these means we are brought face to face with the gates of
immortality ? The means may be insignificant, contemptible; but what
invention is there in the world of science to-day, what invention known
to mechanics, that was not in the first instance carried to its final issue
by means quite as contemptible? (Cheers.) But if you contend that
nose pulling, table turning, &c., are necessary parts of Spiritualism, you
do wrong to the subject. It is said that public mediums are often
caught tripping, and that their imposture makes the whole question of
Spiritualism contemptible in the judgment of intelligent men. But
Spiritualism does not depend for its proof upon public paid medium-
ship. It rests upon facts, and if these are universally disproved it will
die and pass away. But until this is done Spiritualism will continue to
flourish and extend. If it was only intended to demonstrate the reality
of the future life we might get on very comfortably without it. But it
has other functions. The spirits who are allowed to come back must do
some good, or else their presence would not be so valuable as some
imagine. If Spiritualism did not branch out into other directions
besides mere phenomena we should be inclined to denounce it rather
than support it. In conclusion, Mr. Morse said that all Spiritualism
asked at their hands was a fair field and no favour; and this, at least,
it might ask from every impartial mind. The lecturer then resumed his
seat amid continued applause, after having spoken for upwards of an
hour. We have merely given a brief outline of his remarks; his address
from an elocutionary point of view alone was a treat seldom obtained in
Chester.
Several of the members afterwards put questions to Mr. Morse, who
answered them as they were put with a promptness and clearness that
were, if possible, even more remarkable than the ability of his address.
Time did not permit of a debate, but it was announced that a debate on
the subject would be arranged shortly.
A vote of thanks to Mr. Morse, proposed by the secretary and seconded
by Mr. C. Taylor, was unanimously passed, and the proceedings were
brought to a close.—Cheshire Observer.
Mrs. S. W. Fletcher, the mesmeric healer, being engaged upon
literary work, desires us to inform the public that she will be unable
to receive any new patients for the present.
On three occasions Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, of 21, Green-street)
Grosvenor-square, London, has tested the power of Miss Ross to read
character from bandwriting. We believe that the writing has some
mesmeric effect on Miss Ross, and that the character of the writer
then comes to her by spiritual impression. However that may be, in
two or three cases her delineations have been so precise, clear, and free
from error, as to leave no doubt that some genuine psychic phenomenon
is at the root of the matter. In two of Mrs. Gregory’s cases Miss
Ross was not given the names of the writers ; she was merely furnished
with a scrap cut out of a letter from each.
Narrow-mindedness.—We hear it asked if doctrinal zeal can, in
this country, be fanned into war. I answer, mix it with state matters,
and see. Show me a people, whether Catholic or Protestant, who
persistently shut their eyes and ears to free discussions and candid
investigation—who see no good, no honesty, and no religion outside
! the picket lines of their own church—who are so destitute of moral
sense as to base their regard and respect for their fellow man upon the
doctrine he professes, rather than upon the solid substratum of
| character he is known to possess, and I will show you people who
* have perpetual war in their hearts.— Clarke,
222 THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 8, 1878.
A BABY SONG. j
The following from last Monday’s Evening Standard was originally j j
quoted from The University Magazine. It is by Miss C. A. Burke, j /
and it is remarkable that although the London daily newspapers ] (
usually vulgarly abuse Spiritualists whenever they know them to be 11
such, anything in those papers not of merely ephemeral value is almost j ]
sure to be written by a Spiritualist:— j j
“Sweet little Enid—how did you come here—-
Into this kingdom of tears and sighs 1 j
Did you wander out of some fairy palace ? !
Or did you fall from the azure skies?
“ Did you drop at our feet from a golden sunbeam ?
Did the great stork bring you ? you creature small; | i
Were you cradled soft in the heart of a lily ?
Or hidden under a mushroom tall ?
“That swaying bulrush is twice your stature—
The sunflower set by the garden door
To the hollyhock whispers, ‘ Was ever a baby j |
So tiny seen in the world before ? ’ j j
“ How did you come by all your beauty ? ) j
Did an angel lend you those sweet blue eyes?
Did the fayfolk fashion those dainty fingers ? j j j
And print that dimple for our surprise ?
“ Did the ripe peach fall on your cheek and tint it ?
Did the jasmine whiten that forehead fair ?
Did the red rose blush on your lips for sweetness ? j i
And the silkworm spin you your golden hair ? i j i
“ Did the woodbirds teach you your wanton singing ? ; | j
And the brook your laughter so wild and gay ? i j I
Were your wee feet trained to those graceful dances
In some fairy ring where you chanced to stray ?
“ Sweet little Enid—or fay, or angel, ] j |
We blessed your coming, we bless it still; ; j
For there was a void in our hearts, my darling,
An aching void you were sent to fill.
“ * What do we think you ? ’ You know who’ll tell you—
Tempt her with flowers, your childish charms— ) i
What does she whisper ? * The sweetest baby
That ever was given to mother’s arms.’ ” ) I
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS, j
Last Monday night, at the first of the fortnightly winter meetings of j j
the British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell- j)
street, London, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., president of the j
Research Committee, occupied the chair. Among the listeners present |
were Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Massey, Dr. Wyld, Mr. William White ! (
(author of The Life of Swedenborg), Dr. Carter Blake, the Rev. W. i j
Stainton-Moses, M.A. (Oxon.), Mr. F. W. Percival, M.A. (Oxon). Mr. i \
George C. Joad, Mrs. W. Tebb, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Stack, and j j
Captain John James.
The Chairman opened the proceedings by welcoming those who J (
attended the first meeting of the session. He said that the programme j j
of the papers of the session had been carefully drawn up by Mr. Stainton- j)
Moses; in the discussions at the meetings, Spiritualistic subjects were j (
dealt with in the light of pure reason, without any animosity or j {
personalities. I {
Dr. Carter Blake then, in the absence of the author, read Mr. Bon- (
wick’s paper on 1'he Soul-Ideas of the Ancient Egyptians, published on ] j
the next page of this number of The Spiritualist.
Mr. Gerald Massey wished to know whether Mr. Bonwick had found ! (
anything in Egyptian records connected with the phenomena of 11 j
Spiritualism; he had been searching for years without being able to find j j ]
any proof that the Egyptians believed in Spiritualistic manifestations, j ( j
with the exception of one case, where a soul was represented as re- I) j
turning to reanimate a mummy. He thought all the religious ideas of ill
the ancient Egyptians were based upon certain ordinary material facts of j S j
nature. Mr. Bonwick had recently published a book on the same j) I
subject as his paper of that evening; also another book on the Pyramids: {j j
both works were very useful, but he wished that they had references in j
them. Much of Egyptian mythology was founded upon astronomical j j |
facts. The ancient Egyptians believed in transformation, but not in (
reincarnation.
Dr. Wyld wished to know how far Egyptian ideas were derived from j j
their knowledge of mesmeric phenomena, and of clairvoyance. ) j
Mr. Gerald Massey could only account for the absence of mention ) |
of psychic phenomena, on the theory that when they knew the facts ( I
they did not alter their earlier mode of expression, but went on reading j (j
into it. They had done this with other of their newer ideas.
The Chairman said that the Egyptian Book of the Dead contained i (j
these three expressions:—“ I have given thee thy spirit: I have | j;
given thee thy soul: I have given thee thy force.” In this sentence the j / {
modern idea of body, soul, and spirit was included.
Mr. Gerald Massey remarked that the Book of the Dead was at least j j |
seven thousand years old, and before it began the Egyptian mythology j \ i
was extant. He believed that the birthplace of the human race was in j j j
the tropics; that the Egyptians were black men untold ages ago, but I / i
that they were almost red men when they began on the monuments; i < j
the time required for these and other organic changes in the race was j j i
so great as to be beyond calculation. There was no idea in the j) \
Christian theology not to be found in Egyptian records, with the excep- j < i
tion of that of God being made man. He pointed out what he con- i ) j
sidered to be the primitive order of inflections from word-roots, of which 1 ‘
he traced the history in detail in the English, Hottentot, and ancient
Egyptian languages. He further urged the correlation between many
words, which he found identical in various parts of the world, and
suggested that much time must have been necessary for the filiation of
such languages as, e.g., the Hottentot, which commenced by uttering a
ph sound, which afterwards became pp, and finally b. He condemned
the school of Egyptologists represented by Max Muller, and announced
that he was about to publish a large work on that subject.
Miss Easlingbury said that Mr. Bonwick had put forward in his paper
the opinion that the Egyptians embalmed their dead, not because they
expected the resurrection of the body, but of something which remained
associated with the body—the earthly soul, as it were—which awaited
in the mummified corpse some future reunion with the real spirit, after
this had passed through certain purgatorial states. Miss Kislinghury
would like to know whether this belief, which appeared somewhat akin
to the views of some Spiritualists, might not have been held by the
early Christians, and not the resurrection of the actual physical body,
which Bishop Wordsworth had lately asserted in his sermon against
cremation to be still the teaching of the Church.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses said that there was no doubt that the
resurrection of the physical body was one of the doctrines of the early
Christian Church. He wished to know if there were any evidence of
the importation of the religion of Egypt from India. The Egyptian
religion was a religion of daily life; it regarded the body as the habita¬
tion of the soul, therefore as a sacred temple to be cared for day by
day. It had a kind of ritual of work, recognising the presence of
the Supreme as underlying everything. It seemed to be a reaction
from the religion of contemplation of the Hindus, a religion which
despised the body, and regarded the present life as something to be got
rid of as soon as possible. He thought that evidence existed that in
their temples the Egyptians practised mesmerism and magic, but the
knowledge, perhaps, belonged to a narrow caste, who did not put their
methods on record.
Mr. Thomas Shorter thought that our limited information about the
amount of knowledge of psychology possessed by the Egyptians was due
to their secrecy. They knew something about mesmerism and entrance-
ment, as set forth in the book by lamblichus upon Egypt and other
Eastern nations. Some of the gods of Greece were risen and deified
men, and the religion of Greece was largely derived from Egypt.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said—In connection with this discussion some
articles printed in back volumes of The Spiritualist are interesting,
namely, “ The Doctrine of Immortality among the Ancient Egyptians,”
by M. Constant, of Smyrna, in the numbers of Sept. 11th and Nov. 6th,
1874, and Jan. 1st, 1875. Also “ Spirit Teachings,” Nos. 42, 43, and 44.
Dr. Carter Blake, in reply to Mr. Shorter, pointed out that the
authenticity of the works of lamblichus was much disputed, and it was
a moot point whether the work was very ancient. In reply to Miss
Kislinghury, he said that, although the early Christians at Rome
undoubtedly practised sepulture, yet evidence had been accumulated
that cremation, or urn-burial, was not altogether absent in some Chris¬
tian interments. In reply to Mr. Stainton-Moses, he recognised the
importance of that part of Mr. Bonwick’s paper in which the prior
antiquity of Egyptian to Indian mythology was insisted on, and read a
quotation from Professor Owen’s Ethnology of Egypt, in which it was
stated that “ From the priests of On the Grecian sage (Plato) received
the doctrine of the immortality of the souland “ All other histories
are comparatively recent after that of Egypt.” He regretted that no
expert Egyptologist of the school of Lepsius, Champollion, or Birch had
addressed them on Mr. Bonwick’s paper. He would not follow out some
of the speculations which had been given, though he was certainly under
the impression that Dev was a Sanskrit word signifying a deity, and
convertible, according to German law as interpreted by Schleicher, into
0foe, or Deus. The connection between Tom (the “piper’s son”) of
nursery legends and the Egyptian Turn was not clear; and the theory
that the word Hottentot was derived from an Egyptian source presup¬
posed that the old Dutch travellers who proceeded to the Cape, and
named the “clicking ” natives Hottentots, were conversant with Egyptian
literals. With regard to the labial sounds, we need not go so far as the
Cape to find a nation like the ancient Greeks, in whose alphabet the
sounds jS, tt, and were distinct, even without the digamma. The word
eiflwXov, which had been frequently used, was certainly accented with
the second syllable long. He apologised for mentioning such elementary
facts.
The proceedings then closed.
Great quantities of copies of The Spiritualist have been put into
circulation gratuitously during the past fortnight, and a few more
packages are still obtainable by those who will make good use of them
and pay their carriage.
Mr. T. P. Bareas writes to us that he has never seen the charac¬
teristic of jealousy between the two Newcastle physical mediums. We
can add that it is the same with Mr. Williams, who has always spoken
of other mediums as well as he could, and during a long course of
years has acted in a way which gained him the general respect of
Spiritualists.
Spiritualistic Soiree.—Last Wednesday night, at the first of the
winter series of monthly Spiritualistic soiries, at 38, Great Russell-street,
London, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald presided, and gave a few words of
welcome on the occasion of the reunion. In the course of the evening
he also interested the company by exhibiting at work the galvanometric
apparatus for testing mediums. Mr. F. Barrett also entertained those
present by exhibiting in action the new self-recording machinery for
registering the weight of mediums during manifestations. Mr.
Dawson Rogers was the steward. During the evening some excel¬
lent singing and music were given by Mrs. Edwin Ellis, Mr. Little, the
Misses Withall, Miss Kislirigbury, and Miss Maltby.
Nov. 8, 187&.
THE SPlillTtJAlIS^.
223
SOUL-EDEAS OF THE ANCIENT EGYPTIANS.*
BT JAMBS BONWIOK, F.R.G.S.
These ideas are of especial interest to us, since they were
cherished in the very infancy of civilisation; or, at any rate,
were received by the first historically-known civilised people.
The metaphysical conceptions of the Greeks yield evidences
of their derivative characters. A study of more ancient
writings than those of Plato and Aristotle leads us to foun¬
tain heads of Athenian learning. Trading communication
with Phoenicia opened up that Oriental means of intelligence.
India was only known through a Phoenician medium before
the Alexandrian epoch. Chaldean wisdom reached the
iEgean Sea through Tyre and Tarsus.
The soul-ideas of Greeks can be traced distinctly enough
to the Yedas and Zendavesta. But ancient as those writings
of the Aryans of India and Persia undoubtedly are, and more
remote than had at one time been imagined, they are both
thousands of years younger than the Sacred Books of Egypt.
Without entering upon the question of how far those Aryan
forefathers of ours were indebted to the land of Ham for
their knowledge, it will be admitted by every one that the
investigation of Egyptian notions brings us nearer the real
youth of mankind than any inquiries elsewhere.
Two thousand years before Troy, or even Babylon, Thebes
was flourishing ; and before Thebes, Memphis and the Pyra¬
mids, existed. Excepting such colossi as the Pyramids and
the great Sphinx, the buildings of Egypt, whose ruins we
see, are absolutely of less antiquity than some parts of the
Egyptian Scriptures in our possession. Portions at least of
that Bible may be assumed 2,500 years older than the books
of Moses.
The Egyptians, unlike the Hebrews, were a metaphysical
race, and at a very early period had settled to their satisfac¬
tion the dogma of the soul’s immortality. Sir Gardner
Wilkinson, Dr. Birch, and such French authorities as MM.
Lenormant, Pierret, Deveria, Kouge, &c., are agreed that
the religion of Egypt was fixed in character at the age of
the Great Pyramid.
The Egyptian Scriptures consist of several books. The most
complete copy of the so-called Ritual of the Dead has 165
chapters. In Abraham’s time there were 150 chapters.
Baron Bunsen dates some of the most ancientportions from the
very foundation of the monarchy. Several chapters are seen
written upon the coffin of a queen who reigned during the
Pyramid days.
What, then, do these ancient writings declare about the
soul?
In the first books of the Jewish Scriptures there are no
references to the fate of the soul. On the contrary, the very
central idea of the Egyptian Bible is the Resurrection. The
renewal of man’s existence after death is unmistakably
blazoned forth in the earliest chapters preserved to us.
The Pantheon of Egypt, the most primitive of all known
mythologies, is the purest in regard to morals, and the most
philosophical of remote speculations. The spirituality, so to
speak, of Egyptian gods and goddesses is as superior to the
classical conceptions of Greece and Rome as these may be
to the most degraded of African fetishisms. Osiris, Isis,
and Horus, it is true, had their part to play on this earth.
That part was associated with refinement of feeling, and the
honourable display of noble qualities calculated to elevate
man to heaven, and to extend his charity on earth. But
other gods and goddesses—all variously-named attributes
of abstract Deity—existed apart from this world, though in
no locally-enthroned Olympus. They were thus spiritual
in essence.
A people whose divinities were immaterial would naturally
attach immateriality, as commonly implied by that word, to
their own thinking powers.
Some think Egyptian ideas were like those now prevailing
among Buddhists. The latter admit five distinct parts of
man, each of which disappears after death. But the essence
of these, or human desires of the individual, may be said to
reappear in another state or body, different from the deceased,
and yet, in a sense, the perpetuation of himself. As
Gautama Buddha was only a reformer of his country’s faith,
and no mere originator of opinions, he may have thus de¬
veloped in his sermons the ancient creed of Egypt.
I A number of Egyptian words for soul have received a
j variety of interpretations, as it is difficult to translate terms of
! abstract qualities. But the ordinary word for soul is sahou.
| This is described by M. Deveria in almost Buddhist phrase-
| ology: te It was a new being formed by the reunion of
| corporeal elements elaborated by nature, and in which the
I soul was reborn, in order to accomplish a new terrestrial
| existence.” Re-incarnation was distinctly taught in Egypt,
| though not, as far as we see, in the very earlier periods of
I religious history.
The sakou was pictured as a bird. In some cases it is
I being carried off from a dead body by another bird, or spirit,
| its special convoy to a fresh sphere. One very ancient
: | human figure has been discovered, on the breast of which is
'! | represented a human-headed dove, to denote the coming
I resurrection of the deceased. The emblem of the Holy
j Spirit was thus early recognised.
The sahou is, also, pictured as a bird, with a human head,
} returning to the mummy. After the man’s decease, it had
; I gone to Amenti, or Hades. There it had endured the disci-
! pline of purgatory, becoming purified of its earth defilement,
/1 and it was now hastening to re-unite itself with a something
j in that corpse. What was the attraction ?
Along with that preserved body was the ordinarily invi-
I sible quality, well known to Spiritualists of all ages, and
( called by various names. This something was attached to
/ i the frame. Egyptians speak of ha, khou, ha, khaha, akh,
j apart from the mummy. One authority says the sahoro
went to the Amenti; another thinks the ba was the traveller,
i One supposes ka to be the animal soul; khaba, the astral
; i form, or shadow; akh, the terrestrial intelligence ; and ba,
the higher soul. But there is a general agreement that one
I soul, or portion of a soul, passed through the necessary
j' j forms in(Hades for pardon and purification, while the other
i was retained in or with the mummy.
The priest said or sang a variety of prayers or incantations
over the corpse, with the avowed object of keeping the
/ members alive, though in an inactive, latent state. It was
possible, as in the case of the dead Osiris, for a part of the
body to re-develop activity. The very care taken to pre¬
serve the frame, so marked a feature in the customs of
Egypt, was intended to retain the presence of that spiritual
j body, while the other, or duplicate, soul was on its disciplinary
j tour somewhere else.
The resurrection necessitated the union of the soul that re-
! mained with the mummy to the sahoro, or soul, that had
passed the trials of purgatory. That union was, in fact, the
I true resurrection. After the final judgment below, the soul
j joyfully rejoined the spiritual body, and rose with it, as
believed, to the mansions of glory. This idea, so strictly in
j harmony with the fifteenth chapter of the first of Corinthians,
j was accepted in Egypt ages before the call of Abraham.
The hope of the Egyptian was that he should rise again,
as Osiris arose from the dead. That god was not only his
Saviour, but his representative. The deceased himself became
Osiris by name ; and being, as supposed, related to that deity,
he must necessarily live after disappearance here.
The King-worship of Egypt was at first the deification of
j man after death; and, subsequently, even before death, as
he personified the god Horus, or rising sun, the first fruits
j of the grave. The King was adored because his soul was in
some mysterious sense Divinity itself. The act of coronation,
! or, rather, the consecration service attending it, had as
[ miraculous an effect upon him as the consecration of
I I eucharistic bread by the Egyptian priests. These religious
| persons, though not themselves divine, could, by their
| ! prayers, turn the bread cakes into the real flesh of Osiris or
| Isis, and the soul of the King into the soul of Horus the
j I g°d.
Egyptian magicians declared themselves endowed with the
j I i spirit of some one particular celestial being; in the name of
that deity they authoritatively called upon another of the
heavenly powers to obey their will. All the ordinary opinions
of modern Spiritualists were recognised in Egypt. Spirits
hovered about the mummied body; spirits influenced, and
even possessed, the living; spirits could be called or driven
forth by mediums; spirits foretold events and wrought
wonderful deeds. At the same time it must be observed
that the Egyptians did not receive Demonology or Black
* A paper read last Monday night before the British National Association of Spiritualists.
224
THE SPIRITTJALIST.
ttov. 8, 1878.
Magic, so prominent in old Chaldaeaand Christian mediaeval
countries, traceable to an African or a Turanian source.
The diversity of opinions in Egypt testifies to the in- |
quiring spirit of the people and the absence of dogmatic
authority. The future fate of the soul was not so distinctly
indicated in their Bible, but that men could speculate from
chapter and verse as to what became of the spirits of the |
dead, in the same way as our theologians do.
But there is this difference. Some of our divines can find, !
as they consider, Scripture authority for non-immortality of j
soul. No materialist could quote texts from Egyptian |
writings in support of such a dogma, since they are at least
clear upon continued existence, in some form, after death.
Still, these holy books were not precise, or our interprela-
tation is obscure upon the condition of the soul. While !
certain passages favour the theory of eternal punishments, j
others point to a restoration after a course of trial. The ]
phrase “gift of eternal life ” occurs repeatedly, as if the j
gods made a special grant of immortality, according to the j
idea entertained by Mr. Dale, of Birmingham. At a later i
period the Pantheistic doctrine of absorption supplanted the j
original faith with the more philosophical class. Egyptians, j
like the moderns, indulged in speculation on such subjects, j
having no thought of the employment of experimental i
science to determine the question of intellectual being.
It is but natural that we should inquire into the origin of j
Egyptian soul-ideas, and how the notions of the nineteenth
century a.d. were so accordant with those of, say, the
thirtieth or even fortieth century b.c.
Some will assume these soul-ideas to be the remnants of
an original revelation to the Egyptians, or to some earlier
and now forgotten people.
Others suppose they grew with the gradual advance from
barbarism. Men saw sunrise follow sunset, plant life spring
from plant death, and so associated death of man with a
reappearance somewhere. Mummies evidence a belief in I
the soul’s resurrection, and we have no knowledge of Egypt j
when these were non-existent. A belief in soul, as inde- j
pendent of body preceded, therefore, that preservation of
the body. Whether this was 7,000 or 10,000 years ago, we !
have no means of determining.
The steady faith, in the vastly remote Pyramid days, that
the dead would rise again, must have given hope to the j
dying and joy to the bereaved, while affording a motive for
the exercise of virtue on earth. A gradual decline of morals I
in Egypt would seem to have accompanied the gradual de¬
parture from the simple soul-ideas of more primitive times. I
CHUECH TESTIMONY TO THE EEALITY OF SPIKITUAL I
MANIFESTATIONS.
ST. CHRYSOSTOM.
“ But if any one assert that these Miracles in the Acts of I
the Apostles are mere smoke, and a fictitious wonder un- |
worthy of credit, let us view those of the present day, which
are calculated both to stop and to put to shame the blas¬
pheming mouth, and to check the unbridled tongue. For, j
throughout our whole habitable world, there is not a country, I
a nation, or a city, where these wonders are not commonly |
spoken of, which, if figments, would never have occasioned j
so much admiration. And you yourselves, indeed, might
testify for us to this. For we shall have no occasion to I
receive confirmation of what we assert from others, seeing
that you yourselves, our opponents, supply us therewith.”— j
Ed. Par. 1621, tom. 1.
ST. AUGUSTINE.
“ Answers to prayer come not only from members of the j
true church, but also pagans, and Jews, and heretics, though
abandoned to various errors and superstitions. These j
answers to prayer, however, they receive either from seducing j
spirits (who nevertheless can do nothing, unless they are per¬
mitted by God, who supremely and ineffably decrees what is I
to be allotted to each), or from God himself, either for the
punishment of their wickedness, or for the consolation of j
their misery, or for admonition to seek eternal salvation. !
But no one really comes to salvation, and to life eternal, |
unless he have Christ for his Head.”—Tom. VII., p. 3, col. 4.
“ Moreover, if any one obtain an answer to prayer, praying
at the tombs of heretics, he receives good or bad, not accord- ‘
j ing to the merit of the place, but according to the desert of
! his own petition.”—Tom. VII. p. 3, col. 4.
! “ For, even now, miracles are wrought in His name,
j whether by his sacraments (ordinances), or by prayers, or
| the tombs of his saints. But they are not proclaimed with
| the same renown, so as to be equally spread abroad with the
| former. For the Sacred Yolume, which was to be made
| known on all sides, causes the former to be told everywhere
! and to hold their place in all men’s memories; but the latter
11 are known of, scarcely by the whole city or neighbourhood
11 where they may happen to be wrought.”—Tom. V., p. 299,
! | col. 2.
I I JUSTYN MARTYR.
“Now we also, who believe in Jesus, who was crucified
| under Pontius Pilate, exorcise, and have power over, all
| devils and evil spirits.”—Dialogue with Trypko.
TERTULLIAN.
“ Produce here some one, in your courts of justice, who
j is known to be possessed by a devil. The spirit, on being
| commanded by any Christian to speak, will as readily avow
j himself to be a devil, which he really is, as elsewhere a god,
II which he is not.”
LACTANTIUS.
“ They (the devils) dread the righteous; that is, the
worshippers of God, and go out when adjured by his name.
| Scourged by their words, as if by stripes, they not only
j acknowledge themselves to be devils, but tell their names,
| the same by which they are worshipped in the temple. This
! they do, for the most part, in the presence of their worship-
| pers, to the disgrace, not of true religion, but of that religious
service which is rendered to themselves : not being able to
! lie, either to God, in whose name they are adjured, or to the
I righteous, by whose voice they are tormented.”
ATHANASIUS.
“The Emperor said to Arius, on the day that the awful
death of the latter took place, and just after he had per-
| jured himself by his oath of orthodoxy, 4 If thy faith be
j sound, thou hast sworn well. If it be impious, and thou hast
sworn nevertheless, the Lord punish thy swearing.’ Shortly
after, his punishment came. Another circumstance is re¬
markable. His friends aimed at introducing him with
triumph into the church ; the believers prayed that he might
j never come there. His friends boasted that he should enter
| the church the next day. Alexander, Bishop of Constanti¬
nople, prayed that, if so, he himself might die; or, if the
I Lord pitied His people, He would remove Arius. Arius,
meanwhile, passing vainly and wantonly in triumph through
the city, was overtaken, as is well known, by a sudden and
horrid death. Accordingly, Athanasius himself uniformly
I speaks of the event as miraculous. He says of it, for instance,
j i A miraculous and supernatural event took place.’ And,
I referring to the same event, ‘ For the Lord Himself gave
j judgment between the threats of the Eusebians and the
prayer of Alexander, and condemned the Arian heresy.’
j And once more, still referring to Arius’s sudden and dreadful
death: ‘ For no other, but the Lord himself, whom they had
blasphemed, passed a sentence of condemnation on the
| heresy which had risen up against Him.’ And again, 1 My
| opinion is, that when the miracle of His death is known, not
! even those can dare to doubt, how hateful to God is the
I Arian heresy, who formerly questioned this.’ A faith in
I miracles appears in other parts of the works of Athanasius.
I refer not to the apparently superstitious narrative which
I is mixed up with his writings, but which, I believe, exists
| only in Latin, of miracles said to be done by an image in
| Berytho, a city of Syria. The following passage, which we
! have in the Greek, is doubtless from the pen of Athanasius
I himself; and plainly recognises the working of miracles in
i his own times. In the 4 Questions,’ the inquiry is made,
4 How do heretics work miracles V He replies by referring
to Matthew vii. 22 ; and adds, 4 For, frequently, it is not
j the sanctity of him who works the miracle that affects the
cure, but the faith respecting him of the person who comes
to him.”—Rev, Thos. Boys, M.A. ( Cantab J.
ST. GREGORY.
4‘ St. Gregory has been appealed to as teaching that miracles
^ are withdrawn : but he does not mean to assert this abso-
Nov. 8, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
225
lutely. He says, indeed, referring to his own times,4 The
low estate of the faithful is in a manner bereaved of the
multitude and notoriety of miracles.’ But it is clear that
he means only to speak comparatively: for he says before of
miracles, (The Divine appointment, indeed, does by no
means withdraw them wholly ; but it does not manifest them
so openly and frequently as in former times.’
u In another place, again, Gregory says, ‘ Be not, therefore,
dearest brethren, enamoured of signs, which may be had in
common with the reprobate.’ Here he clearly recognises
the possibility of signs, though he warns his brethren not to
lay too much stress on them. Just before, he speaks still
more plainly: {For those material miracles,* (he seems to
speak of them as opposed to spiritual miracles, or miracles
of grace,) 4 do sometimes afford evidence of holiness, but
they do not make it;’ and again, e Even bad men may have
them,’ (i.e.} work or experience them.”)—Rev. Thos. Roys,
M.A. ( CantabJ,
CALVIN.
tl One thing must not be omitted, that on the nineteenth
of December ” (1562), “ Calvin lying in bed sick of the gout,
it being the Sabbath-day, and the north wind having blown
two days strongly, he said to many who were present, ‘ Truly
I know not what is the matter, but I thought this night I
heard war-like drums beating very loud, and I could not
persuade myself but it was so. Let us therefore go to
prayers, for surely some great business is in hand.’ And
this day there was a great battle fought between the Guisians
and the Protestants not far from Paris, news whereof came to
Geneva within a few days after.”—Lives of Luther and
Calvin. London: 1740. p. 123.
LUTHEB.
Luther once witnessed a star-shower. The Rev. T. Boys
says that J. Jonas records <( that on the twenty-fourth of
October, 1533, from eleven to twelve at night, there ap¬
peared to Luther, in company with many others, 1 in the four
quarters of the heavens many thousands of small fiery
torches, flying about, really of a flame and fire colour; and
that Luther said that he had never seen anything similar
before; and that another day, about the same time, sounds
were heard in the air as of armies joining battle. On these
things Jonas observes, that Luther, who was a contemner of
the devil, and experienced in temptation, regarded them all
as the devil’s sleights, he terrifying men with false terrors,
when not able to do so with real ones.’ ”
The Jewish Expositor, May, 1831, thus describes how
Luther exorcised a spirit. “ They had brought to Luther a
girl eighteen years old, saying that she was possessed with
a devil. He ordered her to say the Apostles’ Creed. Having
begun to do so, the moment she came to the words, * and
in Jesus Christ, &c.,’ she stopped and was miserably agitated
(or convulsed) by the devil. Upon this Luther said, 11 know
thee, Satan. Thou wouldest have me begin exorcising with
great parade ; but I will do no such thing.’ The next day
she was brought into the church, while Luther was preaching,
and, after sermon, into a small chapel. She there imme¬
diately fell prostrate on the ground, struggling and kicking ;
but was raised by the students who were present. Then
Luther addressed the people, and reminded them that it was
now no season for casting out devils by miracles, nor had the
Church, now it was established, need of them; and, more¬
over, that the Popish ceremonial was not to be followed, but
that prayers rather should be used against this spirit, and
that his pride should be contemned : for that they ought not
to assign to God the time and manner, in which he should
please to cast out the devil, for that thus God would be
tempted; but that prayer must be persevered in, and the
hour which God had appointed for her deliverance patiently
waited for. After that, Luther laid his hand on the girl’s
head, repeated the Creed and the Lord’s Prayer, as also the
words, John xiv. 12: 4 He that believeth on me, the works
that I do shall he do also, and greater works than these shall
he do.’ He then prayed to God with the rest of the mini¬
sters of the church, that, for Christ’s sake, he would cast the
devil out of the girl. He then with his foot touched the
girl herself, with these words : ‘ Proud devil, thou wouldst,
indeed, that I should now proceed against thee with great
parade, but I will do no such thing. I know that thy head
is crushed, and that thou liest prostrate at and under the
feet of our Lord Jesus Christ.’ He then went away; and
the girl was taken home again to her friends, who afterwards
wrote that she was no more troubled with the devil. There
is nothing in this account, says Muller, unworthy of our
evangelical doctor; and it deserves credit, though ten monks,
and as many Jesuits, tell the story differently. The same
opinion, namely, that prayer is the proper remedy in such
cases, Luther had given in the year 1536, as we have already
mentioned.”
Emser opposed Luther’s theological opinions, and pub¬
lished an opposition version of the New Testament. Seck-
endorf records that Luther wrote to Hausmann :—“1 No
answer, good Nicolaus, is to be returned to Emser, for it is
of such an one that Paul says, He is subverted and con¬
demned of himself; and he is to be shunned, for he sinneth
the sin unto death. Yet a little, and I will pray against
him, that the Lord may render to him according to his works.
For it is better that he die, than that he go on thus blaspheming
Christ against his own conscience. Therefore let him alone;
the wretched man, too swiftly for him, will be effectually
quieted. But do thou also cease to pray for him.’ . . . These
things came to pass, not long after, as we shall observe in
the proper place .... Emser riding by, and seeing him
setting out with his movables, broke forth into the follow¬
ing words : 4 Gladly do I behold this day, because the sermons
of a heretic are put a stop to. Go in the devil’s name : I
remain here.’ Alexins answered. 1 In God’s name, you
should say, Emser. I was in Misnia before you, and shall
remain there, when you are no more.’ What followed ? That
evening, Emser, having partaken of a splendid entertainment
with a certain citizen, a chief man of Leipzic, and others, and
going aside when the guests had departed, after horrible
words and contortions, was taken off by a sudden death.”
Luther frequently displayed the power of prevision. He
was also a healing medium. u The rest,” says Seckendorf,
(i I will relate in the words of Solomon Glasse, Superin¬
tendent-General of Gotha, of blessed memory, a consummate
theologian, whom, when a youth of fourteen, studying in the
school of Gotha, I had, nearly two years, as my spiritual
adviser. Him, even then, indeed, I highly esteemed, so far
as I was capable of appreciating him; and while, on account
of the weakness of his voice, very few could understand him
when preaching, or cared to listen to him; I for my part
took down his discourses, and felt the highest admiration for
his doctrine, which was most accurate, and in exposition
almost unrivalled. But so great a man needs not my com¬
mendation Luther arrived and found Philip about
to give up the Ghost. His eyes were set, his understanding
was almost gone, his speech had failed, and also his hearing ;
his face had fallen, he knew no one, and had ceased to take
either solids or liquids. At this spectacle Luther is filled
with the utmost consternation, and turning to his fellow-
travellers, says, ‘ Blessed Lord, how has the devil spoiled me
this instrument!’ Then, turning away towards the window,
he called most devoutly upon God.” .... Glasse proceeds:
“ After this, taking the hand of Philip, and well knowing
what was the anxiety of his heart and conscience, he said,
‘ Be of good courage, Philip, thou shalt not die. Though God
wanteth not reason to slay thee, yet He willeth not the death
of a sinner, but that he may be converted and live. He
takes pleasure in life, and not in death. Inasmuch as God
has called and taken back to His favour the greatest sinners
that ever lived on earth, namely, Adam and Eve, much less,
Philip, will He cast off thee, or suffer thee to perish in thy
sin and sorrow. Wherefore give not place to the spirit of
grief, nor become the slayer of thyself; but trust in the
Lord, who is able to kill, and to make alive.’ While he thus
utters these things, Philip begins, as it were, to revive and to
breathe, and, gradually recovering his strength, is at last
restored to health.” Luther afterwards wrote to Lange:
“Philip is very well after such an illness, for it was greater
than I had supposed. I found him dead : but, by an evident
miracle of God, he lives.” He also wrote to a friend : “ Toil
and labour have been lost, and money spent to no purpose ;
nevertheless, though I have succeeded in nothing else, yet
have I fetched back Philip out of hell; and I intend to bring
him, now rescued from the grave, home again with joy, if
’ God will, and with His grace, Amen.”
226
TtfE SPIRITUALIST.
ttov. S, 1§78.
JOHN KNOX. ;S]
John Knox frequently displayed the power of prevision.
The Kev. T. Boys says :—“ On another occasion we find j (I
Knox a prisoner on board the galleys ; and, to all appear- j) j
ance, at the point of death. Yet he prophecies not only his j
restoration to health and liberty, but also his enlargement to j j
preach the Gospel once more, in a church of which he saw | j
the steeple from the water. Lying betwixt Dundee and St. (j
Andrews, the second time that the galley arrived in Scotland, j j
the said John Knox being so extremely sick that few hoped j j
his life, the said Master James Belford called him to look to j I
the land, and asked him if he knew it. Who answered, c Yes, j!
I know it well. For I see the steeple of that place, where !
God first opened my mouth in public to his glory. And I J
am fully persuaded, how weak that even now I appear, that I | |
shall not depart this life till that my tongue shall glorify j I
his godly name in the same place.’ This reported the said j (
Mr. James, in the presence of many famous witnesses many j |
years before that ever the said John set his foot in Scotland, ! |
this last time to preach.” j J j
“ Among abundance of instances that I could give, my j j j
conscience commandeth me here to give you this one, as j j j
belonging to the very words here written. I had a tumour j | j
rose on one of the tonsils or almonds of my throat, round i (j
like a pease, and at first no bigger; and at last no bigger j j j
than a small button; and hard like a bone. The fear lest it j j
should prove a cancer troubled me more than the thing itself. I
I used first dissolving medicines, and after lenient for pal- j >
liation; and all in vain for about a quarter of a year. At I
last my conscience smote me for silencing so many former
deliverances that I had had in answer of prayers; merely
in pride, lest I should be derided as making ostentation of
God’s special mercies to myself, as if I were a special
favourite of Heaven, I had made no public mention of them, |
I was that morning to preach just what is here written; and (
in obedience to my conscience, I spoke these words which
are now in this page ” (referring to the words above, to
which this note is appended), ** with some enlargements not
here written: when I went to church I had my tumour as j
before (for I frequently saw it in the glasse, and felt it con- j
stantly); As soon as I had done preaching, I felt it was j j
gone, and hasting to the glasse I saw that there was not the j
least vestigium, or cicatrix, or mark wherever it had been ; j j
nor did I at all discern what became of it. I am sure I j j!
neither swallowed it nor spit it out; and it was unlikely to j | j
dissolve by any natural cause, that had been hard like a j
bone a quarter of a year, notwithstanding all dissolving gar- |
garismes. I thought fit to mention this, because it was [
done just as I spoke the words here written in this page. |
Many such marvellous mercies I have received, and known j
that others have received in answer to prayers.” )
THE REFORMED CHURCH OF ENGLAND. >
The Bev. T. Boys, M.A., in his Miraculous Faith and Ex- j
perience of the Church of Christ (Hamilton and Co., 1832), j
gives interesting information about the Church of England, )
which we quote in an abridged form:— j j
“ Whatever attempts may now be made to suppress the j j
fact, the Church of England, as established at and after the | j
Reformation, will be found to have distinctly recognised the j I
doctrine of miracles; and that (1) in her Canons, (2) in her j j
Liturgy, and (3) in her Homilies. To be consistent, indeed, j i
no episcopal church can do otherwise: for the doctrines of J(|
apostolic succession and miraculous succession must stand | /1
or fall together. | i |
“1. The seventy-second Canon directs, somewhat quaintly, ! j I
that no minister or ministers shall, without the license of |) j
the bishop of the diocese, ‘ attempt, upon any pretence what- j (j
soever, either of possession or obsession, by fasting and J
prayer, to cast out any devil or devils, under pain of the j | j
imputation of imposture or cosenage, and deposition from j (j
the ministry.’ It is clear that this direction does not deny j ? |
the possibility of Satanic possession. .... In the table of ] 11
contents of the Constitutions and Canons Ecclesiastical, the j j)
reference to the seventy-second Canon stands thus:— j j j
“ * Ministers not to appoint public or private fasts or prophecies, or to j) i
exorcise, but by authority.’ j (
“ But it so happens that the same canon says something 11 j
about exercises: advantage was taken of this to get rid of ! '
exorcism by the variation of a single letter ; and, in other
copies, the reference stands thus :—
“ f Ministers not to appoint public or private fasts or prophecies, or to
exercise, but by authority.’
<£ 2. The Book of Common Prayer also, in its unabridged
form, contained a distinct recognition of miraculous gifts. I
refer to the gift of healing, said to have been exercised by
the kings of England. . . . The service used on the occasion
when people came to be healed, and the king performed the
ordinance of touching, was formerly a part of our Prayer-
book ; and I understand there are editions as late as 1721 or
1723, in which it yet retains its place. . . . The circum¬
stance of most importance is, that we have distinct evidence
of the recognition of this gift of healing by our Church, in
her Protestant character. ... To this miraculous gift it is
that reference is made by Bishop Bull, in a passage which
the kindness of a friend enabled me to quote on a former
occasion, and which I now quote again:—
“ ‘ And (by the way) perhaps this is the best account that can be
given of the relique and remainder of the primitive gift of healing, for
some hundred years past, visible in this our nation, and annexed to the
succession of our Christian Kings : I mean the cure of the otherwise
generally incurable disease, called morbus regius, or the King’s Evil.
That divers persons desperately labouring under it have been cured by
the mere touch of the royal hand, assisted with the prayers of the priests
of our Church attending, is unquestionable, unless the faith of all our
ancient writers, and the consentient report of hundreds of most credible
persons in our own agej (the writer died 1709-10), ‘ attesting the same,
be to be questioned.’
“ Thus, up to not many years before the service was finally
excluded from our Prayer-book, we find a bishop asserting
the gift, and asserting it upon the consentient report of hun¬
dreds of most credible persons in his own age, attesting the
same.
(< 3. The homily £ Against Peril of Idolatry ’ plainly
admits that, £ where images be,’ some miraculous acts may
have been done by illusion of the devil; observing, that
neither ought miracles to persuade us to do contrary to God’s
word. For the Scriptures have for a warning hereof fore¬
showed that the kingdom of Antichrist shall be mighty in
miracles and wonders, to the strong illusion of all the
reprobate.
“ The same homily, also, to prove the estimation in which
Epiphanius, who flourished towards the end of the fourth
century, was held, cites a passage recording miracles wrought
by him. And in the Tripartite Ecclesiastical History, the
ninth book, and forty-eighth chapter, is testified that
7 Epiphanius, being yet alive, did work miracles, and that
after his death devils, being expelled at his grave or tomb,
did roar.’ Thus you see what authority St. Jerome, and that
most ancient history, give unto the holy learned Bishop
Epiphanius, whose judgment of images in churches and
temples, then beginning by stealth to creep in, is worthy to
be noted.
“ The homily for Whit-Sunday distinctly represents the
Holy Spirit as still working miraculously, and conferring
miraculous gifts.
“ ‘ Here is now that glass, wherein thou must behold thyself, and
discern whether thou have the Holy Ghost within thee, or the spirit
of the flesh. If thou see that thy works be virtuous and good, con¬
sonant to the prescript rule of God’s word, savouring and tasting not
of the flesh but of the Spirit, then assure thyself that thou art en¬
dued with the Holy Ghost; otherwise, in thinking well of thyself,
thou dost nothing else but deceive thyself. The Holy Ghost doth
always declare himself by his fruitful and gracious gifts; namely, by
the word of wisdom, by the word of knowledge, which is the understand¬
ing of the Scriptures by faith, in doing of miracles, by healing them that
are diseased, by prophecy, which is the declaration of God’s mysteries,
by discerning of spirits, diversities of tongues, interpretation of tongues,
and so forth. All which gifts, as they proceed from one Spirit, and are
severally given to man according to the measurable distribution of the
Holy Ghost; even so do they bring men, and not without good cause, into
a wonderful admiration of God’s Divine power.’ ”
(Korresponnence.
t Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]  
SPECTRES OF ANIMALS.
Str,—In the number of The Spiritualist, October 18th, you mention
that the Revue Spirite contains a curious letter concerning the apparition
of a dog, and that the writer would be glad if other Spiritualists could
give him any explanation of this strange phenomenon. Being a
Spiritualist myself of some few years’ standing, and a reader of your
paper as well as The Medium and other Spiritualistic works, lean give
Nov. 8, 1878.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
227
him the benefit of my experience, which he may take for what it is j j
worth. The case of the writer is not unique. From the number of j)
cases I have read about and heard of from trustworthy persons of the I (
sight of spectral animals, more especially dogs, I should be led to infer j j
that these phenomena are nearly, if not quite as common as the appa- I)
ritions of deceased relatives and friends. I will give two instances from | j
among the many that I could quote, as I consider them sufficiently well j [
authenticated to establish this phenomenon as a fact. j)
Several years ago I had a studio in London, and a female model of | (
respectable character used to come occasionally to pose for the hands, j j
I knew very little of Spiritualism then, although I Lad seen certain | /
phenomena through the mediumship of Mr. Forster and Mrs. Marshall, | j
which to my mind placed spirit-communion as a fact beyond dispute, j j
At one time this model came rather frequently; she seemed to me to be j (
more intelligent than the generality of her class. In course of conver- j}
sation I once broached the subject of Spiritualism, and although from her I j
discourse she had evidently read nothing on the subject, and heard as | j
little, yet she related to me certain experiences of her own, which |
showed me at once that she was strongly mediumistic. She informed )
me, amongst other strange occurrences, that from a child she had been (
followed for months at a time by the apparition of a large black dog with j
fiery eyes, invisible to all but herself. That it would disappear some- (
times for years, then re-appear. That the dreadful apparition would (
follow her up and down stairs, and even through the streets, where j
she observed that the people, without noticing the dog, involuntarily j (
made room for it in the crowd. That she grew so accustomed to the j
vision as no longer to fear it, nor did she ever allude to the phenomenon, j j
as she knew it would be treated as an hallucination, and bring ridicule (
upon herself. She said that once, when sitting to me in my studio, she j
had seen the dog couching on the floor, with its eyes fixed upon her. )
She made no remark at the time, nor had she ever seen it since. This (
same person used to have dreams that were verified in a remarkable j
manner. An artist friend of mine, at whose studio this model was in the )
habit of sitting, had a very sharp little boy, who, after surveying the (
physiognomy of the aforesaid person whilst his father was at work at his j
easel, advised his papa, in his childish manner, sotto voce, not to have l
anything to do with her, as he was sure that she was a “ bad un.” (
Children are often highly mediumistic. William Blake, poet, >
designer, and medium, was apprenticed by his father to an engraver at j
the ago of twelve, but objected to being placed under this master on the
score that something in his face told him he was born to be hanged.
His father naturally ridiculed the silly fancy; but although all agreed j i
that the engraver was a man of most agreeable manners, and the last of j
all men who seemed born to be hanged, yet a few years afterwards he i <
fell into difficulties and was tempted to commit forgery, in those days a i l
hanging offence, so that the prophecy of the youthful poet was carried j
out to the letter. I
The person I mentioned above once briefly told me she went to a J
witch (probably a good clairvoyant) to have her fortune told. However, j (
the Sybil, after eyeing her narrowly, refused to tell her fortune, bidding j i
her “ be off,” as she wished to have nothing to do with her. Here, you |1
see, the child and the fortune-teller seemed to have both of them formed !,
the same unfavourable impression of this person, namely, that for some j
reason or other she was to be avoided, while to the mere outward eye i
such a prejudice would seem unreasonable.
I now come to the second instance of the apparition of a dog, for |
which I have the testimony of my wife, who is herself mediumistic.
Several years ago, when yet a child, she was returning from a visit to
some friends in a neighbouring township. On the same day, and in the
same village from which I now write, a murder had been perpetrated j
amongst the peasantry—an assassination in the open streets—not an
unfrequent occurrence in these parts even now. The body of the
murdered man had been removed, and the crowd dispersed long before
my wife’s arrival. In fact, she had heard nothing whatever of the -
murder. Passing on foot through the narrow street where the murder j
had been committed, it being then about mid-day and the sun shining j
brightly, a strange dog, perfectly white, and of enormous size, suddenly j
presented itself before her, and looked into her eyes. Terrified at its j
size and sudden appearance she was unable to pass, when in a few
seconds it as suddenly disappeared, nor could she discover any further j
trace of it. She noticed that the wall of the house near where she had |
seen the apparition was stained with blood, but knew nothing of the j
murder until her return home, when her relations acquainted her with j
the fact. The time between the perpetration of the murder and the
apparition might have been two hours. It is also curious that while this j
apparition was looking into her eyes, something in their expression j
made her think of the family of the murdered man.
Now, here are two cases of apparition of spectral dogs. In both cases, j
as far as I can learn, the seers believed themselves to be in sound
health at the time. Is this hallucination ? If so, I have heard of cases j
of whole villages for a time being under a similar hallucination. For
my part, I am inclined to call it clairvoyance. From intelligence derived
from the spirit world, I have been informed that bad and degraded ]
spirits often take the form of dogs, the darkness of the colour of the
animal denoting the degree of spiritual degradation. I believe that j
spirit is capable of taking any form, and takes most readily that form ]
which corresponds to its present state, and I do not find it hard to j
believe that a spirit hurried out of its life in the body into a realm j
which it is not prepared to enter, should at the beginning assume a form !
lower in the scale of creation than the human, the spirit not having yet i
arrived at full spiritual growth. This is at least my explanation of the !
phenomenon mentioned in the Revue Spirite, which, as I said before, j
must be taken for what it is worth. I believe the writer in question to j
be clairvoyant, and followed by some unhappy spirit, perhaps not I
thoroughly bad, in the hope of being prayed for, and thus aided to I
progress in spirit life. This at least would be the conclusion drawn from j
my experience. I can say no more, i
I enclose my card with my usual address, which you are at liberty to
show to any Spiritualist or person honestly desiring to investigate
Spiritualism. I merely wish to avoid needless publicity. A. H.
Olevano Romano, Central Italy, Oct. 27th, 1878,
HBALIKG- MEDIUMSHIP.
Sib,—"Will you favour me by inserting in your next issue the follow¬
ing cure of an affection of the eyes through the healing power of Mr.
F. Omerin, 5, Northumberland-street, London.
My little girl, aged ten years, having been attacked last Easter with
inflammation and partial blindness of one eye, and failing to obtain any
relief from several eminent physicians (who pronounced the case con¬
stitutional), I placed her under the treatment of Mr. Omerin.
In one month, without the aid of any kind of medicine, he has suc¬
ceeded in effecting a permanent cure with the healing power of mes¬
merism by the simple process of passing his hands over the parts
affected. J. H. Vigor.
King’s-road, Chelsea, Nov. 1st, 1878.
THE ABOLITION OF CABINET SEANCES,
Sib,—Mr. Berks T. Hutchenson, in his letter from Cape Town, pub¬
lished in your journal of the 18th ult., says that the plan adopted at his
house with Mr. Eglinton, the medium, has been to sit without the use of
a cabinet, and that while the medium’s hands are held by two respon¬
sible members of the circle, large spirit forms have floated all over the
room at Mr. Hutchenson’s own house, rising to the ceiling, and showing
themselves quite distinctly. Well, sir, wonderful, interesting, and
instructive as this is, it is not uncommon by any means in London, and
has occurred there with other mediums besides Mr. Eglinton over and
over again. My suggestion is that at the present time, in certain cases,
and with these astounding manifestations, we should be contented. Why
ask more ? Because, here there can be no fraud. Let the forms only
show themselves floating right over the table, as they often do, to those
who form the seance seated round the table, so that we have positive
proof that only the upper part of the spirit is materialised, and not the
lower parts of the body and legs, and we shall then have no legitimate
cause to doubt the reality of the phenomenon. I can hardly expect but
that cabinets will be still useful, not only for test work, but also for
sometimes sparing the medium for, at any rate, temporary retirement,
always on condition that the spirit comes in such a way as that he can
not possibly bring back with him materialised body and legs. Moreover,
exemption from continuous contact with uncongenial persons at a seance,
by the medium’s entering the cabinet, if only for a few minutes, must
help conditions and greatly refresh the medium, always, be it remem¬
bered, more or less a sufferer; provided, as in the case of Miss Wood, as
also detailed in The Spiritualist of October 18th, the medium, after such
refreshment and renewal of power by isolation, returns to his place at
the stance. For my own part, I would say even let the medium stay
altogether in the cabinet, provided the “ spirit ” does not come
stalking out of it on materialised legs, and does not keep
walking behind the backs of the sitters, but floats boldly
in front of them over the table. When 'you get spirits to materialise
thus, and thus only, you must know for a surety that a good deal of the
medium remains behind in the cabinet, or sits on his chair at the seance,
as the case may be, whether you hear him moan or struggle or not. For
what possible reason, as a general rule, do we want the lower and
inferior parts of a spirit’s body to be materialised ? For once in a way
the phenomenon of the entire materialisation of a spirit’s body has
proved of the utmost importance, if only because it has substantiated
those ancient records of Spiritualism most difficult heretofore of belief.
Has not modern whole materialisation shown, for example, how in dark¬
ness a spirit could materialise himself so as to wrestle bodily with Jacob,
the Patriarch, during the night, until break of day, the spirit losing his
power with the advent of light ? Thus much for dark circles. And
have not our experiences of materialisation shown how a spirit can pass
through closed doors and then materialise itself, showing itself in the
light—body, hands, and feet—to convince the unbelieving ? But, as a
rule, whole materialisations are most undesirable, because there have
been more unfortunate circumstances connected with them, to the
detriment of Spiritualism, than from all other causes combined since
the Hydesville rappings first began. But imperious as is the above
cause for its discontinuance, except under exceptional circumstances,
there is yet another almost as serious objection to whole materialisations.
For only imagine what a large proportion of unnecessary vitality, or
weight, let us call it, is lost by this process; and I need hardly comment
upon what constitutes weight in the animal body. Only consider, I say,
what a loss the medium’s body sustains each time a spirit’s whole body
and limbs are materialised. How they can go through this ordeal
frequently, and live for a single year, is to me a marvel. I have two
portraits of a most celebrated private medium for full materialisations
—one taken at the commencement of her noble and virtuous career as a
medium, and, most happily for her, a short one, and, thank God, she is
still among us; but the difference between the well-fleshed features in the
one portrait and the extreme thinness of the other is remarkable.
Ancient records represent physical mediumship as a very exhausting
process indeed: the Patriarch Jacob was lamed for life with only one bout,
in the vain attempt to control his control; and St. Paul is represented by
tradition as thoroughly crippled by his long mediumship, his control
and that of Jacob being represented by all the churches as the same
great and powerful spirit. In order to carry out the only generally
convincing process of materialisation, all that a spirit needs is to
materialise his face, and perhaps his hands, or even his arms and
shoulders. What we want, in order to convince people of spirit identity
without possible fraud, is a face right over the table that makes itself
plain to view, with intelligent looks and moving features, speaking with
I tongue and Bps, as we ourselves have seen and Beard; right over the
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 8, 1878.
table, be it understood, and floating up to the ceiling, if it likes; but
still always well over the table, well in front of the sitters, and wear
materialised legs. If the spirit chooses, it can sometimes pass right
through the table, as we have seen it; and this adds much to the interest
of a seance, and to the gratitude of the sitter towards the kind and con¬
vincing spirit. And, certainly, if the complexion of the spirit showing
itself should be, for instance, as bronzed as any English sailor’s can be
in tropical climates, as we have seen it, while moving its lips, looking
you well in the face and talking—as we have seen and heard it—as
unlike the medium in complexion as anything can be possibly conceived,
that is a pleasing accessory, and that, too, we have seen. Marked
difierence of complexion would necessitate much after-washing in the
case of the substitution of a medium for a spirit; and marked difference
of complexion in the case of the seizure of a medium would be strong
evidence in one direction, unless, indeed, spirits should be as expeditious
in the art of washing a medium’s face clean as they are said to be in
that of returning their materialisation back to the medium’s body.
Very many spirit photographs—and that many are genuine I cannot
doubt—only display the upper part of the spirit’s body; showing, at the
same time, the good sense of operating spirits in sparing the medium’s
force, for in spirit photography spirits have to materialise sufficiently to
catch the sensitive plate, but not enough for us to see them.
Sparing the mediums is surely not a minor consideration. First, on
the score of humanity; for we cannot say that they do not suffer in
parting with their vitality to materialise even a part of a spirit: their
painful exclamations and struggles as heard in the cabinet denote it,
and common sense would tell us that they suffer, now we know the pro¬
cess and their loss of weight, though they may be in a trance and may
not remember it when awake; but still their bodies are in pain, never¬
theless, and their constitutions must suffer by the continuance. A man
may lose a limb under anaesthetics or mesmerism without feeling it;
but it would be folly to say that the body did not suffer harm. Exhaus¬
tion ensues, and so does exhaustion ensue of the physical mediumship.
So, then, it appears to be only scant mercy to allow all that is possible
to allay pain and loss to the mediums by taking as little out of them as
possible. So, then, the making spirit clothing, or even giving up force
to have “ common stuff ” brought in surreptitiously by the spirits,
hidden by dissolution, the repulsion of particles into the air, and then
the particles attracted together again: all this robs the force of the
medium. Why, then, should we hesitate to supply the spirits with
drapery, as the Comte de Bullet has sometimes done, or even with false
beards ? Why not, if by so doing we can spare the medium the mate-
realisation of chin, throat, flesh, and hair? All parties would then
understand each other, and under the rule of give and take, the sitters
would expect in return unmistakable living faces, eyes, nose, mouth,
and forehead, right over the table, with no room for materialised body
and legs. There is more reason to spare the medium in promiscuous
circles than in the case of the Comte de Bullet, because all phases of
mediumship are much more easily carried out when only sympathetic
and medial persons are present. And, alas! let us even yield them
their bottles of phosphoric oil; we should thus have at any rate this
advantage, we could keep the lamps well trimmed, and show up the
spirit faces without mistake. That is what we want, as I have said
before. Let the spirits only give us perspicuous, intelligent faces; let
their facial appearance be but as genuine as their audible voices, and we
ought to be willing to sacrifice a good deal on our side for so much
on theirs; and be glad to do all we can to save the spirits trouble and
the mediums pain and possible shame.
I am one of those who lay by far the smaller portion of the blame of
deception upon the medium, when deceptions may accrue. For, as
we are told truly in Rifts in the Veil, “ The spirit’s method of acquiring
influence over a body, not its own, is a mesmeric one, and founded upon
the exercise of will power.’’ A medium in a trance is no more answer-
able for his actions than he or any other man is answerable for his
dreams. And I believe that, as a rule, whether the medium comes out of a
cabinet or the spirit, at a form circle, all is the work of the
spirits, who use the mediums at their will at all times, more or less, but
especially during their trance, but who may be willing to spare them
also when they have the opportunity. The word control speaks for
itself. And as regards the early published history of almost all the
most prominent physical mediums, it is well known that they have been
brought under control in early youth by the persistent obsession of
spirits when they were totally unable to combat this mesmeric will
power of beings in every way stronger than themselves. Spirits are
truly lords over their mesmeric sensitives, when once they have them
under their power; and it is now but as it was of old, “ If the prophet
be deceived when he has spoken, I, the Lord, have deceived that
prophet.’’ * And whether the medium or prophet speaks or acts under
deception, it is the same thing. So, then if as we believe, according to
the history of the last few years, that mediums, to their unspeakable
detriment, have frequently been brought out of cabinets instead of spirits,
we should give in future the chief blame where blame is chiefly due;
and it will be, moreover, our duty in some cases to repudiate stalking
ghosts altogether. This I never can believe, that a medium ever did
come out of a cabinet personating a ghost without, at any rate, the cog¬
nisance of his “ control.”
If any should suppose that the above has been written in a captious,
cynical, or frivolous spirit, let me beg them to restrain their judgment,
and to put to my account the tears I have shed. Personally I .have held
occasional audible communication with a very powerful spirit now for
eleven years—first at the Marshall’s—and during that time I have
received many kind messages and benefits at that spirit’s hands, but
never any deception; and later, I have, I cannot doubt, seen that
same spirit materialised. I know few friends whom I would
sooner trust. At my first seance that spirit gave me a
* Ezekiel xiy. 9.
promise, in answer to a request of my own, that has been
often faithfully fulfilled. I have taken the part of that spirit and of his
mediums in print in worse times than these, when unjustly accused in
former days before materiahsations set in, which has never been for¬
gotten ; and the last words spoken to me at my last seance with that
same spirit were “ God bless you, my dear old friend.” I reciprocated
that kindly wish, and I reciprocate it now. I cannot make any apology
for what I believe from my heart may have been a deception; but I can
and will give testimony of my own experience, and I can pray for the
souls of the departed. Since writing the above I have read Mr. St.
George Stock’s letter in The Spiritualist of Nov. 1st, wherein he says :
“How was Williams enabled to float up to the ceiling of his room, as I
have seen him do ? And what became of the lower part of his body
when he presented himself, as he was wont to do, over the middle of
the solid table?” Echo answers, “What?” And I may add, how
could Mr. Williams manage to pass through the table, as I have seen a
spirit pass, as well as many other persons, who have published their
experience at various times ? Mr. St. George Stock says, a few lines
further on : “A good many, I daresay, were, like myself, fully convinced
already that John King was Williams with the addition of a beard,
and Peter, Williams again, disguised only by a wriggle.” I have seen
Peter floating over the table and showing his face quite plainly when
Mr. Williams was seated at the table, and my experiences in London
have been but few and far between. I never could make out how John
King could be the three mediums through whom I have conversed with
him; for with each medium the identity of the spirit has appeared to
me perfect. Nor can I imagine how one of the mediums could have
been John King, Katie King the elder, and Henry VHL, and Mr.
Williams, John King, Peter, and “ the Irresistible ” rolled in one,
K.
Ernest Hackel, in a recent publication, deplores the simplicity of
certain German men of science who have fallen into Slade’s trap.
Immanuel Hermann von Fichte, in an article in Psychic Studies,
replies and points out the importance of the results arrived at, claiming
that Slade’s manifestations belong to the domain of physics, and are,
therefore, quite safe in the hands of such men as Zollner, Weber, and
Fechner.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
We do not insert paragraph advertisements in this journal. Are the public
incessantly doomed to be made the unwilling recipients of trade advertise¬
ments ? We shall have advertisements mixed up with church prayers
next. Sometimes people send money for the insertion of articles, letters,
or reports which please them, and their remittances and enclosures are
always returned to them.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens,
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances hj the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand),
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Nov. 8, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, ISs.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, E.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spirituai phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed ciairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should he established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s,; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ IL „ .
The Seer. „ III.
The Reformer. „ IY. „ .
The Thinker. Y. „ . .
Marie Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . . *
History and Philosophy of Evil . .
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Yictims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . .
Homing Lectures ....
t. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . .24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb Spikitualist Newspaper . , 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History ot Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A^ Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans.ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . ,10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Transiated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
Slanation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Wili, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. " . .12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Oonstantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... IS
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Othee
Obseevees in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Peess.
"As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of & priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
" At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.’’—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who areun-
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chaptee I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IY.—^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, P.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proof) of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chaptee VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chaptee IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumsbip of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—^Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opimons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections ta
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe —James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XvIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con-
cluaing Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F,
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnagelpald to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS,
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
preface.
Ihtroductlon.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences In Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—.
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R.Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
tlhQ Writing *
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mouid; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxle3r, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss ICislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monek were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman..
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sol., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, "W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumshipof
Cora L. V. Tappan-Rlchmond—The Apparition of Senglreef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta ’’—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—^Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady ot Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritual) sm.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthtdox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxori.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. B urke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oj.on.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Predicdon.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalnra
Phiiosqphy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzi;,) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voica of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massoy—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritual.sm
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 fot' Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at onee irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 8, 1878.
A NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATTJBE DEATH BY NATUBAL MEANS.
X ORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon winch all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most'practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
ENO’S FBUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, KEFKESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO-
BATING BEVEKAGB, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FBUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomachy Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FEUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will .eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FBUTT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
jT'NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“Since I have used ENO’S FBUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ENO’S- FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
l “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.” •
WHAT EVEBY TBAVELLING TBUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
N THE WOBLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PBEPABED FBOM SOUND BIPE
FBUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Eipe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.     
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its1 use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FBUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HE ABT, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FEUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
crless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
nut very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FBUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, bpth in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel jt a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please.—I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. 80,1877 10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. —'Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FEUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TBADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Pam—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, BUE DE
LA PAIN.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous. Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The WoVblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing ofthe past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Qaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Bussell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay ofthe Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one ofthe most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us ofthe wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good dead of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol. Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time." [N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that ha
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—^Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—^Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—^Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Tr insference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology ’
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
ExtasiS—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World:
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower' Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — SnaU Telegraph
Founded on It. ' -
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcratt—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State;—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor. the Proprietor .by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwbod’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lano, Londc c, E.C.
