BsctxsxsaED as a NEWsmss,
  ^ Mfy ggmtitaligro m $xmt jyttm 
No. 387.—(Vol. XYI.—No. 4.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 1880. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
JAMES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majestys Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quiality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booli to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H . P. BL AVAT SK Y.
PUBLISHED AT 108, G IR G A U M BACK R 0 A Df BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Ojjice Orders to “The Proprietors of 1 The Theosophist' ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS EOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of tho Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author tvho has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together
tho results of his own experioncos, at tho request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should bo treated; and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of tho secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to the progress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what yon like, but persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1880.
•ii
Just q.rrived from America. A NEW BOOK by
EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
Its Inhabitants, Nature, and Philosophy.
Price 6s. '6d., post free. Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. Gd. Trubner And Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES M A L T B Y,
ARMY TAILOR,
HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
Crown 8vo, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. ... His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gdzette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards,
• Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. G, E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE
LONDON
(At Home every day except Sunday),
"Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o'clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil ior home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
_ MR. W. E GLINT ON, ~
32, FOPSTONE ROAD. EARL’S COURT,
LONDON,' S.W.
Notice of removal to 31,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily';
and eight to ten, evenings of Monday* and Thursdays
TOrDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
J-T-L Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
‘ Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
MRS. WOODFORDE’S Seance for Dr.
Monk’s Fund will be held on Wednesday
evening, the 28th, at 8 o’clock.
4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-square.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
of the Fox Sisters, of New York City, U.S
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to io, either at house of party or at Mrs
Kane’s rooms, must be made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances will be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
etone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Price 6d.; post free, 7$d.; cloth.
Prize Essays,
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals op the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, w.O.
MIND AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Peuna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
eMs
<iW»
ixf %h$ ni th$ Sci^ttc^ aM £th:iD8 ui SjxitttoaUsm*
No. 387.—Vomjjvie sixteen; Number fouf\.
LONDON, FRIDAY, J AIST U AR Y 23rd, 1880.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869,
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRIS ON.
British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Yon Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Miss Florence Marryat.
Madame Isabel de Steiger.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of the
Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H.M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
.1. A. Campbell. Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs, Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal, Paris; 2, Liudenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, 267. Riviera di Chiajat
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Rue Florimont. Liege; Josefstaad,
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Beligio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application
rnHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of difterent planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street,London, W.O.
GOOD AND EVIL.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “LETTERS TO MISS
MARTINEAU.“
There is some soul of goodness in things evil,
Would men observingly distil it out.
—“ King Henry,” Henry V.
For nought so vile that on the earth doth live.
But to the earth some special good doth give:
Nor aught so good but strain’d from that fair use,
Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse.
—Romeo and Juliet, Act ii., Sc. 3.
In view of intention and purpose in nature we may
not regard with the utilitarian and Pope that
“ happiness is our being’s end and aim,” but that
pleasure and pain are as tests or inducements and
checks in respect to our conduct in life, and as the
conservative principle in all animal existence. This,
with the obvious law of the survival of the fittest,
maintains the health and well-being of the race with¬
out any regard to Mr. Darwin’s theories.
In the Contemporary Review for November there
is an interesting article by W. Stanley Jevons, headed
“ J. S. Mill’s Philosophy Tested,” in which I find as
follows :—“ It is impossible to see how Mr. Spencer,
any more than other people, can explain away
the existence of pain and evil. Nobody has done
this, perhaps nobody ever shall do it: certainly
systems of theology will not do it.” Pain is a
positive evil in itself no doubt, but a relative good, as
the philosopher and poet I have quoted well saw.
Take the familiar instance that “the burnt child
dreads fire; ” and in this simple instance there are
three of the most remarkable psychological facts. If a
man stumbles he rights himself before being conscious
of the fact, as by an automatic guardian soul inde¬
pendent of or beneath the conscious element, called
the neural state or sub-consciousness, or Dr. Carpenter’s
unconscious cerebration. The burnt child withdraws
its hand without conscious intention, to speak figura¬
tively, as though by the aid of some watchful
attendant spirit or guardian angel; and, but that the
burn caused pain, the hand might he completely
burnt away without the sufferer being at all aware
what was taking place. Then surely here we must
recognise “ a soul of goodness in things evil.” And
if the hand is pained by cold, the pleasure of the
warmth attracts the hand to the fire for relief.
Here we recognise the conservative character of both
pleasure and pain, and in this instance we recognise
two psychological illusions—first, that the fire is hot;
secondly, that the pain is in the hand. But so little
has perception been analysed that I doubt not but
that most of my readers will be surprised at the
statement. I have pointed out that it is the common
law with all the senses, in effect, to transfer the
mental state to its objective cause; and the know¬
ledge of the illusion does not prevent it. The sun
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1880.
still seems to shine, for all our knowledge to the
contrary; the tooth seems to ache, the sound to be
in the air, the feeling in the fingers, and so on.
These illusions are not imperfections, but essential to
the very existence of man and beast, and are the
actual sources of knowledge. In the instance of the
burnt child we perceive the value of the illusion, as
well as of the pain. For want of this analysis of
perception, reason and philosophy have ever gone
astray. Bacon recognised the necessity of the
analysis of perception, as “ first and before all ”—
the A B C, as it were—yet wrote the Novum
Organum without : attempting it, as pointed out
by Professor Fowler, of Oxford, in his recent admi¬
rable exposition of that work. But of course what I
have said is little more than hints on the most
fundamental and important matter of, psychological
science. Except for this great law of the transfer of
the sense to the object, I could not pen these lines,
or, indeed, exist at all. But it would require not an
essay, but a volume, to fully expound and illustrate
this matter in all its bearings, and in respect to the
use of t; pain and evil/’ and the value of the illusion
in respect to life, morality, our spiritual nature, and
our enjoyments. If any deep-thinking young man
would take to this matter he would acquire a high
and noble position in philosophy.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN AUSTRALIA.
The Harbinger of Light (Melbourne) of December
1st, 1879, which arrived by last mail, contains the
following report by Mr. Michael Landy, of Briagolong,
Gippsland :—
I will narrate the result of some sittings with Mrs.
Paton while on a visit for the benefit of her health
to this the new province of Victoria. The occur¬
rences took place during last October. Having
formed a circle by sitting and joining hands round a
table in a room in which the medium had no more
than looked in before the first sitting, the lights were
put out, and such singing as we were able to muster
introduced. I sat on the medium’s right hand, having
her hand in or on mine during the sitting. After
some time I could feel some spasmodic twitchings of
Mrs. Paton’s hands and arms. These continued for
a little time, and then a sound on the table. The
candie being lighted, a large stone was found 161bs.
in weight. The light being again put out, some
twitchings of the medium’s hands took place, and
branches of flowers freshly broken and having the
dew on them were found scattered on the table. The
table at different times kept up a tilting and dancing
motion, and went through a tune on its own account.
Without describing the sittings consecutively, I will
mention the principal phenomena, some of wiiich
occurred without any seance. At every sitting
flowers were introduced, generally with the dewr
plainly to be seen, and the sap oozing from the
broken stems. On one occasion a stone, dripping
wet, was brought on the table, the table being wetted
thereby: the stone was washed clean and smooth,
and bore the appearance of being brought from the
creek about a quarter of a mile off. On another
occasion, the night being wet, a stone was brought,
||| the upper side of which was quite wet; we had been
i)! then sitting from twenty to thirty minutes, and in
| (I five minutes after the stone was placed on the table
if; it was found to be quite dry; this was remarked
m by a gentleman present, no Spiritualist. Mrs.
Paton, my wife, and some young friends were
-m taking a walk on one occasion; a stone happened
]){ to be on the path; a young lady remarked, “Would it
I ({ not be strange if the spirits brought this stone?” They
]>| then took up the stone, examined it, found a mark on
| j it by which it could be identified, and threw it down
|)j again. On the following day, in broad daylight, in
| (| the presence of my wife, the stone fell on the middle
m of the floor. On another occasion, also, a stone fell in
m full daylight, in the middle of the floor. One even-
i)l ing, when several persons were present chatting in
\ | full lamp-light, a branch of lilac fell between my wife
)| and Mrs. Patpn. This I witnessed with my own eyes
( j even before it fell; we were not sitting in any circle,
/ i and not expecting any occurrence of the kind. At
fi other sittings, a box filled with earth and planted
)| with some flower slips "was introduced, the earth
} | adhering to the bottom where it had rested on the
) | ground, and leaving particles of earth on the table;
j the skull of a beast, including the horns, was also
' | brought, a sceptical gentleman being present. This
[ | must have been conveyed some distance, and certainly
II could not be accounted for by any theory of fraud,
u On almost every occasion we had sceptical persons at
n the sittings, who were perfectly satisfied as to the
|j genuineness of the manifestations.
I AN APPARITION SEEN BY THE SUPREME
j COUNCIL OF INDIA.
)j The Rev. Bourchier Wrey Savile has just issued a
) | second edition of his valuable and interesting book
(j on “ Apparitions,” published by Longmans and Co.,
(| and in it he gives fresh instances of the seeing of
11 spontaneous apparitions by persons not Spiritualists.
/1 In the preface he says :—
I am indebted to the kindness of George Sparkes,
( Esq., of Bromley, Kent, for the following very
/1 singular incident connected with that eminent states-
)\ man, Warren Hastings, who together with Lord
/1 Clive and the recently deceased Lord Lawrence have
(i done more than any other of our great men to found
j I and preserve to our descendants the finest empire in
)\ British India which the world has ever seen. Mr
} j Spe.rkes informs me that one evening, when his great-
I uncle, Joseph Cater, Esq., then secretary to Warren
% Hastings, was sitting with the Supreme Council Oi
II India, in the Council Chamber of Calcutta, Mr.
':! Shakespeare, one of the members, suddenly looked
i! up, exclaiming, “ Good God, there is my father! ”
\! The whole Council then saw a figure of an unknown
i| person glide through the chamber into another room
11 which had no outlet, and disappear. What particu¬
larly attracted the attention of the Council was the
‘ | fact that the figure appeared with a hat of unusual
' I shape, commonly known in our day by the name
of “chimney-pot.” The Governor-General was so
struck with the occurrence that he ordered a minute
to be made of the matter, and placed in the record-
>\ chest; and where it may possibly still remain. In
Jan. 23, 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST. 39
course of time a ship from England arrived, bringing
the news of the death of Mr. Shakespeare’s father ;
and likewise a cargo of “ chimney-pot hats,” the first
ever brought to India.*
He also says:—
In preparing a second edition of these “Apparitions,
a Narrative of Facts/’ I gladly take the opportunity
of thanking those numerous friends and strangers
who have favoured me with communications in con¬
firmation of the object which I have had in view by
the publication of such a work—viz., to show that
there is sufficient evidence for believing in the ap¬
pearance, about the time of death, or shortly after, of
deceased persons to those living on the earth.
One of tbe most remarkable instances of such an
appearance, recorded in the following pages, will be
found in the case of Captain German Wheatcroft,
killed at the siege of Lucknow, on Saturday afternoon,
Nov. 14ith, 1857, who appeared to Professor Nenner,
his wife and a friend, at 9 p.m. of the same evening
in London; and likewise to his own wife, then living
with her mother at Cambridge, during the same
night. A brother-clergyman of the Church of Eng¬
land writes to inform me that his wife was a very
intimate friend of the Wheatcroft family; and that
she and G. W. had been playmates from their youth.
Disappointed of seeing him before he sailed for India,
G. W. sent her a message on leaving England to say
“ he should contrive to see her in some way.” The
remainder shall be stated in my informant’s own
words.
“ On the morning of the 15th of Nov., 1857, my
wife said to me on waking, ‘ My old friend German
Wheatcroft is dead. About twelve or one o’clock in
the night, I being wide awake, he came and stood
there,’ pointing to a place about four feet from the
bed, ‘ and, looking at me with a pleasant but some¬
what sad smile, said, “ Good-bye ! ” ’ There was
nothing distressful in the face or figure of the spectre ;
and my wife does not recollect that her attention
was directed to the dress or any other feature than
the face, which appeared exactly as she had seen it
often before. She noticed a paleness on the face;
and though somewhat startled, she was not alarmed,
nor did the apparition leave any unpleasing im¬
pression on her mind, save that of sorrow for what
she fully believed to be the certainty of her friend’s
death.”
Surely this threefold appearance of an officer who
had been slain in India, very shortly after the
moment of his death, to three different parties in
England (the difference between London and Luck¬
now is about eight hours), in three different localities,
neither of whom had any communication with each
other, and one of the parties being an entire stranger
to the other two, must be considered as placing the
possibility of apparition phenomena beyond all
reasonable doubt; and it is not saying too much,
when we term those who refuse to believe such a
* The change from hoods to “hats,” as a head-covering for men in the open
air, first occurred towards the close of the fifteenth century. An existing
picture of Louis de Gonzagues, Duke of Nivernois, painted in 1587, represents
him as wearing a head-covering not unlike what is called a stiff “ billy-cock ”
hat of the present day ; and this shape was seen in England as late as the
middle of the seventeenth century, when the broad flapping hat with a feather
of the Stuart period came into use. This was retained until early in the
eighteenth century, when it gave way to the three-cornered hat which was worn
by the head and under master of W estminster School when the author went
there in 1828; and is still retained by state coachmen in the present day. The
“ chimney-pot ” hat appears to have been introduced about the year 1780.
\h .
m cumulative amount of evidence as is here adduced,
|i the victims of what has been justly termed “the
11 superstition of incredulity.”
| A LADY KILLED BY THE FOKCE OF IMAGINATION,
(j (From the “New YorTt News.”)
On Tuesday last Dr. Fisher, at the New York
) j Hospital, was called upon to render his professional
)| services in what has proven to be a most remarkable
v case. At noon on the day named, a lady called at
i the hospital and avowed that she had swallowed a full
(| set of teeth. She requested the physician to examine
)j her for traces of them, and said she was Mrs. Cora S.
(j Nourse, aged 47, an artist, who contributed sketches
(I and articles to The Floral Cabinet. She resided at
>| No. 36, West Ninth-street, with her two daughters,
! and on Tuesday last visited some relatives at Irving-
)| ton, on the Hudson.
When making up her toilet on Tuesday morning,
) I; she missed her teeth, and being unable to find them
u about her room, she came to the conclusion that
>j- during her sleep she had swallowed them, as she
j! remembered distinctly their presence in her mouth
when retiring. A tickling sensation in her throat
( | seemed to corroborate this belief. Dressing in haste
>| she hurried off to a resident physician, who examined
(| her for traces of the lost molars, but he failed to find
H them. He advised her to search for them again,
(j assuring her that if she felt no distress in her stomach,
) I it was not possible that they were located as she sup-
(| posed.
j | She inquired as to the result in case her fears proved
jj true, and was informed that if she had swallowed them
m the result would certainly prove fatal. Alarmed at
j this, the unfortunate lady hastened to her apartment,
n but being unable to find her teeth, immediately
(j boarded a train for this city, and sought for relief at
Vi the New York Hospital. She was in a considerable
<j state of trepidation, and appeared to suffer great
>| mental anxiety.. After a thorough examination Dr.
i|; Fisher declared that she could not possibly have
| swallowed the teeth, and suggested to her the possi-
I: bility of having laid them somewhere out of the way.
)| She then became convinced that such must have been
\i; the case, and started for her home in Ninth-street,
‘j She had scarcely left the hospital when she suddenly
| dropped in the street. Some gentlemen sprang to
)| her assistance, and carried her back to the hospital
[j insensible. Dr. Fisher was proceeding to examine
•I her, when she turned on her side and expired. A
11 female attendant was called to undress the poor lady,
in order that an investigation as to the cause of her
J death might be made. As the attendant was remov-
n ing the dead lady’s clothing, the missing teeth were
1 discovered lodged in her undergarments. A post-
'] mortem examination revealed the curious fact that
j her death had resulted from no other cause than a
| complete exhaustion of her mental faculties, brought
| about by the force of imagination.
I The last number of Psychic Studies (Leipzig), the most intel¬
lectual Spiritualist publication on the Continent, contains some
i extraordinarily high eulogiums of The Spiritualist, for the
| “ disinterested manner ” in which for ten years it has advocated
Spiritualism.
40
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1880.
EMANCIPATION FROM THE FLESH.
Dr. Wyld’s letter, in connection with the inte¬
resting question of the psychological influence of
anaesthetics, is receiving the attention among Spirit¬
ualists that it deserves. As you say, if the spirit of
man can be separated from the body by the judicious
use of anaesthetics, a new and easy branch of experi¬
mental psychical investigation has been opened up.
And, truly, Dr. Wyld has put it plainly enough when
he says: “ Whether by drowning, asphyxiating gases,
mesmeric asphyxia, internal breathing, on the self-
imposed asphyxia of the Hindu ascetics, or the en-
trancements of the ecstatic saints, the modus operandi
is analogous and the result identical, namely, the
temporary death of the body, and thus the temporary
freedom of the soul.’'
This is plain speaking, but I believe it to be, to all
intents and purposes, a true position, a temporary
actual absence of vitality in the body, with a quick¬
ening of the spirit.
That I have expressed analogous opinions in your
pages will be shown by your kindly permitting me
to quote from a communication of mine in The
Spiritualist of July 14th, 1876. In that letter I say:
“Let us, for the sake of argument, assume the
pre-existence of the soul, that in the case of each one
of us, for instance, the same soul, formerly disin-
carnate, is still in existence, but is now trammelled
by a body of flesh ; then it must follow that any¬
thing which reduces the vitality of the flesh and
checks its deadening and predominating effect and
influence over the soul would, logically, leave the
soul nearer to its previous state, that is, more free to
act and make use of its spiritual functions, more
fitted to enjoy the spiritual power of sight and
hearing, &c., in its own spiritual way—in the way it
formerly enjoyed them in its pre-existent state,
before being tied to the flesh.
“ If, then, we bear in mind that anything which
dulls the bodily energy may, and probably will,
quicken and give scope to the spiritual energy,
notably sleep, disease, or the use of certain drugs,
which latter are often taken to induce such a state—
haschish, for instance, prepared from hemp by the
Zulus and others, and opium by the Chinese—we
must also see that the reason why visions are so
common just before death is because the spirit is
nearing a state similar to or identical with its pre¬
existent state. The carnal state is now on the ebb,
and the spiritual on the flow; the flesh is no longer
subduing the spirit, the real self, that which is our
true normal status; while the course of haschish and
opium, so often producing visions that are disagree¬
able, not to say monstrous, may well be, because the
low moral state which induces this indulgence, and
which state is, for the most part, vastly increased by
the indulgence in such narcotics, brings with it real
ghostly experiences corresponding with the spiritual
state of the victim to the degraded habit. The above
remark is probably equally applicable to some of the
effects of delirium tremens, &c.”
By the above it will be seen that, though I had
not comprehended the full light of actual temporary
death assumed by Dr. Wyld, yet that I was not very
far off it, and that we are greatly indebted to Dr.
j Wyld for his discrimination, and the results of his
| careful experience.
i Dr. Wyld points out this great difference between
j a man during sleep and a man in a trance or vision
II of the spirit. He says : “ No one in mere sleep can
I submit to painful operations with a smile of joy
|| upon his face.” Personally I was never subject to an
II anaesthetic but once. Nitrous oxide was the agent in
11 the case of a rather formidable array of dental opera-
) | tions. I expected to have bad to take the gas two or
\j three times, but it was all over at one sitting, which
\ | makes me think that I must have been absent rather
(I long. Many visions have been vouchsafed me, but I
) I know of none that gave me the exquisite delight of
j j that anaesthetic, and never did I so regret the
) I awakening as on that occasion; and I feel now,
y\ after Dr. Wyld’s powerful elucidation, the fruit of
) much experience on his part as a mesmeriser, that I
si was then really temporarily, to all intents and pur-
) I poses, dead in the body but alive in the spirit.
\ j So I think I have been shown, now, not only that
) I I can and shall live without the body—a fact I never
11 doubted—but also that I can and may, and probably
H shall, finally live in happiness. Yet I would not
) I have any suppose that I take to myself any honours,
<1 or assume the least superiority over the least worthy
> of God’s creatures on account of this my pleasing
(| experience of the body’s death, so to speak, for a short
| j time, or on any other account. It was simply what
(| almost all mediums feel when in a state of catalepsy;
) I they, too, generally feel regret at awaking. It was
(j simply getting rid for a short time of the pains and
y|: penalties of earth life : for much of our purgatory is,
u I think, undergone here—a throwing off, for a very
> I short season, the clog of the body. And surely few
(j have more reason to appreciate this than one who,
) | like myself, has been for many years a bodily
j sufferer.
/1 No. This was the experience of getting rid of a
(| heavy millstone, for a few minutes, that one hopes at
) | least to throw off for a longer time when we die; an
(| emancipation which we trust may be participated in
/ j not only by men, but by suffering animals after
u death, and that the same pleasant relief may be felt
|| by them also, after death, as I felt when, so to speak,
(j I died.
The poor omnibus horse, for example, with his
M average life of two years—poor, suffering, uncom-
)! plaining beast, with his pull-up, whip, and go-on so
I constantly repeated for man’s benefit. Poor legs!
) | poor mouth ! poor back ! poor shoulders ! poor heart!
|| “Let the galled jade wince, our withers are un-
(I wrung.” Are they ? Then there are the caged birds
) | which will live in our climate at liberty out of doors.
|| After a severe accident, as I lay in bed reflecting
| on my sins, that which weighed most on my mind
| was having, in earlier days, kept wild birds in cages.
)| Then there are the scavenger dogs of Eastern
\ | countries, that all men kick and no man feeds, useful
II as they are. Travellers tell us how cruelly they are
(j treated, because, forsooth, they are “ uncleanand
/1 this by specimens of humanity who never wash
( themselves, but still are “clean” by their religion.
Happily I believe in spiritual evolution, which affects
(| beasts as well as men; and spiritual science may one
/1 day reveal the cause of so much misery, this groan-
41
Jan. 23. 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST.
ing of all creation on this planet, as well as what we
already know so well—its effects.
I have spoken of the immediate result of an
emancipation from the flesh. • What the soul, with¬
out the body, may have to undergo afterwards,
in its changed state, is another thing altogether; for,
during my short emancipation through an anaesthetic,
it is hardly necessary to add that there was hardly
time for any new soul troubles to begin. But as
regards the passions, apart from flesh, nerve, blood,
and bone pain, there is no reason to suppose that
they (the passions) cease to trouble in the fluidic life
any more than they do here, so long, at least, as the
soul exists within the atmosphere and precincts of
this earth. We must all know that the religion of
the highest civilisation of Europe gives no idea of
any absence of the passions in its sacred writings
concerning even the highest place or spirit there
described.
From the beginning to the end—or at any
rate from Exodus to the Revelations—wrath, and its
climax fury, repentance, jealousy, and revenge are
the common terms which there represent the feelings
and dealings of the highest Spirit with the large
majority of men. But as good Bishop Burnet, in his
Exposition of the Thirty-nine Articles, written in
the time of William III., and still given for study
to the young theologian and student for orders,
says:—
“ Passion is an agitation that supposes a succession
of thoughts, together with a trouble for what is
past, and a fear of missing what is aimed at. It
arises out of a heat of mind, and produces a
vehemence of action. Now, all these are such mani¬
fest imperfections, that it does plainly appear they
cannot consist with infinite perfection.”
Still, if these passions be contrary to the attributes
of the Most High God, which they evidently are, they
are in conformity with the attributes of all other
spirits, in or out of the flesh, with whom we have
ever been put in communion or read of. Not only
Scripture, but mediumship, shows that we must
all expect to meet with the passions pretty
sharply agitating every single spirit in the next
life, as long at least (as I said) as we remain
within the influence and the precincts of this planet.
Even the idea of God as a Father does not exempt
Him from the imputation of being subject to the
passions. The idea of the Most High God as a
Father was taught by very early races. The Aryans
called Him Diauspiter, or Sky Father ; the Greeks,
Zeuspater; and the Latins, Jupiter; but how they
degraded Him ! So it seems to confer great credit
on the heads and hearts of the former wise ones of
Europe—I say nothing of the present day—with all
the data that they had to go upon looking contrari¬
wise, to have worked out by themselves the great
problem that the Greatest of Spirits must be passion¬
less. This must have come, surely, from the depths
of their inward consciousness ; or, who knows ? name
it not in Gath! from Buddhism ? Certainly not
from the Jewish or Christian Scriptures.
It was, I say, a wondrous thing, while this small
world and its surroundings, so full of sin and shame,
both above and below, was regarded as the centre of
the universe, and that all things were made for it,
Ijj the sun and stars appearing through holes in a
|{| firmament, something beaten out like sheet iron to
t|j let light through—it was, I repeat, wondrous, with
jlj such views, and with the news of the wrath of God
|)l frowning on a stricken world, that men should even
! | have imagined and guessed at a God who was above
m and devoid of the passions. But now we have
||j been vouchsafed the knowledge of the grandest,
i | infinitely and incomparably the grandest and most
\U blessed truth that ever was revealed to expectant,
I Vi trembling, suffering humanity—that this world
ijj is but as a grain of sand in the immensity, the
m boundlessness of the Universe, the specific truth
|jj revealed to the God-gifted ecclesiastic Copernicus,
j;j revealed by him and accepted as true by the
jji wise Pope Leo X., A.D. 1533, but quenched and
Ijj overlooked, through the fightings between Catholics
jjl and Protestants; and yet again brought forward by
|j| Galileo, A.D. 1623, but repudiated by the “infallible”
| j i Pope Urban VIII.;—happily, I say, since this wonder-
j j ful revelation, we may look forward to the time when
|jj we may rise above the hatreds, wraths, jealousies,
Ijj injustice, and dishonesty which we now know infest
jjl and infect fluidic life as well as earth life within the
| j | precincts of this our poor little agitated globe. And
||j when we have each borne the full burden of our sins
ijj and fully paid our whole debt (since it is plain we
|j| must have a debt, the whole extent of which we
||| cannot know), we may look forward to the time of
!j the assuagement of passions, and to being lifted
j beyond and above them, just in proportion as we
j leave this earth and its precincts as men and spirits ;
and calmly hope that in other spheres, though not
in earth spheres, there may be abodes afar off in
infinite space where infinite progress may be assured
I j to us; and that, as we cast off our imperfections,
there will be not only space but work perhaps for us
all, as there is surely room for us all in the infinity
of space—work in such high and noble service as the
nj All-seeing may appoint, even for the perfect as He is
I j j perfect. M. A. (Cantab.)
jj A STRANGE PHENOMENON.
Mr. A. Liberman, of New Orleans, La., writes:
j| As the champion of true mediumship, I address you
j| this communication. Sister S. Crane, a lady of talent
jj and energy, residing here, has power for healing the
j j sick, that cannot be surpassed. One evening I went
j j to consult her about my wife's sickness—inflammatory
jj rheumatism. All at once, and for the first time, she
jj felt a strange influence, rose from her chair, and
jj stretching out her hands above her head, she brought
jj them down covered with an oily substance glistening
jj like polished silver, and from which emanated an
(j aroma. She came that same evening to cure my
jj wife. After having used her mesmeric power on
j j her, she raised her hands into the empty space and
jj brought them down full of the mysterious oil. We
j j all examined it, and three of our senses were con-
jj vinced of the existence of an oily substance produced
jj in the atmospheric elements. In exhibiting it to
jj my wife, one drop of the oil fell on her hand; in
jj rubbing it on her limbs, she felt a cooliug sensation,
j j I invited two of my intimate friends to be present
jj at the medium’s next visit, and the same phe-
42 THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 23. L880.
nomenon was produced. She wiped her hands with j \
a towel, then raised them in the atmosphere and !/
brought them down full of the oil. Every one in j(
the room examined it, six in number, and were con- j)
vinced of its reality. One man present remarked K
that the room was full of its aroma. The truth of [)
this wonderful phenomenon can be testified and j
sworn to before any magistrate by four honest, trust- j)
worthy witnesses, besides the medium, her husband | \
and son. I should like to hear an explanation, if j)
such a substance can be thus produced without the j j
aid of spirit power. j ('
On the 25th of November I went to the medium j>
with the intention to ask her consent to publish a |(
statement of the case. She shrinks from publicity. j|
Before I was half through with my request she \)
(being entirely ignorant of the cause of my visit) }
said, “Give me your hand,”-and raising the other i)
hand in the air, in less than one minute she brought IS
it down full of that same oil. She repeated the u
experiment with the same result.—Religio-Philo- j >
sophical Journal. K
SPIRIT IDENTITY. j j
Last Monday night, at a meeting at 38, Great Kj
Russell-street, London, Mrs. J. W. Fletcher delivered jlj
a lecture bearing chiefly upon the subject of “ Spirit \(\
Identity.” She said that the late Abraham Lincoln, j) i
President of the United States, was a devoted Spirit- j\j
ualist, and that some time after his death his widow j§!
disguised herself and travelled to Boston to see if [Jj
some of the mediums there could give evidence j/j
relating to the spirit world. Mrs. Lincoln called m
upon Mr. Fletcher, who did not know her, but told m
her that he saw President Lincoln by vision, and m
gave her the name of her son Willie. Before leaving m
she told Mrs. Fletcher who she was, and said that nj
she was satisfied with the evidence. She was so |(l
disguised that even without her thick veil she was m
not likely to be recognised. Next, Mrs. Lincoln, [)!
similarly disguised, went to Mr. Mumler, the spirit j (j
photographer. He did not know her, but a likeness !|
of Abraham Lincoln came out with her own, both m
upon the same negative plate.
Signor Rondi, after stating that Mrs. Fletcher’s hj
lecture displayed considerable ability, said:—In the ||
year 1874, while in Rome, Signor Sonzonio, the n
editor of La Capitale, was stabbed in the head in his In
office, and died in consequence. He was buried ]>|
wrapped in a white sheet, and with a crown of k j
laurels on his head. A few days afterwards, while jjj
holding a stance in the house of Signor T , six j (j
persons, including myself, were sitting round the j>j
table, with the moon shining and throwing sufficient j|
light into the room to enable us to see each other I j |
quite well. A figure, wrapped in a white sheet, j(|
crowned with laurels, and with its face stained with j (|
blood, entered the room by one of the two doors; m
step by step it slowly walked towards the circle and |)|
stood for a few seconds under the moonlight coming m
in through the window; then it gradually retired |)|
towards another room, which it entered. Imme- i(|
diately some of the sitters followed the figure into |)|
the room, but only a dark cloud was perceived, j(j
which hovered for a few moments. The apparition *>i
was recognised by every one of us present to be
Signor Sonzonio. While Mrs. Hardy was in London
I had an opportunity of attending several of her
seances. One evening, in the house of Mr. S. C.
Hall, with eighteen persons present, we sat round a
table with a hole in the centre. After a quarter of
an hour or so, a white well-formed hand came out
from the hole. Mr. Hall asked if the hand belonged
to one or other of his relatives ; the hand gently gave
a tap, indicating “ No.” Nine persons, one after the
other, received the same answer. On my asking if
it belonged to one of my relatives, the hand answered
“ Yes ” by three taps. “ Is it the hand of my mother ?”
I asked. Three taps followed. “ Can I touch you V-
Three more taps were given. I got up and took the
beautiful hand in mine. I examined it well, and I
fully recognised it to be the hand of my ever dear
departed mother.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE PROVINCES.
Glasgow.—During several years many efforts
have been made to bring Spiritualism prominently
before the public of Glasgow, and from time to time
lectures have been delivered in that city by Mrs.
Emma Hardinge-Britten, Mrs. C. L. V. Tappan,
Dr. Sexton, Dr. Monck, Messrs. Burns, Morse,
Wallis, Walker, and others; but in spite of these
efforts and the merit of most of the lectures de¬
livered, hard-headed, kirk-going Glasgow remains
sceptical up to the present. The world-renowned
medium, David Duguid, has held weekly seances for
years; Mrs. Mellon (Miss Fairlamb) has also visited
the city several times ; but yet Spiritualism has not
succeeded in very materially affecting the dense
mental atmosphere of the second city in the king¬
dom. The last twelve months, however, have seen a
revival of the flagging energies of the local believers—
first mainly through the efforts of Mr. J. Robertson,
supported by Mr. J. Bowman, who generously sup¬
plied the sinews of war, and more recently by the
added assistance of that energetic worker, Mr. J.
Coates. Since the latter became secretary the
number of members on the books has been doubled,
and, a special effort having been made, the Trades
Hall, capable of holding eight hundred people, was
engaged for four months for Sunday services.
Special engagements were entered into with Messrs.
Walker and Wallis. Mr. Morse, also, in fulfil¬
ment of his contract with the society, has spoken
to large audiences in this commodious building.
Mr. Coates occupies the platform efficiently and
acceptably without fee when none of the travel¬
ling mediums can be obtained. These services have
now run for three months with gratifying results in
the shape of increasing and appreciative audiences,
and although the expense is too great to admit of an
extension of time, yet it is determined to recoup the
exchequer during the summer months, and, if pos¬
sible, repeat the effort for six months as next winter
comes on. In addition to the above special efforts,
the society has a room at 164, Trongate, which,
though small, answers the purpose for ordinary meet¬
ings. Private circles are held in many families,
mediums are developing in most of them, and some of
them will be, doubtless, heard in public ere long.
Jan. 23, 1880.
Sunday morning meetings are held for the purpose
of giving rising mediums an opportunity for the
exercise of their speaking and other gifts, and many
interesting and instructive lessons are learnt in the
developing circles. A large amount of literature is
circulated gratuitously, and the society has in forma¬
tion a first-class library of at present several hundred
volumes.
Mr. Coates has worked hard to organise the society
upon a firm basis, and he assists very much in the
general work. During the New Year holidays he has
been busy giving public entertainments, consisting of
mesmeric phenomena and phrenological delineations
to crowded audiences. In three weeks he has given
more than forty of these exhibitions, and all who see
him admit that he is a thorough master of the
science. These entertainments have been held at
the Trades Hall, and many of them were of a high-
class nature, presenting some of the finer experi¬
ments in phreno-mesmerism. As a proof of their
popularity, it is enough to say that the hall was not
large enough to hold the crowds who came to see.
Mesmerism is especially interesting and instructive
to the student of Spiritualism, and Mr. Coates is
eminently successful in producing most startling
results. I am sure the Spiritualists and general
public would be able to learn much from him both
as a practical phrenologist and experimental mes¬
merist.
Morecambe.—I was recently surprised to find
there were Spiritualists in this sea-side resort, and
upon paying them a visit found that, though not
numerous, they were a most enthusiastic circle. I
witnessed there too, for the first time, the use of the
divining rod, and by means of it received communi¬
cations from personal friends, their names and other
matters connected with them being correctly spelled
out. Considerable interest in Spiritualism is mani¬
fested in the place, and several sitters are presenting
incipient medial gifts, but great care and caution
will have to be employed to protect them from
injurious influences. Excelsior.
M.JULES FAVRE.
M. Jules Favre, brother of the eminent
Spiritualist, Leon Favre, has passed to the higher
life. In the stormier days of French politics, when
the Legitimists had withdrawn from the struggle,
and the Orleanists shunned contention, Jules Favre
was one of the very few who had the courage to take
up a most dangerous position for the sake of that
which he believed to be true, and he strenuously
opposed the then all-powerful Imperial Government.
In 1858 he was returned to the Corps Legislatif, and
proved himself to be one of the best men in the
anti-imperialist band, Les Cinq, afterwards reinforced
by M. Theirs and M. Gambetta, and during the
latter years of the Empire his abilities raised him to
a position in the great French nation of high distinc¬
tion. His forensic oratory was of the most brilliant
character. M. Leon Favre, a valued contributor to
these pages, has always kept silence as to the position
of his brother in relation to Spiritualism, but if he
now breaks that silence the information will be read
with interest. i
43
HOW BEST TO BECOME A THEOSOPHIST.
BY GEORGE WYLD, M.D.
\ i
< | (Concluded.)
We could not conceive a grander tableau of that
)j soul which, aspiring to be a Son, and thus one with
<| God, infallibly encounters the demons of the middle
)! passage, but triumphing over these, the world, the
\ i flesh, and the devil, from henceforth lives with the
) i angelic ministrations.
Thus we find—From that time Jesus (having
): left the wilderness and entered on His ministry)
(| began to preach and to say “ Repent, for the King-
) I clom of Heaven is at hand,” and “ taking His disciples
(i up into a mountain apart,” He propounded unto them
/! the entire rule of His adeptship as follows.*
Whosoever would be My disciple must crucify
! those affections and lusts which war against the soul,
(| and must take up his cross daily and follow Me (The
)! Logos) ; and no one who loveth father or mother or
(I brother or sisters or houses or lands more than Me
) I (Divine wisdom) can be My disciple.
(| And he who would (selfishly) save his life shall
> | lose it, but he who would lose his life (for righteous-
l\ ness) shall find it; for to be dead in the flesh is to be
) I alive in the spirit, and what would it profit a man to
(! gain the whole world and lose his own soul, or what
) | f shall a man give in exchange for his soul ?
And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off and
I cast it from thee, for it is better to enter into life
| maimed, rather than with two hands to be cast into
hell fire. And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it
out and cast it from thee, for it is better to enter into
| life with one eye, rather than with two eyes to be
| cast into hell fire. And lay not up for yourselves
Ij (redundant) treasures upon earth, where moth and
rust do corrupt, and where thieves break through
! and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in
I heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt,
| nor thieves break through and steal; for where your
I treasure is, there will your heart be also. And take
i no (inordinate) thought as to what ye shall eat, or
| W'hat ye shall drink, or wherewithal ye shall be
| clothed, for your Father knoweth that ye have need
| of these things. But consider the lilies how they
| grow; they toil not, neither do they spin, and yet I
| say unto you that Solomon in all his glory was not
| arrayed like one of these. And behold the fowls of
| the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap nor
| gather into barns; yet your Heavenly Father feedeth
! them.
Whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever
i ye do, do all (with sacrifice) to the glory of God ;
| and whosoever would be great among you, let him be
I your minister, and who would be chief among you,
| let him be your servant. And choose not the upper-
| most rooms at feasts, nor the chief seats at the syna-
11 gogue, nor greetings in the market-place, nor to be
I called Master, for One is your Master, even Christ.
But seek ye first the kingdom of God and His
| righteousness, and all things else shall be added
! unto you.
And, behold, the kingdom of heaven is within you,
i the true light that lighteth every soul that cometh
| * The rule is taken almost entirely from the Sermon on the Mount, but the
sentences are sometimes transposed, and sometimes cumulated directly or in-
' directly from the teachings oi Jesus.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1880.
into the ■world. But except ye be born again ye j
cannot enter into the kingdom of God. And no
man can serve two masters, therefore resist the devil,
and he will flee from you, and draw near unto God, and
He will draw near unto you; for if your eye be
single your whole body shall be full of light.
But except ye become as little children, whose
angels do always behold the face of the Father, ye
cannot enter into the kingdom, of heaven.
And whosoever liveth the life shall know of the
doctrine.
Then to him who overcometh will I give to eat of
the hidden manna, and will give him a white stone, and
in the stone a new name written, which no man
knoweth save he that receiveth it; a name unlawful
and impossible (for the human larynx) to utter; but
thou shalt behold the King in His beauty, and the
Lord shall be thy light.
Then shall rough places become plain, and crooked
places shall become straight, and ye shall tread on
serpents, and heal the diseased, and open the eyes of
the blind, and cleanse the lepers, and stop the mouths
of lions, and quench the violence of fire, and cast out
devils, and raise the dead, and be yourselves raised
from the dead.
Nevertheless, rejoice not that the spirits are sub¬
ject unto you, but rather rejoice that your names are
written in heaven.
But let him who standeth take heed lest he fall;
and watch and pray lest ye enter into temptation,
for the Son of Man cometh at an hour when ye
think not. Ask, and ye shall receive; seek, and ye
shall find ; knock, and it shall be opened unto you :
yet strive ye to enter into the strait gate, for strait is
the gate, and narrow is the way that leadeth unto
life, and few there be that find it.
But see that your light shine before men, that they,
seeing your good works, may glorify your Father
which is in heaven.
Therefore, let love be without dissimulation;
abhor that which is evil, and cleave to that which is
good. Let brotherly love continue, in honour pre¬
ferring one another.
Resent not injuries, and give no place unto wrath ;
but love your enemies, and bless them which curse
you, and pray for them which despitefully use you \(
and persecute you; for freely ye have received, there- |)
fore freely give. r . K
Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with I)
g0°d. , , i’/ If
Finally, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all j)
thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy j
mind, and with all thy strength, and thy neighbour as |)
thyself; for this is the whole of the law and the jj
prophets, and none other commandment is greater ]/
than these.
Then blessed are the humble, for theirs is the 1
kingdom of heaven.
And blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit
the earth.
And blessed are they that do hunger and thirst
after righteousness, for they shall be filled.
And blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain
mercy.
And blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be
called the children of God.
And blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall
see God.
Thus, with a power beyond all merely human
I >j words, for “ never man spake as this Man,” are revealed
j (j to us the rules of Christian adeptship ; that is, in one
)| word. So to empty our souls of self that the Father,
(j becoming manifest in His Sons, illuminates and;
|;| regenerates the world.
In the East, adeptship is secret and mysterious, and
|)| hidden from all except a select few, who have passed
|\| through an ordeal so severe and dangerous that
j)j many, it is said, perish in body or in soul on making
Ijl the attempt, and into which select few, so far as we
}| know, no woman has ever been admitted.
But the Christian adept not only invites but im-
plores all to enter into the order.
| j! The Oriental adept obtains magical or soul power
) over matter, which he uses for his own ends—and over
|j inferior spirits. But the Christian adept has no deal-
ings with low or weak spirits, except to convert them
[|| or to cast them out; but his life is spent in openly
< transmuting his spiritual powers into good works for
) the good of mankind.
But you will ask—Have any men or women, by
following these rules, and by living the life, ever
reached to that spiritual power over ordinary law
which we believe is obtained by Oriental magic ?
To this question I reply emphatically—Yes.
The founder of the system not only possessed
powers far beyond any ever manifested by any
magician, but he conferred those powers on His
disciples by breathing on them and saying “ Receive
ye the Holy Spirit.”
These disciples went out and healed all manner of
diseases, and cast out devils, and spake with tongues,
and foretold events, as He had done. And like
powers have from time to time been manifested in
the lives of Christian saints who, forsaking self, have
found God.
St. Ignatius Loyola, St. Theresa, Savonarola, and
others in the middle ages wrought miracles, and, be¬
coming born of the spirit, ascended in the air, be¬
coming transfigured and effulgent, while others were
caught up into paradise and “ Beheld that glory
which eye hath not seen, nor eat heard, nor hath it
entered into the heart of man to conceive.”
In modern times like instances have occurred; and
in the life of the Curd DArs, who left this earth
only a few years ago, we have an example of a man
wholly self-sacrificing, and wholly given to God and
good works. He became a divine and miraculous
man, and with the power of prayer and the laying on
of hands he cured all manner of disease ; he saw the
secrets of those who hid from him in confession their
inner sins. He transformed wicked men and
women into repentant, remorseful, and good beings by
a mere word or touch of the hand, or glance of the
eye ; and while he himself lived on crusts and water,
he fed an orphanage of children, sometimes by a
j | miraculous increase of bread.
I must not, however, be misunderstood as exhibit-
! ing the lives of the Romish saints as perfect patterns
(I for us to follow.
[j For the most part they lived under the tyrannical
(j influence of an ignorant and superstitious and self-
n seeking priesthood, and they committed the fatal
45
Jan. 23, 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST.
error of thinking that it was holy to macerate and 11
disfigure their bodies, under the delusion that the [)
body was all sin, and the soul only holy. j <
But the Theosophist knows, on the contrary, that j >
the body is a necessary part of our triune nature; j <
and, as the temple of the spirit, must be rendered | >
clean, pure, strong, and beautiful.
But can we Theosophists in London, surrounded by j)
the noise and care and routine of daily life, with its (
money anxieties, attain to that life of holy self- |)
sacrifice, the result of which with the saints was the ! (
gift of miracles ? - |)
This question is not so easily answered, because we j s
have no examples to refer to. But with the Spirit !)
all things are possible. At the same time, “strait is j)
the gate and narrow is the way that leadeth unto j)
life, and few there be that find it.” j\
But, as our rule says, the object of this society is |)
by investigation and experiment to discover the K
nature and power of the soul and spirit; and if so, j /
may I now ask, are there any in this society willing s
to enter upon these experiments in person ?
Let us all begin as neophytes, and see how far we | j
can practise a life of self-denial and unselfishness, j)
free from scandals, strifes, envy, and jealousy, but full I)
of brotherly love. K
The essence of all sin and therefore of all weakness i ^
is selfishness, and the foundation of all true spiritual | <
power is love, self-denial, and unselfishness. And as j)
like attracts like, let us set our affections on things ! <
above, for if we do so, angelic spirits will minister j)
unto us, for thus should “ we surround ourselves with j (
the forms of our affections.”
| Draw near unto God,” for thus only does the j j
Spirit draw near unto you; and thus it is that we can j >
see how the highest science of psychology, namely, a j (
knowledge of how to save the soul, consists merely I)
in believing and in asking truthfully, sincerely, and | (
unselfishly. j)
If you do this, then not only will gradually come j (
to you health and strength of body, but clearness and i)
purity of mind, and that “ Spirit which will lead you j \
into all truth.” i j
Those who have watched the transformations which j j
sometimes take place in ecstatic entrancement, j)
where perhaps some almost ugly and ignorant person j<
suddenly becomes radiant, and moves with consum- j<
mate grace, as she utters words of heavenly wisdom, | v
will easily understand how the enlightened, trained, j)
and purified Christian neophyte may rise to beatific |j
visions.
If any such is prepared to say, “ I no longer desire \)
to feed on the husks which the swine do eat; I desire |<
to c forsake the sins which so easily beset me” and j
who says, “I will arise and go to my Father“I I
will set my face stedfastly to go to Jerusalem,” as 1
He did who knew that insults, crucifixion, and death L
awaited Him; or who, like the child Samuel, as he |\
watched in the temple, says, “ Speak, Lord, for Thy j!
servant heareth; u—if there be any such a one, then '
while listening, he or she will become conscious that !
there is One ‘‘who stands at the door and knocks,”
and very suddenly, it may be, you will be led rapidly ■
through the vestibule and into the presence chamber, |
and “ your eyes shall behold the King in His beauty,”
while by an ineffable effulgence, “ the secret of the
Logos”—“the kingdom of heaven within you”—“the
Lord of the Temple”—will be revealed. Then no
longer will you ask how best to become a theosophist;
for you will know, because you have already, while
on earth, attained to the spiritual resurrection of
your body, and to eternal life in the presence of
your God.
AN APPARITION.
The following narrative appeared January 1st,
1879, in The King's College Record, Windsor, Nova
Scotia. The journal is published by the authorities
of the college, and although the author of the
narrative unfortunately does not put his name and
address to it, both have been communicated to us by
our Nova Scotian correspondent. The account comes
from a trustworthy and judicial source:—
Before concluding this, my first letter from
America, I revert to the voyage with which it began
to tell you a well-authenticated ghost story that has
some connection with it. Our course was kept at a
convenient distance from the Isle of Sable—a much-
dreaded sand-bank, where the body of many a wrecked
pilgrim of the ocean lies literally media inhumatus
arena. Excepting a small human establishment, its
sole occupants are herds of ponies, and rabbits and
rats innumerable.
The story, as regards every incident save the
reality of the vision, which, of course, will not com¬
mand universal faith, is entirely credited by persons
of the first position and highest intelligence at the
capital. Torrens (or Torrence), a subaltern officer
of the 29th Regiment, stationed at Halifax, was
wrecked on the island. There, too, shortly before
his disaster, a transport ship, when bound for Halifax,
and freighted with horses and wines for Prince
Edward, afterwards Duke of Kent, had been cast
away.
Torrens, possessed of muscles and nerves of iron,
rescued, while there, many lives of the wrecked.
While performing, as a volunteer, that service in the
cause of humanity, he carried on his shoulders for a
long distance, through snow and sand, a son of the
superintendent in a state of exhaustion. The father,
naturally estimating highly this manifestation of
physical power, remarked in his official report to the
Lieutenant-Governor of Nova Scotia, “ If there be a
man on earth, please your Excellency, fit to
contend with Buonaparte, this is the man ! ” This
somewhat extravagant eulogium was not unpro¬
ductive of fruits, for the Provincial Legislature voted
one hundred pounds to reward the young soldier,
who was not reluctant to receive it, having lost all
he had in the world as a consequence of his own
shipwreck.
Thus the story goes:—
Torrens sat alone by his watch-fire at night, the
storm raging and the surf roaring without his cabin.
A female figure appeared, that with mute lips and an
uplifted bleeding hand, from which a finger had been
severed, beckoned him out. He had, so say those
who knew him well, as much of the old Roman in
him as he of classic story celebrated for his cool au
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1880.
revoir to a similar visitant. The spectral lady, after I)
conducting the soldier, who followed her, to a spot j<
marked by the transport’s wreck, and pointing to it j)
with the mutilated hand, vanished. Shortly after j<
this a ring was exhibited for sale in a jeweller’s shop ||
in Halifax, which was identified with one which had j<
been worn by a lady who had been the wife of a |)
Doctor Copeland. She, seeking her husband, then !|
with the army in America, had been a passenger in m
the transport, and a victim of the wreck.
Torrens, neither imaginative nor superstitious, but \)\
a man not likely to be disturbed by “ thoughts j(j
beyond the reaches of our souls,” was convinced of |)|
the reality of what he saw. He held himself ever j < |
ready to “ make a ghost” of any man who should jjj
presume to question the evidence that satisfied his Kj
own mind. Kind-hearted and generous, but prone m
to duelling, and, like Benvolio, “apt to quarrel with Kj
his best friend for having a hair more or less in his j) |
beard than he had in his own,” he was found to be k|
an unsafe man at the mess table, and was required j;j
therefore to quit the regiment.
Note by the Publisher.
The tale of the supernatural with which the pre- m
ceding letter concludes was told to the person who m
has above related it by an intimate personal friend of m
Torrens. Mention of it at the table of the late Sir i<j
John Cope Sherbrooke, when he was Lieutenant- m
Governor of the Province, drew from him a remark |l|
that had unmistakable reference to a well-known
tale of a spiritual visitant with which Sir John’s j (j
name is associated. When one of the guests derided m
the Torrens story, the Governor said, in the hearing m
of a gentleman who occupied a high position in the' j) j
colony, “I was once sceptical on such subjects, but, m
for reasons unnecessary for me to mention, I have jv[
ceased to be so.” Torrens, after his return to Eng- m
land, was, in the year 1806, at Chelmsford, in Essex, m
killed in a duel by Surgeon Fisher. ' r j(j
VISIONEN IN WASSERGLASE*
BY THE BARONESS ADELMA VON VAY (COUNTESS WURMBRAND).
My spirit guides informed me that I had the gift
of spirit sight without falling into a somnambulic
state—this was clairvoyance. They said visions would
appear in the following manner :—
I must take a glass filled with clear water, and
gaze steadily into it, and they would show me fluidic
pictures, or phantom exhibitions therein.
At the first trial I soon beheld some objects in the
water: theso resembled tiny bubbles and floating
clouds. By-and-by a railroad, a dog, figures of men
and women were developed. This was the beginning;
then the water was disturbed, and the pictures glided
off by the edge of the glass. I can only see in the
evening when the light is dim, never by day, and
must feel a strong inclination for the visions. I am
invariably in my normal state, i. e., am fully con¬
scious of what I see and hear. The wish or will of
others that I should see some particular picture has
no influence upon me.
I always experience with these representations
their joys or pains, their despondency or cheerfulness,
their gladness or displeasure, their conditions of
purity, undevelopment, or disgrace. Now some high
and noble spirit transports me with ecstatic joy; now
some degraded spirit possesses me and fills me with
misery. I look again and behold some sick person
whose sufferings for the time are made my own.
Should my eyes fill with tears, I am compelled to
look again, when some picture is shown me which
makes me laugh. Often the pictures unfold one
after another, many remaining some short time, each
being separate and distinct; others again vanish
immediately. These visions often appear much
larger than the size of the glass would allow. These
exhibitions most resemble photographs, sometimes
variedly and beautifully coloured, at others made up
of lights and clouds. ;
When I look into the Wasserglase I dictate
all that I see to my husband, Baron Eugen Yon
Vay, who takes notes; and afterwards I receive the
explanation in automatic writing from my spirit
guides.
November 9, 1869.—I see Professor W. L.: he
has a black patch on his forehead. (Explanation in
writing.) Professor W. L. will shortly suffer in his
head and will come and consult you. (Fulfilment.)
Professor W. L. who, at the time of my vision, was
in excellent heath, shortly after commenced to suffer
violently in his head. He consulted the doctors, and
failing to get relief had recourse to my healing
mediumship.
November 23, 1869.—I see Fanny B. dressed en¬
tirely in black; and now I see my brother E. writing.
(Fulfilment.) In 1870 Fanny B. died: my brother
E. wrote to me on the same day.
November 21, 1869.—Lawyer C. is here. He
looks quite black : a wicked little gnome is choking
him. (Explanation.) Lawyer C. is suffering from
the effects of an evil obsession which may cause
giddiness, deafness, and even blindness : morally also
this spirit may do him grievous harm. (Fulfilment.)
Some weeks after this the news arrived that Lawyer
C. was suffering intensely, and that his case was a
remarkably peculiar one, the chief symptoms being
cramp in the neck and deafness.
November 21, 1869.—I see a triangle, in each
corner of which there stands a pretty young girl/
(Explanation.) This means that your sister R. will
shortly be blessed with a third daughter. (Fulfil¬
ment.) At that time my sister had two little girls
and was most anxious for a son; however, according
to the prophecy, another daughter shortly presented
herself.. *
January 3, 1870.—I see X. She is enveloped in
a fur man tie; she smiles in resignation. Frau R. is
here weeping. (This was a lady whom I had only
seen once, and with whom I had but a casual acquain¬
tance.) I see myself in a travelling dress going to
meet my mother. (Explanation.) X. is resigned :
her daughter L. will die this year. The husband of
Frau R. is ill. You will go on a visit to your mother.
(Fulfilment.) That year the daughter of Countess
X. did die : also the husband of Frau R. In the
following December circumstances necessitated my
paying a visit to my mother.
* Translated from Studien Uber die QeisUrmU by Caroline Corner,
Jan. 23, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
47
THE GHOST OF SPEDLINS TOWER.
Spedlins Tower, the scene of one of the best
accredited and most curious ghost stories perhaps
ever printed, stands on the south-west bank of the
Annan, in Dumfriesshire. The ghost story, according
to Mr. Sharp, in his introduction to Law’s Memorialis,
is simply this :—Sir Alexander Jardine, of Apple-
garth, in the time of Charles II., had confined in the
dungeon of his tower of Spedlins a miller named
Porteous, suspected of having wilfully set fire to his
own premises. Sir Alexander being soon after sud¬
denly called away to Edinburgh, carried the key of
the vault with him, and did not recollect or consider
his prisoner’s case till he was passing through the
West Port, where, perhaps the sight of the warders
keys brought the matter to his mind. He
immediately sent back a courier to liberate the
man; but Porteous had, in the meantime, died of
hunger.
No sooner was he dead than his ghost began to
torment the household ; and no rest was to be had
within Spedlins Tower by day or by night. In this
dilemma, Sir Alexander, according to old use and
wont, summoned a whole legion of ministers to his
aid; and by their strenuous efforts, Porteous was at
length confined to the scene of his mortal agonies,
where, however, he continued to scream occasionally
at night, “ Let me out—let me out, for I’m deein’ o’
hunger ! ” He also used to flutter like a bird against
the door of the vault, and was always sure to remove
the bark from any twig that was sportively thrust
through the keyhole. The spell which thus com¬
pelled the spirit to remain in bondage, was attached
to a large black-letter Bible, used by the exorcists,
and afterwards deposited in a stone niche, which still
remains in the wall of the staircase ; and it is certain
that, after the lapse of many years, when the family
repaired to a newer mansion (Jardine Hall), built on
the other side of the river, the Bible was left behind
to keep the restless spirit in order. On one occasion,
indeed, the volume, requiring to be rebound, was sent
to Edinburgh ; but the ghost getting out of the dun¬
geon and crossing the river, made such a disturbance
in the new house, hauling the baronet and his lady
out of bed, &c., that the Bible was recalled before it
reached Edinburgh, and placed in its former situation.
The good woman who told Grose this story, in 1788,
declared that should the Bible again be taken off the
premises, no consideration whatever should induce her
to remain there a single night. But the charm seems
to be now broken, or the ghost must have become
either quiet or disregarded, for the Bible is at present
kept at Jardine Hall.
Last Wednesday night, at a seance at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, Mrs.
Hollis-Billing was the medium. The other guests present were
Mr. Annesley Mayne (of the Junior Carlton Club), Mrs. Wise¬
man, Archdeacon Gordon-Cumming Dunbar, Miss Mattie
Houghton, Mr. F. W. Percival, M.A. (Oxon), Mrs. Duncan,
the llev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., and Mr. Harrison.
M A BABY MEDIUM.
Mrs. Markee, once famous as a medium, is now
(j living at Richland Station, near Buffalo. She has a
j | baby about two years of age, which is represented by
yj the Buffalo Commercial Advertiser as possessing
> j medial powers. Mrs. Markee states that the baby could
(j be taken into any house and there be held in the lap
)] of a sceptic, when the manifestations would be as com-
I plete and satisfactory as those produced by any
>j medium in the world. The Advertiser says :—
“ We were all sitting around the table amid death-
(I like silence. Baby’s hands were placed on the table,
y I as were the hands of all present. After a minute of
)| silence Mrs. Markee asked if there were any spirits
y i present, when three distinct raps were heard under
II baby’s hands. The lady of the house explained that
\| three raps meant yes, two raps- did not know, and
(| one rap meant no. She also told us that, now that
)j there were spirits present, any of the party could call
G for any spirit he desired and those present would go
); and get them. One of the party called for the spirit
c j of his uncle, who had been dead ten years. The
) j uncle came and answered all questions asked. The
l\ conversation was very pleasant, but it was hard on
\\ the baby, who by this time had become restless and
(I completely worn out.
y I [Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diame-
\ i trically opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communica -
(j Hons cannot be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given
(| to letters which are not anonymous.']
)j DK. HOUCK.
y I Sie,—The committee formed for promoting the testimonial to
) | Dr. Monck would feel greatly obliged to you if you will permit
)| me to call attention to their advertisement, with the view of
(j enlisting as early a response as possible from several friends and
y i local societies who are, they hear, interesting themselves in the
yi matter.
) j The fund has not yet reached the amount necessary to complete
)| what they hope to accomplish, viz., so to assist Dr. Monck as
(| to place him in a position to render his invaluable services to
|| Spiritualism as an unpaid medium.
)! It is our wish to close the English list of subscriptions this
/| month, although for the sake of those who cannot get their
y I subscription lists completed by that time, as well as for friends
y j abroad, we shall have a supplemental list subsequently published.
> j They also wish me to thank many friends who have offered
(j their names as members of the committee of reference, and to say
y j it has been their aim to make the committee representative rather
y j than numerous, and they have reluctantly left out many names
> i which may however be utilised in another way ; the only exception
) j after the list was closed has been in favour of Prof. Zollner, who
(i has done so much for our cause in Germany.
y I In conclusion, I am requested to ask all local societies to do
yi what they can, and especially in the collection of small sums.
)j They return thanks to several friends who have corresponded
(j with the press recently with this object.
y! If any require circulars, they suggest application to Mr. Burns,
y | 15, Southampton-row, who has some in type ; or, better still,
) i circulate copies of this number of The Spiritualist.
ft| M okell Theobald, Hon. Sec. to the Committee.
yi TO OOEEESPONDENTS.
) I X.—A few men with small public reputations to lose, having committed them-
y j selves by publicly <1 enying the existence of the established phenomena of nature
\ I on which Spiritualism is founded, are apparently anxious to induce everybody
( i they can, in any position of authority, to act upon their lines, so that when
( ; they are pilloried in history they may be found in good company.
(; E.—In certain characteristics all physical mediums are upon the same spiritual
| j plane, or their powers would not be genuine.
(I H.—In certificating to the public the genuineness of manifestations, it is neces-
(I sary you should add your full address as well as your name.
\: We have received several letters from Holland, and inform the writers that no
< < data exist upon which to found an absolute conclusion.
48
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Ry the late 'Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.E.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 8d. post free
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Intrdvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling's Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator-
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascinat'on Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artiflcially Produced—Mesmerised Water
■ • Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characteis—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration-Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
/ i In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
< i civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
\ | sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
(i lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
j! ways, gas, and G-alileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
)i The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
/: investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
(j professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
(j true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
vj were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
> i presence of mediums without being touched.
/ i Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
) | Soien/t'., devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
11 thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
/1 house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
(j Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
(! professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
\ | Ifiquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
)j forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
/ i stranger to the family present.
|] The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
? | science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
(| untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
\ i private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
) | by any member of the family. At the present time there are
) | only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe-
/i nomena in all G-reat Britain, consequently, if these were all
/ i tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
(i be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
(I great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro-
\ i tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
(j the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
\| which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
) i duped who trust in worthless authorities.
) | One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
) | ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
(| new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
(| tions, obtains the phenomena:—
(| 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
) I tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
) I 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
) | the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
(| wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
(| top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
(I little importance. Any table will do.
'l l 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
) | but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
>| 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
1 j general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
) | should be of a frivolous nature.
/ i 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
(j feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
(| indications will probably be table-tilting or raps,
vi 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
) | to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
) | the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
) | three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
(i “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
(| If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
(| letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
I to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
) | three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
) i from this time an intelligent system of communication is
) | established.
/1 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
(j trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
(\ messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
>! usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
)l objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
>| the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
’i or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
(j undeniable proof.
| 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two stances
: because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
| sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi-
i tive to mesmeric influences.
I Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
| week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Jan. 23, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WOELD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers .No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished ; torment and misery are . everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
T71ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
JD in Spiritualism, by Christian Eeimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism. 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C. , ,, , ,
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own hemes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper. Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd.,; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN¬
GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. CATTY, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
British national assocla
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Croat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to sSances, Sea., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m to 9.-30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each ; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, ‘‘ S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price3s. 6d, Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free-
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Riebmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
Wnite, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
Xtl.—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVi II.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wumibrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXt.—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A.. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon'.”
XXXV.—The.Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfalleh).
XXXVI [. — Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India,. By Dr. M aximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
l XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8ro.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lbe M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES S ARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapte r IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit-,
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Ball—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby,
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of* Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss —Leon Case-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS PROM. THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
PART II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie's Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ’—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVH. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
pEYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
_L\j psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Socule Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payak le to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1880.
Accidental Indigestion,
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
Christmas Pudding,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world."
Stimulants and insufficient
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
'l he Physical Pasts of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c„ use
ENO’S EKUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
"C'AGGED, WEARY, AND WORN
JP OUT! 1! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use END’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue de la
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, andreceived
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
TTiNO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer-
I j ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health : and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Pest Office, Barrasford.”
“ QUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
IO vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediatfiy introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked •'ENO'S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
TESTIMONIAL for Dr. MONCK.
APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
Dear Friends,
Fully sensible that too many appeals have been
made on behalf of Mediums, we feel that Dr. Monck’s
case presents one for a special claim upon the gene¬
rosity of Spiritualists.
As one of the Pioneers of our belief, he has not only
spent his private means, but also his very life; for in
furthering research by means of the marvellous
materialisations in the light through his mediumship,
his health, already exhausted by bitter persecution,
has completely given way.
For nearly two years he has been cared for by kind
friends, but it is now his desire to return to the work
so dear to him as soon as his health permits, and
especially is it his wish to work as an unpaid
medium, to do which some temporary help is now
needed.
The undersigned earnestly appeal to all Spiritualists
to assist Dr. Monck in his present necessity, and to
subscribe liberally to the Testimonial now under their
care.
One friend has offered to give £20 if £80 more is
subscribed in sums of £10 and £S each. We think this
challenge should be accepted, but we hope small sums
will not be withheld.
W. P. Adshead, Belper.
Dr. Brown, Burnley.
James Burns, Southampton-row.
Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-squaro, S.W,
Prof. R. Friese, Breslau.
A. J. Cranstoun, Meggen, Lucerne.
J. H. Gledstanes, Merignac.
Baron Dirckinck Holmfeld, Holstein.
Sir O. Isham, Bart., Northampton.
Rev. W. Stainton-MOSes, M.A,, Kilburn.
Wm. Oxley, Manchester.
E. Dawson Rogers, Finchley.
Morell Theobald, Hon. Sec.
J. Pemberton Turner, Leamington.
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P., Queen Anne-street.
Prof. F. ZOLLNER, Leipzig.
All remittances should be sent to
Morell Theobald.
62, Granville-park, Blackheath.
Subscriptions already received.
£ s. d.
Mr. and Mrs. Oranstoun, Lucerne   10 0 0
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston   10 0 0
W. P. Adshead, Esq., Belper  5 5 0
William Tebb, Esq., Albert-road  5 5 0
H.R.H. Prince G    5 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square 5 0 0
Dr. J. Dixon, Great Ormond-street  5 0 0
F. G. S., per A. Calder, Esq.    2 2 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P  2 2 0
J. Pemberton Turner, Esq    2 2 0
Morell Theobald, Esq  2 2 0
F. Myers, Esq        2 0 0
Two Friends       2 0 0
Dr. Brown, Burnley     1 1 0
Wm. Oxley, Esq.    1 1 0
Rev, W. Stainton-Moses, M.A     11 0
Mrs. Stone, Shute Haye    110
J. B. Stones, Esq      110
Dr. Stowell, Brighton     1 1 0
James Bowman, Glasgow     10 0
Miss Douglas, South Audley-street  10 0
R. Gessler, Basle     10 0
A Friend, per R. Gessler     10 0
Joseph Swinburne, Esq     1 0 0
A. Tod, Peebles      10 0
Rev. W. MialL Hackney     10 0
Miss Ottley, Belgravia  10 0
Dr. Wyld     10 0
John A. Hoover, Philadelphia   0 5 0
A. P.,-Edinburgh   0 10 0
W. R. Tomlinson     0 10 0
T. Farrell      0 10 0
J. Thompson   0 10 0
Small Sums    1 13 0
Second List.
Mrs. Makdongall Gregory   10 0
Prof. Cassal, Lon. University    110
A. J. Cranstoun, Esq., second donation ... 2 0 0
F. W. Perciva), Etq., Savile Club   1 1 0
The Yen.-Archdeacon T   10 0 0
Herr Oscar von Hoffman, Leipzig     8 0 0
J. Clark Ferguson   0 10 0
Dr. Kennedy        20 0 0
R. Glendinning, Birkdale     110
“ One who Wishes She Could do More "  0 10 0
George Tommy, Bristol    0 10 6
Oapt. Copperthwaite, Malton    5 0 0
Capt. James, Gower-street      110
P.O. Order from Germany   10 0
Other Small Sums and Stamps   0 9 6
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The "Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .76
The Seer. „ HI. „ ... 7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, ..76
The Thinker. „ V. ,..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . . . , . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . 2 6
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . ■ . . £ 6
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 0
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCHOFT, Manager
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
January, 1880.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Spiritualism in some of its Religious Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Curious
Reasoning of a “Master in Israel": A. M. H. W.—
Spiritualism and Positivism in Relation to Problems
of Government: G. F. Green—Spiritualism in China :
Dr. Nicholls—Spiritual Evolution: M.A. (Oxon)—
Popular Errors and Objections to Spiritualism Ex¬
plained and Answered: J. S. Farmer—William Lloyd
Garrison and the Rev. Odin Ballou: T. S.—Notes and
Gleanings: Examine Yourselves; California Changes;
Spiritualism Capturing the Church ; Opponents Over¬
come ; “ What is our Nature ? ’’ The Uses of Spirit¬
ualism.—A Christmas Carol: J. T. Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: HAY NiSBET & Co. 52 Rope work-lane.
CONTENTS.
Good and Evil. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.,
Author of Letters to Miss Martineau    37
Spiritual Phenomena in Australia  38
An Apparition Seen by the Supreme Council of
India       38
A Lady Killed by the Force of Imagination   39
Emancipation from the Flesh  40
A Strange Phenomenon     41
Spirit Identity    42
Spiritualism in the Provinces    42
M. Jules Favre    43
How Pest to Become a Theosophist. By George
Wyld, M.D.     43
An Apparition      45
Visioncn in Wasserglase. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand)  46
Lady Chatterton's Vision     47
A Baby Medium     47
Correspondence:—Dr. Monck     47
To Correspondents    47
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub
lished by E, W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London
E.C
