Registered as a Newspaper.
No. 409.—(Voii. XVI.—No. 26.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JUNE 25, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty''s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May he obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING- LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Will be Published in a few days, containing striking selections from the writings of Me. William Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., Mr. A. R. Wallace, F.R.G-.S., The Committee op the Dialectical Society, Propessor Hare, of Philadelphia,
Professor Z6llner, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Captain R. F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The w*rk will also contain some useful information for inquirers.
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years1 experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms * a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the berefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited witn naving written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch. Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 25, 1880,
ALLAN KAEDEC’S WOEKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). Erom the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). Erom the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). Erom the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbttbneb and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIEIT-ID ENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxfon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Eire Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SHIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
J A M E S M A L T B Y,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITHALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE TH EOSOPHI8T,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL
PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY, LITERATURE AND ART.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM ELETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
"Will Lecture at Steimvay Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. E. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
HEALING BY LAYING ON OE HANDS
DR. JAMES MACK,
37, UPPER BAKER STREET, REGENT’S
PARK. At Home from 10 till 5.
D. YOUNGER,
Mesmerist, Mesmeric Healer, Medical Rubber,
gives private instructions. Mesmeric Seances and
I Electro-biological Entertainments at Home or by
appointment. < Can also supply Mesmeric Sensitives
for Private Experiments, At Home daily from 2 till 10.
Moscow House, 45, Moscow-road, Bayswater, W.
M
ARYLEBONE PROGRESSIVE
INSTITUTE AND SPIRITUAL EVIDENCE
SOCIETY, Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec Street,
Marylebone Road, London,near Baker Street Station.
The Society will celebrate its first New Year of
freedom from debt on Thursday and Friday, July 1st,
and 2nd.
On July 1st, 1879, by the kind aid of several ladies
it cleared off all material responsibilities, and by
economy still remains in that position. The cele¬
bration will comprise the display of baskets of flowers,
with some curiosities, which will be for sale at very
moderate prices.
Mr. J. M. Dale desires respectfully to state that the
articles were unsold last year and are his own property,
and that the sale of them is the only remuneration he
has or will accept for his labours in the cause or for
the above Society.
Doors open at 2 p.m. on Thursday and 3 p. m. on
Friday. Admission Free. Light refreshments at
moderate charges.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Eree.
Post Office Orders to u The Proprietors of 1 The TheosophistJ ”
at the above address.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock.
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
for
173,
A/TRS. WOODEORDE, Any form
JLtJL Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, RusseH-square, "W.C.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
V_y DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone road, Earls-court, S. W.
Hell opened to chris-
TIAN8.—This.is one of the most objectionable
orthodox books ever published, and contains pictures
of the infernal regions calculated to strike terror into
the hearts of children and people with weak nerves.
Cloth, eight illustrations. Post free sevenpence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch office, 33, Museum
Street, London, "W.O.
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely hound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s.. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
A LLEGORICAL SKETCHES,
XJL FOUNDED ON SPIRITUAL TRUTHS.
1. The Inward Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. 3. The
Two Voices. 4. The Invisible Teacher. Price Is. 6d.
VicioaiA Steam Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.
riHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\J WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street, Bryanston-square, London.
#49 eiM9
]L uf % uf ^ mtir uf ^pitjiiMfem.
No. 409.—YOLUME SIXTEEN; NTJMBEK TWENTY-SIX.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 2 5th, 1880.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peioe Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist:—
His Impeeial Highness Ni¬
cholas oe Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Loed Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baeoness Von Vay, Coun¬
tess Wurmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robeet Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandee Aksakof,
St. Petersburg
Sie Chaeles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Bueton, F.R.G.S.
Alfbed Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Seejeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexandee Caldee, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Makdougall Geegoey
Geeald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
3. C Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
F. Podmoee, Esq., B.A. (Oxon).
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Ceowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speee, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robeet S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev, C. Maueioe Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
C Blackbuen, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Maekley, Esq.
Peince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baeon Von Dibckinck-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M.Adelbeethde Bouebon,First
Lieut, of the Dutch Guard to
the King of the Netherlands
M. L. F. Clavaieoz (Leon
Favre)
William Ceookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Vaeley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. Geoege W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Feiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Saegent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. Geoege Wyld
W. Lindesay Richaedson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoobe, Esq., J.P.
C. Caetee Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algeenon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E,
Desmond FitzGeeald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Baekas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Maetheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showees
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Puedon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Floeence Marbyat
Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue FIorimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 51, East Twelfth-street, New
York; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.s. ; Beligio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
hey-street, Sah Frarieisoo; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
THE SPIRITS OF THE DEPARTED.
The chief use of Spiritualism is to demon¬
strate the reality of a life beyond the grave
to the multitudes of thinking people who are
interested in the solution of the problem, and
who contemplate the possibility of a future
life either with longing aspiration or with
fear, according to the lives they lead or the
natural spirituality of their characters.
Of all the facts of Spiritualism those which
tell upon this problem with crushing force
are the spontaneous apparitions of all ages.
In the case of death-bed apparitions^, in which
the spirit appears to one or several persons at
one place, at the time of the death of the
body at another place a long way off, and gives
the first information of its departure from
earth, there is no question as to the personal
identity of the apparition. In answer to the
suggestion that these apparitions may be hut
the result of the action of one mind upon
another across a large intervening space, the
spontaneous' apparitions in haunted houses
sometimes appear scores of years after the
death of the body ; and even among what are
usually classed as death-bed apparitions are
some in which the spirit presented itself
several days after the death of the body. “ I
died last Tuesday at four o’clock,” said the
spirit of Lord Tyrone to Lady Beresfofd, be¬
fore writing his signature in her pocket
hook.
In a minority of cases in which medium-
ship is brought into play, strong evidence of
spirit identity is given, the communicant
revealing particulars, previously unknown to
the medium and all present, about his death
and family affairs, accompanied by precise
information in the shape of accurate names
and dates. The details of the phenomena in
these cases show that they are closely con¬
nected in kind with those of spontaneous
apparitions.
But in medial utterances there is usually
an unconscious mixture of the thoughts of
the medium with the thoughts of the spirit,
and this blending renders the assertions in
the messages as to spirit identity, questionable.
302 THE SPIRI
Indeed, some mediums can present no
evidence of spirit identity at all, but utter in
a kind of mesmeric sleep dreamy streams of
platitudes, evolved apparently from the
depths of their own ideas. Mediums vary in
their transparency, so to speak, to spirit
power, as much as different kinds of glass
vary in transparency to light.
Supposing that all the evidence of spirit
identity could be swept away, the common
phenomenon of a living hand or head, the
duplicate in appearance of that of the
medium, appearing at one part of a room
while the medium is in a dead trance at the
other, would of itself be extremely sug¬
gestive. While gazing at the sleeping medium
in one part of the room, and the living du¬
plicate of him at the other, the question
might well arise in the mind of the observer,
whether, when the dead body of a friend is
in the coffin, the living counterpart may not
be somewhere else.
The evidence necessary to support the line
of argument here advanced would of course
fill a book, and has been given by us in book
form, but when all the facts are examined on
the lines herein laid down, they reveal that
Spiritualism gives most satisfactory evidence
of a life hereafter.
PSYCHONOMY OR SPIRITUALISM ?
A REJOINDER.
BV FRANK PODMORE, B.A. (OXON.), E.C.S.
In an article recently published in these
columns, Mr. Campbell has shewn that the
word Spiritualism, by its etymology, should
mean the knowledge of the Spirit—that is, of
G-od, and the Godlike in man, but that
what is called Spiritualism deals, not with
the spiritual, but with the psychical, and is
no more a spiritual science than is Anthro¬
pology, which deals, indeed, with the same
subject matter, but only in its human rela¬
tions. He contends, therefore, that we
should change the name of Spiritualism to
Psychonomy, and confess, that, call it what
we will, it is merely a natural science, to be
ranked with other sciences of Biology, Che¬
mistry, Economics, and the like. But of the
great questions of ethics it is not competent
to offer a solution. And against the so pre¬
valent materialism of our day, which dwarfs
our best energies and blights the fruition of
our highest hopes, we must sorrowfully ac¬
knowledge that it has little, if any, power
at all.
I trust that I have here fairly represented
T U A L I S T. June 25, 1880.
Mr. Campbell’s maim contention, and that in
the few remarks which I propose to make,
I shall not be found to combat, as is the wont
of theologians and metaphysicians, a phantom
antagonist sprung in full panoply from my
own brain. I should be sorry if this were so,
for I heartily admire, and cordially sympa¬
thise with Mr. Campbell in very much
which he has said, so far as my imperfect in¬
telligence will permit me to understand him.
As regards the etymology of the word Spirit¬
ualism; if we are to fix meaning by derivation,
we should have to alter the titles of most of
our sciences. “ Botany,’’ “ Electricity,” and
“ Physiology ” are all objectionable. So is
“ Physics,” for the reason that it includes far
too much. The word now signifies merely
the study of radiant energy and electricity in
their various manifestations, and does not in¬
clude the whole of natural phenomena, which
is the meaning, if we go back to the Greek.
We should, moreover, have to change the
barbarous and vague term, “ Political Eco¬
nomy,” to “ Catallactics,” as suggested by
Archbishop Whately. For J. S. Mill is not,
as Mr. Campbell appears to imagine, the re¬
presentative of modern scientific Economy,
any more than he is of modern metaphysical
thought, in this country or any other. And
wealth, the subject matter of the science, has
received an adequate definition^ as being “that
which possesses exchangeable value.” But
the tenure of words is less precarious than
that of estates. Possession in such cases is
the whole of the law, and after a certain term
of undisturbed occupancy, a prescriptive title
is established. The meaning of words is
ultimately fixed by usage : by the multitude
of associations that cluster round them, and
are suggested by them. A word of long
usage forms the starting point for many
trains of thought. Like an ivy-clad tower,
it is haunted with shadowy memories of the
past, whilst still green with the full young
life of the present. And before we decide to
destroy such a link with the years gone by,
and fill its place with some new fabric of our
own, we must be certain that the benefits to
be gained are well worth the cost.
But the word “ Spiritualism,” it may be
said, brings with it no] recollections of the
hoary Past. But it at least recalls a
past that was less sordid than the present.
It reminds us of the time when Robert Dale
Owen and Judge Edmonds and Mr. De
Morgan wrote, and when Mr. Gerald Massey
had not left poetry for Egyptian mythology.
June 25, 1880.
No doubt, these men had not all that we should
look for in the Evangelists of a new faith.
They were no G-od-intoxicated heroes, preach¬
ing living truth in words that burn. But at
least they were men of clear sense and pure
feeling, who would have scorned the vulgar
curiosity of physical stances, and the dreary
commonplace of trance addresses. They were
men who taught that Spiritualism was to be
valued, not for its signs, but for all which
those signs might signify. And it recalls to
us all how we first started on the quest with
bright hopes that were soon dulled, and high
aspirations that have not been fulfilled.
But the word “Spiritualism” does more
than this. It is a beacon to guide us onward,
and to light the way to a goal which it may
not be given us to reach. Even though it
should prove a mere will-o’-the-wisp, the
very effort to attain that goal ennobles failure.
The victory may not be won in the strife, but
to have striven crowns defeat. If all that
Spiritualism can do, is, as I understand Mr.
Campbell to say, to add one more to the list
of sciences which shall elucidate the psychical
powers of man, as Political Economy has
elucidated his powers of barter, or Physiology
his powers of digestion, what, I would ask,
has Spiritualism to do with us ? What, in
such a case, has it to offer to those who are
drawn to it by the hope of finding something
which no science has been able to give them ?
Will the real workers—and there are a few
such amongst Spiritualists, good men and
true—expend any longer the best energies of
heart and brain on the problem, if that be
the solution ? Let us not then give up a
name which is consecrated by the memories
of a less ignoble past, and by the hopes of a
brighter future, until we are forced to acknow¬
ledge that past efforts were in vain, and that
present hopes are baseless.
But the real issue between Mr. Campbell
and myself is this. He appears to believe
that the assurance of a future life can be
given on the authority of Christ’s word and
teaching alone, to a world that has long since
questioned that authority. For if a man will
not hear Christ, neither will he be persuaded,
though many rose from the dead. There is
in his view no need of the proofs which
Spiritualism professes to be able to give of j>
the existence of man after death, in a psychical, | \
and indeed, in any other than a purely Is
chemical form,—as a certain weight of carbon IS
dioxide, water, ammonia and the like. I do I)
not think so. In view of the ever widening ||
303
S | gulf between those who believe what they
SI have felt, and those who believe only what
a they have seen, I cannot think that there is
no need of such proofs. But the present is
S| not the time to discuss a question that
si involves so much. For the rest, looking down
q on the promised land from Mount Nebo, I
?| wish here to express my hearty concurrence
n with much that Mr. Campbell has said of the
s| present position of Spiritualism and Spirit-
<| ualists, and my bitter regret that it should be
/ so. Mr. Campbell attributes their present
Sj case, if I have read him rightly, to the belief
(| that the search after marvels, and the giving
(\ heed to questionable oracles, could take the
?j place of a religion. Most fully do I agree
| with him on this point too ; but I will venture
s| to enlarge his definition of religion, and to
| urge that it is, in the first place, the binding
?j link of man to man. Has Mr. Campbell ever
;| kept a collection of sea-creatures in an aquar-
Vj ium, and had occasion to note the result ? It
J is somewhat after this sort. You will imitate
>| the conditions of real life as nearly as is in
| your power. You will plant groves of sea-
si weed, red and green. You will strew the
q floor with sand and rock, and renew the
)] water day by day. And within a few days
)] you will find that your sea-urchins, and star-
si fishes and whelks will crawl out of the water,
<| and will hardly venture in again. Your
| shrimps and prawns will leap out of the tank
)j on to the floor. Your beautiful polyps, and
s] a hundred varied forms of life, with feathered
q crowns and floating plumes, will sicken and
>| die. But the lazy, uninteresting sea-anemones
>! will live on, and even they will grow daily
| less pretty and more sluggish. And the last
q stage will be one of utter corruption. Your
>j sand will grow black from the putrefaction
s| which it hides. Your water will become foul
s] and turbid, and only the minute beings that
(j are born of death and feed on decay will en-
>1 dure to live. And this will happen as often
sj as you include in your miniature ocean any
<1 of the more vigorous and active forms of life,
q Only mere specks of living jelly, dull and
q insensate as the flowers from which they
s| take their name, can bear that isolation. Ail
the higher animals are dependent upon the
freedom of the wider medium; upon the ebb
and flow of the tide; upon the changing
currents that purify the ocean, and the sweet
influences of wind and sun that quicken the
living and remove the corruption of the
dead.
Now, we all live in a medium of this kind
9
THE SPIRITUALIST.
304
THE SPIRIT UALIST.
June 25, 1880.
whose power is none the less real because it pj
is only faintly comprehended. It speaks to Kl
us from every hook we read: we feel it in k|
every social observance: it: breathes on us P|
from the lips of every fellow man. It sur- |Vi
rounds us as with an atmosphere from infancy |v|
to age. It enters into our dreams by night,
and forms the warp and woof of all our j<ji
waking thoughts. We live and move in it: l>!
we draw it in with every breath. It is the |s|
oxygen of the mind, the quickener of all our la
higher life. And like this earthly atmo- j||
sphere, whose superincumbent weight we bear | ^ I
with us wherever we go, so long as the Rj
due balance is maintained and it surrounds |?j
us on every side, we are unconscious of its |>|
presence. But if we separate ourselves by Kj
but a little, if we disturb our exact adjust- Kj
ment to our environment for a single instant, m
we then find its weight to be well-nigh irre- j;j
sistible. And should we be altogether cut off |S|
from it, all in us that is above the level of Kj
the brute must perish. And this medium is M
the social consciousness.
Now, some such process of deterioration as I |Sj
have above described, must take place in any Kj
man or any small body of men who withdraw j/j
themselves from the living current of the j>j
national thought; whose daily talk and daily jsj
interests are not in the world of art, or of |c!
nature, but are wholly occupied with their j?j
own small and petty concerns: whose sym- m
pathies are not with the men and wonien who |?j
think, and work, and suffer around them, but jq
are absorbed in their own particular apoca- j?j
lypse. In such a sect only the dull and the |Sj
commonplace can continue to thrive. All jq
higher natures must gradually degenerate. |?j
Their faculties, no longer enlarged by con- j>!
tinual interchange with the outer world, will m
grow dwarfed and narrow. Their ways of jq
thinking, when there is no fresh stream of jq
thought to bear away what is effete and use- j>|
less, will be stereotyped in their insufficiency. IS I
Such a sect will be characterised by the jq
obstinacy with which each individual member jq
will uphold his own opinion, and his incapa- j)j
city to see the truth in other men’s. For jsj
such largeness of view only grows by constant iq
familiarity with larger interests. Amongst !>!
such men it will be vain to look for new jsj
wisdom, or a more ideal morality. The jsj
great world is moving on to a higher Truth jq
and a larger Justice; but they will still !?!
become less tolerant of fancied error, less |sj
reverent in their homage to duty, less willing jsj
to sacrifice their own for the greater good, jq
as the heart-throbs of the national life grow
fainter within them. By weakening the
common bond, and obscuring the truth which
all hold together, their very isolation from
the world will only isolate them the more
from each other. It is probable that in a few
years such a sect will have grown into many
sects, and every man will think what is right
in his own eyes. For them the larger hope
must fade, and the wider love grow cold.
The vision will be dim, the hand will falter,
and the heart grow faint, of those who have
no fellowship or communion one with another.
The true religion is that which binds man to
man.
London, June 20th, 1880.
Archdeacon Dunbar.—The Rev. Archdeacon Dun¬
bar has done much in making popular the magnificent
oratorios and elaborate church music of the great com¬
posers. He has now moved his services from St.
Andrew’s Church, Tavistock-place, to St. Andrew’s
Hall, Newman-street, Oxford-street. At St. Andrew’s
Church the accommodation was limited, and there were
only 150 sittings free; but at St. Andrew’s Hall, which
seats 1,200 persons comfortably, there are 800 free and
open sittings. Archdeacon Dunbar’s seatholders have,
without exception,, followed him to St. Andrew’s Hall,
which speaks volumes for the kindly feeling existing
between the congregation and their pastor. The music
is most artistic. There is no organ in the hall, but the
services are accompanied by a complete orchestra, both
morning and evening. An oratorio is sung as the
anthem every Sunday at the 6.30 p.m. service. The
followihg oratorios are announced: June 6th, Rossini’s
Stabat Mater; June 13th, Beethoven Mount of Olives;
June 20th, Haydn’s Creation ; Jude 27th, Handel’s
Judas Maccabseus; July 4th, Rossini’s Stabat Mater;
July 11th, Handel’s Messiah; July 18th, Mendelssohn’s
Hymn of Praise; July 25th, Sullivan’s Light of the
World; August 1st, Rossini’s Stabat Mater; August
8th, Spohr’s Last Judgment. By the anthem papers it
will be seen that Rossini’s Stabat Mater is to be sung
on the first Sunday of each month, and other oratorios
on each of the other Sundays. v The hall has an
ecclesiastical appearance. Round the walls under the
galleries are hung oil paintings of various scripture
subjects. On the stage, (which is covered with old
Persian and Turkish rugs,) is an altar of unusual size.
Before it stand two large old Flemish brass candle¬
sticks, with thick wax candles, some four or five feet
high. At the back of the altar is an oil painting of
“ The Last Supper.” The altar is also ornamented
with a pair of solid old brass candlesticks, an old
Flemish cross, and vases of flowers. The middle
passage of the hall is covered with Persian rugs. There
is in the body- of the hall a litany desk of old tapestry,
and on the stage a lectern for the Bible, and seats for
the clergy and a portion of the choir. Behind the
altar is a screen forty feet long by ten feet high, covered
by a mediaeval patterned curtain (designed by Morris)
which completely hides the rest of the choir and the
whole of the orchestra from the sight of the congre¬
gation. Archdeacon Dunbar intends to preach at this
hall regularly, and he has the option of remaining for
between two or three years. He intends to remain there
until he can secure some large suitable permanent
church in which to hold his services.
June 25, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
305
STATUYOLENOE AND SPIRITUALISM.
Dr. Fahnestock was reared among people
who do not take kindly to Spiritualism, to say
the least. He was at first bitterly opposed to
the u delusion,” hut was finally convinced of
its truth by means of experiments which he
was led to make by reading the work of Dr.
Hare, whom he had known as a professor
while pursuing his medical studies. He
believes that much of the confusion of mind
and physical deterioration so often attending
the development of trance mediumship come
from the fact that the controlling spirit does
not understand fully the law of control; and I
will show the influence of Statuvolism by
stating in the author’s words its method of ap¬
plication to mediumship, quoting from a
pamphlet on Statuvolence and its Uses, p. 34.
11A very singular circumstance, independent
of my seeking, accidentally took place in my
presence, at the house of a friend to whom I
was paying a visit while in Cincinnati two
years ago. . . A spirit had for some time
previously been endeavouring to control Miss
E—— . . . who had never been in a somnam¬
bulic or statuvolic condition; knowing nothing
about it, or of spirit control, never having
witnessed anything of the kind.
Eepeated attempts were made by the same
spirit to control her, with but imperfect suc¬
cess, until a few evenings before I saw her.
Upon these occasions, however, although un¬
conscious and apparently under perfect control,
it was unsatisfactory, because the spirit
brought such an unhappy condition with it
that it seemed to suffer from the disease which
had caused it to pass away. This condition of
the spirit caused great annoyance, and pre¬
vented free speech, so that nothing connected
or intelligent could be communicated. .
I suggested that ‘there certainly was no
necessity for the spirit to feel the unhappiness
which she seemed to be labouring under,’
and stated if she would not i dwell upon or
think of it, that she would be relieved as
soon as she had done so.’ The spirit embraced
the idea at once, and was entirely relieved, and
then began to laugh and converse freely,
stating who she was, and what object she had
in coming. After the spirit seemed to have
communicated all that it desired, and was about
to give up the control, I requested it to leave
the lady in the same conditon in which she
was found when it took control, and agreeing
to do so, it departed. The young lady was
then found to be in a perfect statuvolic con¬
dition and was clear-minded in all her faculties,
Vi making many clairvoyant and other satisfactory
experiments.” Afterwards she was “easily
? I controlled by the same spirit, who acknowledged
>| that the control was now pleasant, and free
il from the disagreeable sensations which before
t; were so distressing. This case, and many
[‘ others of a like nature, which I could give in
i| detail were it necessary, would certainly go
)l to prove that the somnambulic or statuvolic
)j condition was the foundation of spirit control
and necessary to its accomplishment in all
Si cases. Indeed, all trance mediums who are
jj not clairvoyant can be taught to become so, by
si means of spirit control, and by the spirits
|j leaving them when they give up the control,
11 in the same condition in which they found
)| them when they took control.” E. P. T.
Cl Towanda, Pennsylvania, May 21st, 1880.
)i "♦ 
MR. HUSK’S MEDIUMSHIP.
! Last Tuesday night at a seance through the
(| mediumship of Mr. James Husk, held at Mrs.
ii Woodforde’s, 4, Keppel Street, Eussell Square,
jj London, about twelve or fourteen sitters were
)j present. Throughout the dark seance the
j hands of Mr. Husk were firmly held by the
j| sitters on either side of him.
The passage of matter through matter was
)| shown by a manifestation now common at
\\ spirit circles. One of the sitters next to Mr.
<| Husk, a new inquirer, was asked to grasp his
a hand firmly, and while their hands were thus
>| united, a chair was c£ threaded ” on their arms,
ij which when alight was struck, were seen pass-
(i ing through the aperture formed by the continu-
)\ ous bars of the back of the chair. Later on in
)j the seance, two chairs were similarly threaded
si at once upon Mr. Husk’s arms while his hands
(1 were held;
)| While all the observers with their hands
n interlinked were sitting round a table in a
sj room with locked doors, a loquacious spirit was
jj busy piling up heavy articles on the table, in-
jj eluding an arm chair, a heavy chess table, a
yj writing desk, a glass fern-case and a variety of
sj* small objects, which had been gently floated
jj over the heads of the sitters. When a light
jj was struck the top of the table looked like part
jj of a furniture shop. The fern-case stood un-
jj broken amid the heavy articles around it.
Several times an unusually large and heavy
j| musical box, weighing perhaps twenty pounds,
jj was carried about swiftly in the air.
jj A new Spiritualistic Society has been formed in Mel-
ji bourne, under the presidency of Mr. William Rice,
jj Some interesting private stances with private mediums
j; have been held of late at Mrs. W. E. Corner’s, 3, St.
V- Thomas’s Square, Hackney.
306
NEW BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM. !>
PSYCHIC FACTS. |>
This book, which will be issued next week
from the branch office of The Spiritualist, 33, |S
Museum Street, London, contains the most K
weighty concentration of authoritative utter- w
ances in relation to spiritual phenomena ever |)
issued in one cover, consequently is admirably Is
adapted to influence the minds of disbelievers, k
It contains the best of the experiments of Dr. |?
Robert Hare, Professor of Chemistry at the j>
University of Pennsylvania, the inventor of Is
the Hare’s galvanic battery and of the oxyhy- K
drogen blowpipe. The article explains, by k
the aid of diagrams, the little machines he |>
made which were beyond the control of the Is
medium, yet were worked by spirits, who k
gave intelligent messages by means of the |>
apparatus. Psychic Facts also contains some IS
of the best experiments made by Mr. William I)
Crookes in the presence of Mr. D. D. Home, k
illustrated by numerous engravings, copied by P
permission of Mr. Crookes from his work on |)
the subject. Another article is by Mr. C. P. K
Varley, F.R.S., giving a general review of the |(
phenomena of Spiritualism personally wit- P
nessed by him. The chief Report on Spirit- |>
ualism of the Committee of the Dialectical |<
Society, as well as the report of one of its sub- |<
committees, is reprinted in this book by per- j;
mission. Some of the most remarkable psycho- p
graphic phenomena attested by Mr. Serjeant K
Cox are given, as well as some extraordinary j?
psychical phenomena observed in Germany, |>
by Professor Ztjllner. Captain R. P. Burton’s |>
account of his seances with the Davenport js
Brothers is given, and Lord Lindsay’s article H
quoted from The Spiritualist, describing ex- ])
periments in relation to Reichenbach’s mag- IS
netic flames and other phenomena. Mr. j<
Alfred Russel Wallace’s' experiences at a j?
seance are given, also a description of powerful
spiritual manifestations by Dr. A. Butlerof, K
Professor of Chemistry in the University of k
St. Petersburg. Slate-writing experiments |?
attested by Mr. Epes Sargent, the American j)
author, are published in Psychic Facts, like- |j
wise Dr. Eugene Crowell’s valuable statistical j(
article on u Spiritualism and Insanity.” An j?
account by J. W. Edmonds, Judge of the j;
Supreme Court, New York, of the way in |s
which his daughter when controlled by spirits K
would converse with foreigners in languages >
she did not know in her normal state, is also jS
published in the book. There are other inter- Is
esting articles in Psychic Facts, and a chapter j<
giving elementary general information about l!>
June 25, 1880,
Spiritualism, for the benefit of inquirers into
whose hands the work may fall. The price
of the book is five shillings, post free, and
early copies will be ppsted to purchasers in
the rotation in which their remittances are
received.
TRANSCENDENTAL PHYSICS.
Psychic Facts will be followed a few days
later by Transcendental Physics, containing
Professor Zollner’s experiments and some of
his philosophical speculations, translated from
his works by Mr. C. C. Massey. The book is
a large one, richly illustrated by various full
page and double page engravings. It is al¬
together unique, no book of the same general
character having hitherto been published in
the English language in connection with
Spiritualism. The issue of a large work like
this, is the boldest undertaking in book-print¬
ing yet essayed at The Spiritualist office; in
fact nothing of the kind has been previously
done in England in connection with Spirit¬
ualism, without subscription guarantees in
advance.
Further particulars about it will be pub¬
lished next week.
DR. PURDON’S EXPERIMENTS.
A correspondent, a friend of Mrs. Makdou-
gall Gregory, writes to us from Boston, Mass.,
May 31st:—
u Nearly twenty years ago, I was in con¬
versation with a very eminent physician of
this country who was thoroughly acquainted
with the subject of Spiritualism. Incidentally
he made a remark, which I send to you. ‘ I
knew by his breath that trance supervened.
This breath smelt of urea, which is always the
case when the person becomes possessed, and
this confirms a theory which I have on the
subject.’
“ I understand Dr. Purdon to ask for any
illustration which anybody may have to offer,
in his very curious letter in the Spiritualist.
“ I suppose that mention of urea in con¬
nection with mediumship may confound some
people ; but always facts, even the most un¬
seemly, are good guidance honestly made the
most of, and for the mystery of life itself there
are the words in the Wisdom of Solomon, Chap,
ii. v. 7.”
The new address of Miss Ella Dietz and Mr. Dietz
is 4, The Avenue, Bedford Park, Chiswick, near Lon¬
don.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge is now in Chicago, and the
Spiritualists there are endeavouring to retain her
services in that locality for some time.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 25, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
307
MORE GOOD EXAMPLES OF PSYCHOGRAPHY.
BY THE HON. J. L. o’SULLIVAN, FORMERLY AMERICAN
MINISTER TO THE COURT OF PORTUGAL.
After all my long and yarious experience
in phenomenal Spiritualism, psychography, or
the direct writing by spirits, on surfaces (slate
or paper) to which no mortal hand has access,
seems to me now perhaps the most valuable
manifestation we receive. And for these two
reasons:
1. Because the simplicity of the operation
makes it necessarily so convincing to those
who see and participate in it, (as witness the
conversion of the great G-erman scientific
philosophers through their experiences with
Slade), the whole passing in the open light
before our eyes, while the useful condition of
the absence of all disturbing chemical action of
light upon the spirits, is obtained through the
darkness existing between two slates joined
together.
2. Because the communications thus received
from spirits seem to come direct and un¬
adulterated from them and them alone, unlike
those which come through the writing hand
or the speaking tongue of even an entranced
medium; since in these latter cases neither
the spectators nor the medium can be sure
how much of the communication comes from
the extraneous inspiring or u controlling ”
mind, or how much from that of the medium
who gives expression to it, and whose brain
may discolor or refract what passes through it,
as glass acts on the light it transmits.
Take Dr. Crowell’s last book for example,
in which we read detailed accounts of life in
the future spheres so strangely material—how
can we know that these are much more than
translations or reflections from his medium’s
(Dr. Kenney’s) own theories and imaginations
honestly given by him as communications from
spirits ?
The appearance of good new psychographic
mediums, and striking cases of psychography,
are therefore worthy of being recorded in the
pages of the Spiritualist.
The well known and universally respected
Dr. J. B. Buchanan and myself held, on the
20th inst., a private stance in this city, with a
young man named Alex. Phillips, for the ex¬
press purpose of testing his psychographic
mediumship. Mr. Phillips is twenty-tbree
years of age, Scotch by family, Irish by birth,
and American by residence from his childhood.
He is as yet but little known, and as we were
to publish the results, we were specially strict
and vigilant in regard to the perfectly test
|>j conditions of the seance. All our three test-
<| ing trials were highly successful. After these
(j we continued to communicate with the spirits
)| present through a series of questions prepared
)j beforehand, and put by us mentally, and the
s| mere answers of yes or no returned by the
<i spirits. Of these I say nothing, since they
I>! involved no evidence, nor anything of a test
| character. To this I will make only one ex-
| ception. One of my requests (unspoken) was
j that they should explain to me the truth re-
| specting the conception and birth of Christ.
| To this I received the immediate answer,
J written like a flash by the hand of the medium
h backward, i.e. beginning at the last letter of
)j the sentence and ending with the first, so that
>| I could read it straightforward in the ordinary
<| way : “ You have already been informed and
<| impressed on that subjects u Do you mean
>| that the theory which I explained to Dr.
V; Buchanan on our way coming here this even-
<| ing was correct?” u Yes.” Any of your
?| readers interested in this may refer to my
letter published in the Spiritualist, of March
sj 30th, 1877; in regard to which I may add
(\ that on several other occasions through dif-
?! ferent mediums, spirits purporting to bear
>j high names have confirmed that same theory
j to me, and it is in fact so strongly impressed
<! on my mind that I may say that I believe it
j as fully as I can believe anything not ab-
>| solutely proved, and resting only on the
Sj authority of invisible intelligences claiming to
?j be advanced spirits.
I now come to the three test manifestations,
Sj which it is my main purpose to communicate
sj to you, as having just occurred with the
<j psychographic medium, Phillips.
1. We sat at a small table at one end of the
)j room, the medium, Dr. Buchanan and myself.
Sj Three slates (two of small size and one large)
<j and some sheets of writing paper were on the
?j table. We thoroughly sponged and dried the
Sj slates, and laid the two small slates flat on
sj the table, the one on the other, the medium
?| laying his two hands on them at one end, and
>j I mine at the other. In a few moments he
j raised them up to rest them on my right
<! shoulder, both of us still holding them tight
?! together without my having quit my hold of
?j them for an instant. There was no pencil
I between them. Presently I heard faint sounds
sj from them, they being now close to my ear.
j The others heard them also. They resembled
| rather muffled sounds of strokes and ticks than
j the scratching of a pencil. A signal announced
] that it was done, and we opened the slates.
308
THE SPIR
On one of them was the following verse, j <
written continuously and without punctuation.
It is I who break it up into lines according to |j
the rhymes : 1
Q-od, that made earth and heaven, , ! <
Darkness and light,
Who the day for toil hath given, j,
For rest the night,
May thy angels guard, defend us,
Slumber sweet thy mercy send us,
Holy dreams and hopes attend us,
This live-long night. i<
There was no signature, but having recog- |/
nised certain raps long familiar to me, I asked, j)
“This is you, is it not ?” ft Yes” “You, K
mother?” “ Yes,” (strongly).*
2. After copying and thoroughly sponging j;
and drying the slates, we again joined them js
together and the medium (under our strict H
watch by the strong gaslight of a chandelier) ! <;
laid them under a chair at the other end of j)
the room, about fifteen feet distant. He laid |j
at the same time alongside of them an open K
piece of paper containing flour, saying that l|
“ they sometimes threw the flour on the top |>
of the slate.”" He returned at once to the |s
table and we all watched the slates, open to K
our full view. A few minutes having passed |<
with no signal to us, the medium remarked, I)
“ Perhaps the gaslight strikes down too strong js
on them,” and he threw a piece of black muslin k
over the front of the chair, though the slates ! ?
now screened from the direct impact of the j;
light were still fully exposed to our view from js
where we sat and observed. In a few mo- j<
ments raps on the table announced that it was k
done. Ho flour had been strewn on the ]>
upper slate. But inside we found the lower js
slate covered with writing. As before, no jc
pencil had been put between the slates. Upon j /
the writing five large marks, in flour, evidently j >
of the ends of a thumb and four fingers, were I s
impressed upon the slate aftei the writing, so K
that I had to blow and gently brush the flour j?
away to read the parts of words it covered, j;
And the writing was in six distinct communi- js
cations as follows : two being in Latin; one in Is
French; one in Italian; one in unknown j?
antique oriental character, not Hebrew, though j;
there! was a prodominance of the square form js
in the letters; and the last in English, and K
signed “ M. O’Sullivan,” my mother’s name j|
(known only to me) being Mary:
Rmticus expectat dum defluat amnis, at ille. j)
Labiiur et labetur in onine volubiliscevum. js
La mart est plus aisee sans y penser que la pensee de la j S
mort sans pint. ' ' ‘ ’f l(
Smpre il mat non vien per nocere j ^
ITUALI8T. June 25, 1880
(The next was in the nnintellig'ible antique oriental
characters).
Damnant quod non intelligunt.
The remembrance of these things will perhaps prove
a source of pleasure. (Signed) M. O’Sullivan.
The translations of thb above are as follows :
The countryman watches till the river shall flow
away, but it flows and will flow whirling on through
all time.
Death is easier to bear without the thought of it,
than the thought of death without danger of i t.‘
Misfortune comes ever to us, not to do us real injury.
Men condemn what they do not understand.
It is a curious small circumstance that in
the two hexameters, Rusticus, &c., which is
a quotation, I forget from whom—there were
two faults of Latinity, which I have corrected
by substituting dum for ut, and cevum for
annum. The spirit who wrote on the inside
of these closed slates, at a distance of fifteen
feet from anybody still in the flesh, made pre¬
cisely two such small mistakes as he might
easily have made off-hand while in the flesh ;
nor did I notice them till on reperusal next
morning.
On the flour contained in the open paper
we found the impress of the same finger marks
which had been laid on the slate after the
writing, and partially covering some of the
words.
3. For the third test the medium suggested
that we should now try for writing on paper.
Drk Buchanan accordingly tore a small bit
(about 2i by H inches) from a large sheet of
blank paper and laid it between two slates,
which he and the medium then held together
on the table, in the same manner as in the
first test. He did not expect more than per¬
haps a name or a word or two on so small a
bit of paper. No lead pencil was placed
between the slates. Yet on opening them
there was the little bit of paper (which fitted
to the sheet from which it was torn) covered
with lead pencil writing. I have it now
before me. The letters were small and close,
and some of them at first not very distinct.
I puzzled a little over it until it flashed on
mer what it was, and then the whole was
clearly legible.' The moment I announced
it there was an explosion of raps, and also a
small musical instrument on a shelf was thrown
strongly down to the opposite end of the floor,
the whole being evidently an expression of
pleasure on the part of the invisibles present
at its being understood. It was nothing more
nor less than a translation into Latin of a
familiar childish verse:
309
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 25, 1880
Mioa, mica, parva stella, j;
Miror qucenam vis tam bella,
Hplendens eminens in illo,
(Alto) velut gemma ccelo.
A curiously close and pretty rendering in j>
Latin of V
Twinkle, twinkle, little star, K
How I wonder what you are,
Shining there ahoye so high,
Like a diamond in the sky.
It was signed Dr. Buchanan. My friend, |s
whose father also liad been a “ Doctor,’* said |<
that his father understood Latin, but that it |?
was very little like him to have written this. {;
I reminded him how several learned scholars K
had amused themselves with translating K
nursery rhymes and popular songs into Latin ]/
and Grreek, (raps of assent) and that spirits j>
when coming into our sphere or plane to com- K
municate with us sometimes seemed to enjoy a j<
little pleasantry and wit, as well as we do I)
(volley of raps).
As two syllables were wanting to the last Is
line to complete its symmetry with the rest, I k
have taken the liberty of adding the word j)
** Alto” which I presume to have been an acci- ]>
dental omission.
The medium told us that he did not know a !c
word of Latin, nor of French or Italian ; and !>
all that could be judged from intercourse with K
him confirmed the probability of this. And js
even if he were a Mezzofantian polyglot, how k
could he have had anything to do with the !)
writing of those languages between closed jS
slates at a distance of fifteen feet.
If Messrs. Lankester and Donkin have sur- K
vived the mortification they must have reaped j)
from the experiences of Zollner and the other j)
Leipsic Professors with Slade, or if they should is
do me the honor of reading the present letter, j?
I beg them, with my compliments, to keep in D
mind that the above various writings in Latin, |s
French and Italian, as well as English, were K
given under the strictly test conditions j?
described, conditions absolutely conclusive |>
against fraud on the medium’s part,or delusion Is
on ours. ' . js
I may add before concluding, that one other k
curious phenomenon occurred in the course of |>
the evening, substantially the same as that js
exhibited by the Philadelphia medium, W. H. js
Powell. I observed Mr. Phillips holding his I?
index finger up in the air, and then flourish- Is
ing it about in random circling movements on js
the slate, but no marks resulting on the slate. K
He repeated this several times, and at last j)
circling marks on the slate, as though pro- j>
duced by white chalk, followed the movements |J
of his finger. I then closely examined his
finger, and found nothing but its soft smooth
skin without a trace of chalk or any other
foreign substance ; yet on his then holding it
up in the air, and waving it to and fro a
moment, it did again make circling marks on
the slate as though there were a bit of chalk
on if. There was nothing concealed beneath
the nail, and the finger was at quite an acute
angle to the slate. He said that it was an ex¬
periment he was trying for the first time. He
did not form words or letters, as Powell un¬
doubtedly does, but only random sweeping
circular marks, but it was evident that he could
as easily have written words. There is another
medium now in Kew York, as I am assured,
who can hold her hand up in the air, palm up¬
ward, and withdraw it with the hollowed
palm filled with fresh blood. It would seem
that the spirits through their subtle chemistry
can form this and other substances out of the
atomic elements in the room, or drawn from the
human bodies present. The formation at the
end of the finger of the substance with which
Powell is able to write on a slate is doubtless by
an analogous process. It is certain that his
“ control ” (called Tecumseh) can form it not
only on his finger, whether naked or gloved)
but also on the finger of any of the spectators
male or female, which he takes between his
fingers and then writes with it as though he
were holding and wielding a pencil of chalk.
I have seen him do this, and several of my
friends have had their fingers thus utilised by
him. It seemed that some spirit control”
was doing the same thing for Phillips. Bub
as this was a purely physical phenomenon, and
as I had not witnessed nor heard of anything
interesting or instructive being thus written
by Powell—it had little interest for me in
Phillips; and as we were occupied with other
matters we did not carry it further. Without
disparaging the value of the merely physical
manifestations (such as that of the generation
of a bit of white matter at the end of a finger
by spiritual chemistry), since they are so use¬
ful for early beginners in Spiritualism, they
have long ceased to have much interest for me.
When we have witnessed a hundred real and
certain “ miracles ’’—which are no longer
miracles—further repetitions and mere vari¬
ations cease to surprise or much to interest.
Our knowledge of “ nature ” or the “ laws of
nature” has simply risen and widened a little,
that is all, and these things are no longer
supernatural. For a spirit simply to make
slate marks on the inside of closed slates, or
310
THE SPIRITUALIST. Jttne 25, 1880.
pencil marks on paper placed between them, is
a mere physical manifestation. For it to
write these merely trivial things is better, but
after all not much better. But when we can
receive from them in this certain way direct
and unadulterated intellectual communications,
without filtration through the human mind or
organism of a medium, as related in your
number of 30th March, 1877, already referred
to, then Psychography rises indeed to a mani¬
festation of the highest value and the keenest
interest, and opens out to us vast prospects of
reliable future instruction from the world of
spirits.
New York, 24, West 30th Street, June 3rd, 1880.
EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—Noticing the interest taken by you in
the mesmeric experiments performed by Mr.
Redman, I send you the following account:—
On Tuesday, dune 8th, I was trying a few
experiments on Augustus Louis Johnson, a boy
whom I have had much pleasure in curing of
deafness through mesmerism, when I found he
possessed the faculty of second sight or clair¬
voyance. I submitted many things to him for
examination (not allowing him to come near
them) and he was able to describe them cor¬
rectly in nearly every instance.
On Wednesday, I tried further experiments
and had even more satisfactory results. After
giving him several small articles to describe,
such as lockets, pencil cases, beads and various
other things which he was perfectly successful
with in every case, I produced from my pocket
two photographs. These he described very
minutely, telling me how the hair was done,
style of dress, position of body, &c. I then
determined to test his power still further and
see if he was able to read printing. So I gave
him a paper (a programme of private theatricals)
which to my surprise he read through correctly;
or rather I should say spelt through, for he
does not read well, being only nine years old.
Upon my asking him if he could explain how
it was he could see, he replied he had a bright
streak of light commencing at the back of his
head and continuing down to the root of his
nose where it divided off: each way, terminating
in his eyes. He could not say for certain, but
he thought that was the cause of his sight.
He also said he was conscious of a light in other
parts of his head, and gave me instructions
for improving it. Later on he was able to
see a black outline when an article was held
above his head, but (to use his own words,)
j)j “ It was in a kind of mist,” and although he
]>| could just perceive it, it was very indistinct.
|sj He then complained of being fatigued and re-
K! quested me to bring him to. His eyes were
| tightly shut and bandaged the whole time.
\H G. A. Smith.
Kj 3, Royal Road, Ramsgate.
h!   
THE CURES AT KNOCK.
Father Quick, of Manchester, who recently
|s| paid a visit to Knock, and about whom an
III I exaggerated report was set afloat the other
j day, has written, by way of explanation of the
| facts of the case, the following statement:—
“ I had been suffering some six months
I from prostration of the nerves, the pain
j settling principally in my left arm. I was
| unable to say mass part of this time, but not
R| on account of my. arm solely. I consulted no
|?J doctors beyond my regular advisers. There
i?] was never any question of amputation. I
Kj was told I should recover after a few months’
Kj rest and repose, but, being anxious to continue
Kj my duties, I yielded to an invitation to go to
|>j Knock. I did not expect a miracle; I knew
pi my ailment did not require one. After my
Kj first visit and devotions at Knock, I felt able
j?j to dispense with my armrest or sling, and
pi during my devotions at my third visit I felt
Kj the pain gradually leave my arm, and strength
Kj return. I had gained all I sought. I made
j j an offering of my sling to Our Lady, and
Kj obtained permission from the venerable and
jvj saintly archdeacon to say mass there next
|| morning. I was asked to leave a few lines
as to my cure, but the archdeacon agreed to
pj my suggestion—viz., to wait a short time. I
j<j promised to write in three weeks and send an
Ri attestation, provided the pain did not return.
|>j On leaving Knock I was sent direct to Paris to
Kj inspect the working of several institutions,
Kj which took me a fortnight. It is now over
if three weeks since I left Knock; since then I
11 have suffered much through continuous tra¬
il veiling, and have had consequently a slight
Kj relapse of my pains—hence I cannot yet say
Kj I am cured, but I am considerably better. I
i>j would state my firm belief in the first appari-
|>j tions, and in some of the many miracles said
Rl to have been wrought there. Let us hope
Rj that the time is not far distant when the
p! present humble church will be replaced by
Kj one more worthy, and that the sanctuary of
j/j Our Lady of Knock will equal that of Our
jjj Lady of Lourdes. One of the best means of
j! j attaining this will be, when speaking of Knock,
j j 1 not to exaggerate, but give simple, telling facts
THE SPIKITUALIST. 311
June 25, 1880.
—abundance of these are not wanting; this R
will oyercome the incredulity of Catholics and w
the prejudices of non-Catholics. I would say |)
to all afflicted—Have confidence, and go to Is
Our Lady of Knock, and you will be relieved.
I received more than my faith and unworthi- R
ness merited.”—Weekly Register and Catholic
Standard, June 19th, 1880.
 +  |)
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express i)
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its \)
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; copies I?
should he kept hy the writers. Preference is given to letters which j (
are not anonymous.']   l(
THE STEINWAY HALL LECTURES
Sir,—Will you [please announce in the Spiritualist 1
that I shall sail for America on July 25th, to be absent K
two months, and that Steinway Hall will then re-open R
the first Sunday in October. J. W. Fletcher. |<
22, Gordon Street, W.O., June 21st. IS
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS. K
Sir—It is said a lady’s letter is not perfect without a jS
postscript; so I send you one, as there are two or three i)
things it would have been as well to have mentioned i(
in my letter to you. There were some details I could K
not give except to a medical man, but those I gave j)
were sufficient for your purpose, and as much, probably, | (
as your readers could swallow at once. But I might j>
have mentioned want of sleep and coldness of the feet. f(
I rarely slept more than from three to four hours, and js
at broken intervals, and got up more weary than when D
I went to bed; now, I sleep six or seven hours, and get K
up refreshed. My feet were never warm summer or K
winter, day or night; ever since I began the treatment j)
they have been comfortably warm: I have never all K
the winter sat by the fire to warm them. “ The blood j)
is the life.” The doctor seems to vitalise the blood, R
hence these results. But chiefly I wished to tell you K
that according to my experience and observation of i)
others under the treatment, the current will not pass R
through silk. This is an important feature in the treat- K
ment, for the investigation of the learned in determining j;
what the current is. Also, many object to medical R
rubbing because of the undressing and the contact of IS
the operator’s hand upon the body of the patient. In R
Dr. Mack’s treatment there is no undressing—no con- K
tact except upon the hands and head; all the other j)
manipulations are done outside the ordinary clothing. R
E. 0. Maodonell. js
12, Upper Baker Street, London, N.W., 22nd June, 1880.
CHARACTERISTICS OF SEANCES. js
Sir—In the ranks of Spiritualism I know of none i)
more faithful honest and upright, or whose experience, R
opinions and writings, are morejworthy of respectful is
consideration than those of Mr. 0. Reimers. The great j)
interest, the constant and watchful care exhibited by j?
this gentleman over almost everything connected with is
our “ism” are to me amazing—ever to the front to j/
defend our cause from attack from any quarter, yet i(
always more inclined to protect the erring one than to j)
blame. I rather expected, and was pleased to see, his R
protest in last week’s Spiritualist against the “ blunders j\
and misrepresentations ” contained in Mr. James j)
Campbell’s paper to be found in the Spiritualist of R
June 11th, page 286. If the expressions there attri- js
buted to Mr. Campbell are true, it seems to me that no i)
censorious repudiation of them can be. too strong for R
the purpose, because they are not only false but they is
exhibit a needless and wanton desire to wound the j)
feelings of other people, hundreds of whom are quite
up to Mr. Campbell’s social position and capacity, and
who have laboured quite as much for Spiritualism.
The well-known impartiality of the Spiritualist news¬
paper induces me, Sir, to believe that you will allow me
also to enter my protest against the above, especially
as Mr. Campbell seems himself to anticipate that
objections will be taken to what he has stated, for in
the concluding words of his paper does he not howl at
all who may differ from him, that he cares not one
straw for their opinion?—an expression and style
which prevades the whole paper; a style too which I
and many friends who approve of all I have written
above, think could only have been adopted from a desire
for notoriety rather than reputation. John Rouse.
Jane 22nd.
LOUISE LATEAU.
It is a saddening illustration of the instabi¬
lity of human affairs that a young lady en¬
dowed with the somewhat exceptional faculty
of performing miracles, who, but a few weeks
ago, stood high in ecclesiastical favour and
was fully justified in aspiring to the post¬
mortem honours of canonisation, should have
suddenly fallen into such disgrace with Holy
Church that sentence of excommunication has
been pronounced upon her, to the utter anni¬
hilation of her prospects of promotion in
another world. To this pass has the famous
Louise Lateau been brought by her steadfast
refusal to acknowledge the recently-appointed
Bishop of Tournai as the rightful occupant of
that episcopal see. Life, even for miracle-
workers, is full of ups and downs; and it has
availed this saintly Belgian virgin nothing
that she has demonstrated, upon several
occasions, her capacity for exhibiting on her
own person the sacred stigmata of the Cruci¬
fixion, as well as for abstaining from every
description of refreshment for three weeks at
a stretch. The authenticity of these wonders,
respecting which Canon Majunke wrote so
thrilling a book at the time of their achieve¬
ment, remains unimpugned by the high
ecclesiastical authorities whose displeasure
Louise has incurred. She herself, however,
although her ability to exude blood from her
forehead, hands and side, is stated to be un¬
impaired, has been formally anathematised
for heretical disobedience to the Papal decree
dismissing Bishop Dumont from his diocese—
on the not unreasonable ground that his
Grrandeur is a confirmed maniac—and ap¬
pointing another prelate in his stead. But
yesterday, so to speak, almost worshipped as
a saint, and now smitten with the blighting
curse of the church, Louise Lateau, the
stigmatised stigmatic, may fairly be regarded
as the most prodigious anomaly of the day.—
Daily Telegraph.
312
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 25, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
the late Wm.'Gbkooby, 9£.D., F .R.S.E., Profctaor ~qf Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
. Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
file cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
<feS jpMMssd, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. past free.
j SI
K=
CONTENTS.
OHAPTEE I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
• -Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTEE IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
OH APTEE IIISympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Beading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTEE IV :—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes —
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Sc., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
knd of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
of Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental} Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
OHAPTEE VHI s—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—^Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTEE IX s—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Qdyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis'Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological,' Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X s—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft-t-The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI t—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion On Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Withouf^Sug^estidn-i-Cases—Df. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration-Major Buckley’s MethOd-^Oales—The Md'fife Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazedat—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER xm :—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Niue Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sldep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
i-Phreno-Hesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Ca'Ses—^Perception of Time—Cases s Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cates—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
i. airvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
_ CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Syiritualitt Newspaper Branch Office, S3, Museum-street, London.
if
||
;)!
:\ :
Kj
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse ■which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena* occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
" Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same-
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles, in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
Only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household,.and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface.11 Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in' singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean *• Yes,” one means. “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given1 in answbr, then say, “If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell ns out a message P ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of ether forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class ot
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the - contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium' is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric-influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lowei; their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
June 25, 1880,
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
m
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WOELD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the, divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting puniskmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pricisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
jpALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
t. in Spiritualism, by Christian Refiners. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings.: Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill a/nd Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the authpr,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
Researches in the pheno¬
mena OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes; F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
IV/TEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
1Y± AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Sviritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s ” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London; S. E. Catty, 12. Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion of SPIRITUALISTS;. 38 ^ Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury.' This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to seances, <Stc., 'apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, dally. ’Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
DARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, feS S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.   ■  ‘
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
oldest journal devoted to tlfe Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Mofitgomefy-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich; business' manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a latge corps' of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family-
paper, containing forty Columns of interesting and
instructive reading, etribracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15p per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C
Price 3 s, 6d. Imperial'b'vo.' Cloth; led talgiS; Post ires
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.” .
A Collection of choice poems and prfieiessays given
through medi'umship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
aro.unacquainte'd with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, give;,
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Giveh
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. Y. Tappan-
liichinond,
II. —The .Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
1Y.—Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V.—The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
YI.—Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced, The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period, By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. -
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”.
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —ReSurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein. !
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”-
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. / By Baroness Adelma
Von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand). 1
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone..
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. BurkeJ
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies; D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims; and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doe, Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital. •
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. 1—A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent. •
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.” 1
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfalien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—-Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury. '
XXXIX,—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder,
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Ejnq .Baker.
XLII.—Epigrairis. By GetUId Massey.
XLHI.^Some of the difficulties of the-Clergy if.
Relation to Spiritualism. . By Lisette Makdougal!
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer, By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33.
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the MCdicaTAcademic
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin ain
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerisr
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society fo
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
‘The ' Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, „ 33.
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface descrihing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
I X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX, The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
,73 EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JJ_9/ psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price; 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve d
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable t
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Parmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I:—The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III ;i-The'’1 Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and, Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will he sent by the Author on reefeipt of Sfdmps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akemiafi-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, .Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions , (
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME, .
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may he obtained at The Spiritiialist Newspaper Branch
Office, price • 1
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR 'DISTRIBUTION I AT PUBLIC MEETINGS, ■
And in localities where medififiis and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist sayst-^Cohtehtion about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private famihes. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevorably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides; those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
tliq ffiets bre not true, ,'If evOry Spiritualist makes it
Binding upCfi himself't6; ‘ dtdp'about ” or distribute
five hundred of the leafjet^'.fcontainiiig instructions how
to form spirit irclhs fit h6ihe, fhe Whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such anumher 6f
mediums wilt spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated tc
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 25, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
ENO S FRUIT SALT
firery Travelling Trunk and Household in the ‘World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a IJealth-
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventative and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face. Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,'.Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S ERUIT SALT.—From the
'Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“ I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
•world.”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.'
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach', poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
END’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT! t! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from 4isease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de I*' S’aix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. Ke is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
m the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Huhphrets, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fall to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked "ENO’S FMUIT SALT.” Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. fid.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatch am, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The]Morning\
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song or
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The. Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12. Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30, The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book inareview nearly a column long, says;—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our commoo
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lossy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and Ihe short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. Tht
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rathe:
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account oi
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BI RK B E O K B ANK.—
Southampton Buildings, Chancery Lane.
Current Accounts opened according to the usual
practice of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the
minimum monthly balances when not drawn below
£25. No Commission charged for keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
per cent. Interest, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings,-and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
31st Mareh, 1880.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED'FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
OW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building. or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Lunacy law reform
ASSOCIATION, 64', Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 p m. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe and S. T. Blackwell, Esq., Bamster-an-
Law, Hon. Seed. . .
rpHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
jL OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6$d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
SlMUI.TANEOUBXiY WITNESSED BV THE AUTHOR AND.
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston,U.S.
“Asa dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and'
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall n ot now enter. We
will only say that ms descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he .a p¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
Price 6d.; post free 7id.; cloth.
Prize Essats.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association oi-
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S. A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
CONTENTS.
The Spirits of the Departed   301
Psychonomy or Spiritualism. By Frank Podmore,
B.A. (Oxon), F.C.S.  1   302
Statuvolence and Spiritualism    305
Mr. Husk’s Mediumship       305
New Books on Spiritualism........     306
Dr. Purdon’s Experiments     306
More Good Examples of Psychography. By The
Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan       307
Experiments in Mesmerism. ByG. A. Smith  310
The Cures at Knock       310
Correspondence:—The Steinway Hall Lectures ... 311
Healing by Laying on of Hands 311
Characteristics 61 Seances ...... 311
Louise Lateau     311
Paragraph:—Archdeacon Dunbar   304
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
