IlGlSTERED AS A KLYSFAPEK
S>[f)
JOlIS^KS^ 0^ ‘P^YCiS0I<GGcldSl<
©1* ©fofst ICttospp): hmmm toi% Spiritealisnt in &xmt §rifi«it,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosquc 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia,
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.,
NEW YORK: 31, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light ” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 346.—(Vol. xiv.—No. 15.) LONDON : FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Euntents.
Sources of Happiness ...          169
The History of the Movement Known as Modern Spirit¬
ualism and the Facts and Theories Connected with it.
By J. A. Campbell, President of the Cambridge Uni¬
versity Society for Psychological Investigation 169
Poetry:—Near Apart   ...  172
A Ghost at a Club-House ... ... ...   ... ... 172
Clairvoyance and Physics   173
Private iS'etmces ...   >.. ... ...    ... 174
The Thirtv-first Anniversary of Modern Spiritualism ... 174
Another Method of Attempting to Prove Spirit Presence.
By Charles Blackburn     ... ... 174
The Psychological Ideas in the Sacred Poetry of Oriental
Nations. (Concluded.) By C. J. Plumptre, Lecturer
on Public Speaking at King’s College  ... 175
An Evening with Mrs. Girling 176
Spiritual Phenomena in Cape Town. By Berks T. Hutch¬
inson   ... ..:. ... ... ... 178
Spontaneous Apparitions ...   ... ... ... 179
To Correspondents... ... •     ...180
Paragraphs:—An Address by Mr. James Campbell, 172;
A Good Worker ...    ... ...: 179
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record oj the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
SsTiTt*! tnnh Qvn
Published weekly, price twopence.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe: it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions ui its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present fime,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgensteln (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ;• His imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrisier-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain: Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.): Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat:Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre AksaKof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanisl as (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author oi
the*’Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling*
oury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,‘M.D.‘(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Panl’s-churchyard, E.G.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio. Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-PhilosopJiical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
pap er Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &e., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &e.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
, any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 8s.
Loudon: J. E, Catty 12, Aye Maria-lane, E.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours of
2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Saturday,
when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m, and 6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR APRIL.
Tuesday, Is#.—So'rde Committee at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee at
5.30 p.m.
Friday, &h., and succeeding Fridays (except Friday,
11th. — Experimental Research Com¬
mittee at 7 p.m.
Monday, 1th.—General Purposes Committee at 4.30 p.m.
Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Mr.lMorell Theobald, “ Experi¬
ences in the Home Circle, No. II.”
Tuesday, 8th.—Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Monday, 21st.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by the Rev. W. Miall “ On
Exoteric Observations on Spiritualism."
Wednesday, 88th.—Soir§e at 38,!Great Russell-street. Music,
Conversation, and Refreshments. Open
to members and friends. Admission, Is.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Rooms at 88, Great Russell- street, will close on Thursday
evening, April 10th, and will re-open on Tuesday, April 15th.
C. A. BURKE, Secretai’y.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
J. W. FLETCHER,
AT
STEINWAY HALL,
Lower Seymour-street, Portman-square.
Cavendish Booms being too small to accommodate the
number of people desirous of hearing Mr. Fletcher's Lectures,
he has secured the above named Hall for one year, and will
commence his Lectures there on Sunday, April 6th, at 7.30 p.m.
A dmission free, as before, but as many prefer having seats of
their own, they can be obtained of Miss C. Leslie-Younge, 32,
Fairfax-road, N.W., or of Mr. Fletcher at the Hall. Price of
secured seats, one guinea and ten shillings per quarter,
according to location. Single admission, reserved seat, 2s. 6d.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 3s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the lest quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.’W
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billingtop, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon. ,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Oox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co. London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb. 8.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.’
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislingbury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism."
March 17.—Mr. Calder, “ The New Era.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “ Experiences in the Home
Circle,” No. 2.
April 21.—The Rev. W. Miall, “ Exoteric Observation in Spirit¬
ualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May 19.—
June 2.—Mr. G. F. Green, “ Spiritualism and its Teachings, in
their relation to Problems of Government.”
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., ‘‘Review of the Session.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW
Is now issued Monthly at 6d., or 7s. per annum,
sent free by post.
Post Office orders payable to the publishers,
Hay Nisbet and Co., 52, Ropework-Lane, Glasgow
CONTENTS EOH APRIL.
Ourselves and Science ; by Dr. Hitchman—Spiritual Mani¬
festations ; by Thos. Brevier—What is it ? by Rev. J. P.
Hopps—Garland of Legends, from Montalembert's Monks of
the West; by A. M. W.—A Woman's Word on Divine Judg¬
ment ; by J. W. F.—Inspiration, No. III.: The Myth of the
Logos; by Mrs, De Morgan—William Howitt (with two
engravings); by S. C. Hall—A Student's Sea Story; by Mrs.
H. B. Stowe—At Vesper; by T. S.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Glasgow: H. Nisbet and Co., 52, Rope work-lane.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludoate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ac., Ac.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re-
payable'on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m,
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
TUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION
J 64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from lO'to 4
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 11, 1879.
purrrsH national association of
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Ca'der, Esq., 1, Hcre/ord-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Viee-Presidents.
Colemnn. Benjamin, 1 Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
P'itz-Oer»ld, Mrs . 10, CambHrlge-street, Hyde-park. W,
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.s.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
8.w.
Honywood Mrs.. <52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenoken, Henry D., M.lt.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, itose-villa. Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
mad, Souih Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaee, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belner.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Neweastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, E., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Ontram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
IMnney, F A., 24, St Ann s-square, Manchester
Bonwick, ,T.. F.R.G.S.. Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Pswe, N Fabyan, .5, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Fernands, T. H . 7. Oherstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J C , Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton R , 34, Walnut-street, Oheethnm Manchester.
Fltfc Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. fi Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A.. Gmve-road. New Southgate,N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos.. M D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton. Miss, 20. Deiam°re-crescent. Westbonrne-square, W.
Hunt. Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart, Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Mnltby, Mrs., 01, Gon er-«treet, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, .1 J., Kim Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stairton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Peart e, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C.. ML Harnur-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill. W. C., 3. Blandford-square, N.W.
Relircrs. Christian. 47, Morning ton-mad Regent’s-nark.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford
Theobald, Morel 1, 92, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M„ 62, Granville-park, Blackheatli, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Turner, J. P., A venue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Wit hail, Miss H.. 1, The Elms, St. John’s-rond, Brixton, S.W.
Wlthall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Hon-Jrary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Ke nsington, S.W_
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq, Morell Theobald, Esq.
Secretary.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople,;
Tlie Baron Vcn Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelms Von Vay, Gonobitz, t el Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz. A.istria.
The Baroness Guidenstnbbc, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmleld. Pinneherg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veb, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta,
lames Mylne, Esq , Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Elko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street. Carlton, Melbourne
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street. Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Ecu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq , M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M D., 196, Clinton-avcnue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bouriere--, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G> L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa,
j. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia.U.S.A,
J. IT, Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de I’Enrope,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson. Memphis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre.Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Brnxeres.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11;Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs. Cayuga Co..New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel dc TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul. Trieste. Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epc-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Mo«tgomerj*-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W. _
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasae, near Vienna.
M. Coehet. Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
AfVica.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., S3, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Procbaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. S6c., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Soeiedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez. 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Socledad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. For
terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Government prosecutions for
MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“ Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Ho’n. John Bright, M.P., and others.
Forty pp., Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state oj trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pabt L
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Past II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVlII. My Spirit Home.—XIX “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love XXII. “For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin.—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—0CXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Heaven opened-, or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE, COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It shows
(we think successfully) that every form of medinmship, now so
familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of
identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrowing
parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Oolby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner is a first-class, eight-
yageu in.Lu y paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instruc ve reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of sp ritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssagt department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c^ &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
fil, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. QMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
0 engagements to deliver public Or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 35, Biurton-road, Clap-
ton-park, E.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the flrst instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday eveniug. Engagements can be made
by letter sent to the above address.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
C1URATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
/ ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 jears
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
ANNIE LOOMIS, previous to withdrawal
from the Profession, can be consulted for one month,
at 2, V(mon-place, Bloomsbury. Hours 12 to 5. Free con¬
sultations to the poor, Saturday.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
Xjl. ITALIA—Rivista Psicologioa di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15.h of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Boglno, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SociiU
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
►SYCHISCBE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandbe Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Hutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings,
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
on
be
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, j£3 per week
each ; or for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
aonnerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s- road.
m
«
eJAs
SJf*
xt{ |)rixrgq$$ txl mb tJ
I\fo. 340.—Volume 'Fourteen; Number Firteejsi.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 11th, 1879.
SOURCES OF HAPPINESS.
Although man, by taking thought, cannot add a cubit to
the stature of his body, he may by that method add consider¬
ably to the stature of his mind. The majority of mankind
rush after certain prizes in life, it being the general custom
so to do, unconsciously taking for granted that the gaining
of them will bring happiness. Yet a glance at the inner
lives of those who have been successful in the race, reveals at
once that in perhaps nineteen cases out of twenty, the hap¬
piness supposed to be gained is a myth. The home misery
of those who have sacrificed true affections and a clear con¬
science, to gain rank or social precedence, is appalling, and
men who have destroyed all that was noble in their nature,
in pursuit of the coarser bauble of material wealth, profit
little by the debasement of their own souls, and too often
plunge their children into lives of uselessness, surrounded by
grievous temptations.
In this month’s number of The Nineteenth Century, Mr.
A. R. Wallace does good public service by raising the
question whether certain methods of benefiting a nation
materially, may not reduce its general happiness. ** Admit¬
ting,” he says, “ that free trade will necessarily benefit a
country materially, it does not follow that it will be best for
that country to adopt it. Man has an intellectual, a moral,
and an aesthetic nature ; and the exercise and gratification of
these various faculties is thought by some people to be of as
much importance as cheap cotton, cheap silk, or cheap
claret.” He then pictures a beautiful country, with its hills,
woodlands, flowers, and sparkling streams, whose inhabitants
are all seized with an irreligious craze to sacrifice everything
to get rich. They give up healthy outdoor occupations, dig
up vast quantities of coal, make iron enough to supply half
the world, and in getting rich live in <c black countries,” in
the dirty streets and alleys of overcrowded cities, and in
default of their former places take to vice and to drink. He
might have added that they write their manifold miseries in
the lines of their faces.
The legislature is primarily responsible for depopulating
Ireland of several millions of inhabitants, and driving the
rural workers of England and Wales into great cities,
where the miseries of men increase, and the race deterio¬
rates, as shown by Dr. Beddoe’s statistics. Instead of
letting land be bought and sold like other property, instead
of establishing free trade in land and abolishing legal im¬
pediments, delays, and expenses, every attempt is made to
bring the land into the hands of a few individuals who
watch industrious people working on it, and absorb the
produce of their labour from generation to generation by
ceaselessly raising the rents. Fortunately, the rotten
system is breaking up, and farms are to be let by the hun¬
dred with nobody to take them. In France, the great
mass of the population is much better off than in England,
and happier, because of its more honest system of land
tenures. The men who cultivate the ground should, as a
general rule, be the men who own it, and it should be as
unusual to sell a house without the ground it stands upon,
as to sell a carriage without wheels.
In one sense the populace causes its own sufferings. If
through ignorance or lack of independence it permits
abuses, it gets as good government as it deserves.
Those people are happiest who are superior to their
position, instead of worshippers thereof. Those who care
nothing either for their social position or wealth, except
as an instrument which they use constantly for the unsel¬
fish purpose of making the world better and happier than
they found it, are as angels of light compared with their
neighbours who as slavishly adore the position won for
them by somebody else, as a beadle adores the magnificent
dress provided for him by the parish authorities.
j j THE HISTORY Of THE MOVEMENT KNOWN AS MODERN
! I SPIRITUALISM AND THE FACTS AND THEORIES
I ! CONNECTED WITH IT.*
! )j BY J. A. CAMPBELL, PRESIDENT OP THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY SOCIETY
: J ! FOR PSYCHOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION.
I am this evening about to attempt a by no means
| JI easy task—to give you a short and clear sketch of one
j of the strangest and, allow me to call it, one of the
|(| mightiest movements of modern times—a movement the
: I j effects of which have been felt everywhere, so that literature,
111 theology, even physical science itself, have during some
11| short thirty years all been influenced by it, for the progress
||| of it has been so rapid, and its developments so extra-
! > i ordinary, that to trace them in anything like their natural
11 order would require the patient labour of years, and the
results of such labour would fill volumes, whereas the fear
I of overtaxing your patience limits me to a brief paper, and,
my desire of serving the society, to a concise one. I shall
therefore say but little regarding the origin of so-called
Spiritualism or Psychology, and the progress of it in America;
| the latter term, which our own society prefers to use—has,
| as we shall see presently, arisen only quite recently when
thoughtful men have began to question not the phenomenal
facts, but the construction that insufficient knowledge had
I put upon the facts, proceeding as rapidly as possible. To
! take in order — (1) The facts as they are stated to have
| occurred by credible witnesses in England, most of whom
are still living ; (2) The philosophy that has arisen side by
j side with those facts, this necessarily somewhat broadly,
| to allow for the varying thought of individuals; (3) The
| theories of those who are now influencing the movement;
(4) My own personal thought concerning our present work.
“ From small beginnings are great results ” is a true pro-
| verb indeed, if a trite one. The grain of mustard seed, the
despicable, almost invisible thing, to-day the great tree, pro-
i)! viding lodging for the fowls of the air, and alas, too, for the
1 | brute harpies, to-morrow. Thirty years ago the age had
ji become scientific, so much here on earth, that belief in or
i 11 speculation concerning things invisible, supernatural,fas the
J11 vulgar called them, had faded gradually, and was now almost
|| extinct: men either professed to believe that the age of
j | miracles had ceased, or that such an age had never been; and
| ( the daimon of Socrates and the disturbances in the house of
j | Wesley were classed with the fables of iEsop and temptation
j|j of St. Dunstan, as amiable, and probably unintentional, false-
111 hoods. In America especially, an independent country, with
111 every man’s thought bent upon the Chicago railroad, and his
111 voice occupied in shouting “ Yankee Doodle,” the idyll of the
! 11 free, there was small chance of inspiration, and hardly a
j ji house old enough or aristocratic enough for a family ghost to
| i disturb, and if he did, why Brother Jonathan guessed there
111 were few things that could not be explained by rats, or if not,
j by electricity ; yet one fine morning the cars to the west are
111 crowded, and the strains of freedom are hushed, for the news
| ! has come from Hydesville,’down in Connecticut, of a genuine,
| | unexplainable native ghost, noisily inclined too, and render-
~ijj ing sleep impossible to a matter-of-fact and truly pious
i | j family of citizens who have settled there, knocks gigantic
| j and knocks scarcely audible succeeding each other night after
| I night, and day after day. Farmer Fox only wishes the deuce
| J it would stop, whatever it is, and leave a quiet family alone—
| i he and his wife, and Katie and Margaret. Rats or goblins, or
111 what not, why should it keep on at them ?
Not so thinks Katie, round whom the mysterious knockings
||| are ever loudest, and who can now sleep quite quietly
| | through them. She is a difficult little girl, with quite an
| | extraordinary habit, even in America, of asking the reason
I ji * A paper read before the Cambridge University Society for Psychological Investigation
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 11, 1870.
why and the use in everything; so the matter is conned over
and over in her little brain, till she has hit upon an experi¬
ment. If is rats, it can’t speak; but if it's the devil,
he’s cute, and can. “ Old Hornie ” (rats are unaddressible),
“ when I knock my fingers together twice, you make two
knocks, so." * Two quite triumphant raps on the floor.
“ Well done, old Hornie. Now give three. Mother! mother! it
will talk to me! ” and every day followed long conversations
with it, and it states its name, and tells how.it got murdered,
and where the bones lie, subsequent diggings confirming
the statements. But Farmer Fox has had enough of Hydes-
ville and removes elsewhere; so do the knocks, and wherever
Katie goes and Margaret, it goes too, rapping unceasingly
till the scientific gentlemen are forced to listen, and the
scientific ladies, and the religious gentlemen and the religious
ladies, to find out the imposture and to oust the devil. But
the gentlemen hold the hands of Katie and Margaret, and
their feet, yet on go the raps all round the room; and the
ladies undress them, but find no machinery, while the righ¬
teous can but lament over the coming of the latterdays. But
the common sense of America has got hold of the fact that the
sounds are connected with these two children ; and if so, why
not with them or with their families may not similar power
of evoking old Hornie also reside? and much of America is
speedily sitting round tables to see if the “ spirits ” will
oblige them ; and the tables whirl and so do the brains; and
raps, and noises, and lights, and “ spirit messages follow.”
Very heterogeneous these last. “Do you like cheese”
(from Shelley), and “ God bless you ” (from Voltaire). The
country swarms with “ mediums,” the human channel
through which such things happen apparently, since nought
occurs during their absence, and the excitement grows ever
wilder, and the blasphemy, and the dear spirits countenance
and encourage (some of them) fearful things; but for weal
or for woe mankind has got hold of a new power, or has
begun to realise and comprehend an old one, and will by no
means let the knowledge go.
From America the new doctrine spreads over the world, in
England and France, Germany and Russia; the old table¬
turning that had followed on the discovery by Mesmer and
Deleuze and Reichenbach of forces in the human body, and in
metals and crystals, before undreamed of, was succeeded
now by table lifting and table rapping, people of sober judg¬
ment declared that they received intelligent replies to intel¬
ligent questions by means of such tiltings and rappings, till
a general interest was created throughout our usually phleg¬
matic nation in phenomena, which, whether supernatural or
not, were undeniably very interesting.
Matters had reached this stage when there came to
England, from the other side of the Atlantic, a young man of
Scottish descent and birth, whose family had settled in
America, Mr. Daniel Dunglas Home, and of this young man
strange things were reported in London a few weeks after
his arrival. How at the time of the Hydesville manifesta¬
tions to him also the unknown it had given signs of presence
and of power, so much so that he had been forcibly driven
forth from house and home because the Devil—as his family
deemed the mysterious agent—had terrified and insulted a
clerical prayer-meeting, called for the purpose of his
ejection and entire suppression, by knocking more loudly as
they exorcised more vehemently, shaking the very chairs at
which they knelt—those suppliants. So Mr. Home and Mr.
Home’s manifestations became the rage, increasing: in
marvellousness as time went on, conversions also becoming
numerous. Robert Chambers, William Howitt, Lord Lytton,
Mrs. Barrett Browning, Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall give
credence to the new belief, which is simple enough as
enunciated by the rather fascinating young prophet. “ There
is no death, the spirit world is all around us ; under certain
conditions we may communicate with it; there is no
antagonism to any existing creed; this is not the attempt
to set up a new religion, but is rather confirmatory of the
doctrines taught by all religions. Faith in God and belief
in the immortality of the human soul.” To this belief, in
spite of the strange developments of the movement in
England, and the wild fanaticism of certain Spiritualists, Mr.
Home, the pioneer and founder of English Spiritualism, has
* I am giving the child's own mode of address. There is something quite daring and
pilgrim-fqther like in this facing of Satan.
I ever clung. In broad light Mr. Home is floated in the air
I! -in the presence of many witnesses, among them Lord Dun-
11 raven, Dr. Davies, and Lord Lindsay. He is elongated,
i contracted ; in his presence objects are moved without
| contact, and music is played on no earthly instruments. He
j handles red-hot coals, and is not hurt. This last mani-
I | festation I will describe in the words of an eye-witness,
| Mrs. S. 0. Hall, the well-known and well-beloved lady, who
j has laboured so devotedly and so hard for the bettering of
|! j this poor earth.
j This <(miracle” occurred in my own drawing room. I copy the
j | following details from a letter written by Mrs. Hall to the Earl of
1 Dunraven, and printed by him in his book :—“  Mr. Home rose
L j from his chair, walked slowly to the fireplace, held his hands over the
! i | fire, and then drew out of the fire with his fingers a large lump of red
11 | and blazing coal—not from the top but from the middle of the fire; he
| held it in both hands, advanced to the table at which we were seated,
j and placed the coal, red and blazing as it was, on Mr. Hall’s head,
j1 | ruffling his white hair about it. When it had remained there more than
| a minute he removed it, and offered it to a lady, the wife of a clergyman
who was present. She drew back; Home murmured, ‘Little faith.’
| He then tendered it to me (Mrs. Hall), and placed it on my open hand;
i i I felt it to be warm, but not hot. He did the same by one of our guests,
j | Before he took it back to the fireplace, he put it on a sheet of paper on
j the table; the paper was singed through. There was not a hair of Mr.
1 i Hall’s head singed ; but when he combed it in the morning he combed
[ out about fifty specks of cinder dust the blazing coal had flung off. Two
I * i candles were lighted on the chimneypiece, and gas was burning in the
next room, separated by folding doors that were open.”
Since the advent of Mr. Home, the number of media has
I increased yearly, and so has the folly and the imposture.
| Every spook has become, in the eyes of fools, a divine angel;
| and not even every spook, but every rogue, dressed up in a sheet,
who has chosen or shall choose to call himself a materialised
| “ spirit.” A so-called religion has been founded in which the
\ honour of the most sacred names has been transferred to
the ghosts of pickpockets. Of the characters of which
I divinities, and aof the doctrines taught by them, I shall not
| insult you by speaking; so it ever is when folly and
i ignorance get into their hands the weapon of an eternal fact,
abuse, distortion, crime itself; such were ever the results of
| children playing with edged tools, but who but an ignoramus
would cry naughty knife. Gradually the movement is clearing
) i itself of such excretions, gradually is it becoming more sober,
and pure, and strong, and as sensible men and educated
men study, and pray, and work, striving to make good use
11 of their knowledge, will it become more so. I shall speak
| of one more manifestation, recorded by Mr. Hall, to show
I | that if there is the alloy there is also the true coin ; it
j occurred only lately through the mediumship (so called) of
Mrs. Everitt, and with it I leave the first division of my
! subject.
I will describe briefly au evening I passed at the house of Mr. and
Mrs. Everitt. He is a respectable and respected tradesman of Penton-
1 ville ; they are both teachers at a Sunday school, and estimable in all
| j the relations of private life—as parents, friends, aud neighbours. They
] are Christians, members of a Nonconformist church; and they never sit
i without prayer, singing a hymn, and a chapter read from the New
Testament—always, I believe, suggested to them by some unseen spirit
S i present. To suppose fraud under such circumstances would be to infer
! an amount of wickedness almost incredible ; that they could bias-
| phemously implore God’s aid and blessing, with the deliberate intention
\ to perpetrate a cheat 1 They are in no way paid mediums; and I am
; sure they believe in the reality of these manifestations, as truly as Mary
and Martha believed in the restoration to life from death of Lazarus,
|| their brother.
At that “sitting” (it was a “dark sitting”) I held a conversation,
continuing for more than half an hour, with a spirit who called himself
i “John Watt,” who told us much of his earth-life* history, of his present
| condition and state, and of his hope and faith in progress to a higher and
better. The voice was low; at parting he said this prayer:—“ May God
and our Lord Jesus Christ bless you, comfort you, help you, and give you
happiness in this world and in that to which, in due course, you will
come. May His light guide you, and His help be with you here and
} i hereafter. Amen.”
At the beginning of this paper I reminded you of the
/ j sceptical and so-called scientinc condition of the public mind
I at the time when this new movement arose m America.
I! Earnest religious thought, where it existed, continued to
j run in the ancient grooves, and a great gulf remained
i unbridged between the men who saved souls by preaching
the revelations of the past, and the men who dissected bodies
| to create a revelation for the future.
Such was the state of things that those pregnant knock-
i mgs at Hydesville came to disturb. Gradually it was dis-
April 11, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
171
covered that this was no mere phenomenal discovery of a
new force which might be used for driving the Chicago rail¬
road, and carrying speculators more cheaply thitherward, as
some thought whose minds were bent upon practicalities.
iC Mediumship” of various kinds was beginning to develop
itself, for the intelligences declared that not only could they
knock and show lights, but could also entrance certain ones,
and through them communicate ideas which were worth all
the objective phenomena put together, and of which they
were indeed only the external witness ; speaking through a
man’s month, writing through his hand things which were
perfectly novel both to the “ medium” himself and to those
around him became common. In the case of one medium,
Andrew Jackson Davies, a very ignorant office-boy, whole
volumes of teachings were given which in depth of thought,
and, what is more surprising, decency of grammar, would
have done credit to even an educated thinker; but the fact
to which I desire specially to direct your attention is that
the philosophy so enunciated through these various media,
mostly of humble station, men and women, boys and girls,
in all parts of a vast continent, and not only there, but over
the seas, in sober England and in hard-thinking Germany,
allowing for extravagances and absurdities, agrees in the
main not only with itself, but also with the ancient Eastern
philosophical systems, with the Platonic thought of Greece,
and with the teachings of the mediaeval hermit is ts and
“ heretics” so-called.
1 will give you some examples which will illustrate my
meaning more clearly presently. Apart from all the various
religious and, I am sorry to say, inoral ditferences of opinion
among the intelligences communicating, which perhaps
may be accounted for by their differing conditions of
character and power of perceiving spiritual light, all have
agreed in certain statements regarding man, his constitution,
and his future hope.
They have declared unanimously that the human being is
of a triple nature, that he consists of a Divine spirit, the
highest and most real part of him, of a soul or life force
residing in a structure finer than our present senses are
constructed to perceive, which soul structure becomes our
habitation when our grosser material body is cast off at death;
of a physical or external body through which he communicates
with the external world ; of these two latter also all things
having physical structure are possessed, man alone being the
temple of the innermost spirit.
That the end and object of creation is the development in all
its parts of the highest perfection possible to each individual
part—the object of man’s existence being therefore to attain
to full perfection of body, soul, and spirit, and to perfect
upon earth himself, his fellows, and all lower life existing
round him, in soil and plant and animal, which indeed
possess life in themselves, but life which can be directed to
its due end only by man, who has within him this Divine
reason. That death is merely an event in our endless life,
an entering upon another stage of being in which the soul
becomes the temple of the spirit, and in which, according to
our state of development, we go to our own place among
those who are, like ourselves, apish men to apish men, and
true men to true; our work there, as here (whether we refuse
it or not), being the raising of that which is below ourselves.
That finally all things tend to good, and that the Divine idea
in all creation will at last be realised.
The clear communication of such thought as I have here
sketched is, of course, only possible where the intelligence
and the medium are both advanced to a certain extent in the
inner life; but with more or less confusion and more or less
interest in the destiny of things as a lower or higher intelli¬
gence is communicating, upon these points their witness
agrees together, and it is upon this agreement rather than
upon any deductions from external phenomena that the main
evidence for the reality of <( spirit” communion will finally
rest.
Some of us will remember the tripartite division by Plato
of the nature of mau into—
voi»9, or rational soul.
6v[io<} or 'frvyrjf the life principle.
<ro/ia, the physical body.
With the ancient philosophy of India this doctrine is in
perfect harmony, and was doubtless originally borrowed from
I it. AAasa is the Sanskritt word used for the life principle
in the universe and in man; it consists of the astral light or
soul, and the celestial light or spirit, and is the base of all
matter and of the material body of man.
Next let us take the Neo Platonists. After death, says
Proclus, the spirit continues to linger in the aerial body till
it is entirely purified from all angry and voluptuous passion;
then doth it put off by a second dying the aerial body, as it
did the earthly one; whereupon there is a celestial body
always joined to the spirit, which is immortal, luminous,
and starlike.*
The idea of St Paul in Cor. xv. 85—57 is precisely
similar; also that of Origen and Irenceus.
I will now quote the testimony of a poor woman, a Swiss
Protestant, who for years was in a state of semi-trance,
during which she had constant vision of the spiritual world ;
she was utterly ignorant, and had no acquaintance whatever
with ancient thought upon this or other subjects.
The y/rv^Tj she calls the nerve-spirit, describing it as con¬
structing an airy form round the spirits, and by its means f
the spirits mho are in the mid-region are brought into connection
with a material in the atmosphere which enables them to make
themselves heard and felt by man. The nerve-spirit is
immortal and accompanies the spirit after death, unless when
the spirit is perfectly pure, and enters at once among the
blessed.
Comparing this with Plotinus’ words above quoted, and
with those that follow from the lips of a modern medium
ignorant as herself, and remembering that this woman had
never heard of the old philosophies or of modern Spirit¬
ualism, we add another link to the overwhelming chain of
testimony which joins together the early teachings of the
world on the subject of the nature of man with those given
through modern media, not one of whom had previously
read or even speculated upon such subjects, and who were
generally incapable of doing either.
A. J. Davis, the medium before alluded to, describes a
11 clairvoyant vision of death thus. I give a short abstract of
/ his account. Over the bed on which the body of the dying
woman lay he saw a luminous cloud gathering; within this
i( the new head, and then the body and limbs appear; until
the completion of the form a cord of electric light passed
from the head of the dying person to that of the newly-
formed body, which was then gently floated from the room ;
its appearance being that of the natural body, but fresh,
blooming, and sublimated.
Upon the other points the uniformity of testimony is
! |: equally striking, but at present I have no time to refer to it.
I Marvel has succeeded marvel so rapidly from the time when
Mr. Home gave his first stances in England to the present
that the attention of intellect and of science has, in
spite of almost frantic opposition, been brought more
and more to bear upon the phenomena, so much so that
a distinguished scientist has only lately declared that
( if our facts be true they are “ affairs for the notice
|) of the police.” A most hopeful sign this; for when
authority thinks it expedient to beat down facts with a
j bludgeon, a speedy and joyful resurrection for the facts
] | may be surely looked for. An exciting but unbeautiful
I game, which is still played at some schools, illustrates
admirably the position of this movement between the camps
of theology and science ; like a shuttlecock, to and fro the
poor little urchin has flown and reflown. “ Tm the king of
the castle, get out you dirty rascal,” has been his greeting
at either end of his journey; but he has survived it all, and
is now a sturdy young hobbledehoy, who will hold his own
ground each year more firmly; while from either stronghold
| a few venturesome ones have come out and patted him on tho
( back, wishing him good luck in the names of their respective
I lords. Such men as Crookes and Wallace from the camp of
| science, and Haweis and Page Hopps from that of theology,
( are good champions should the game be renewed.
But when scorn has failed, and bullying has failed,
| there remains yet a resort to explain to the misguided
( little entity, who has usurped the title of modern Spirit-
> malism, that he is not only a misbehaver but a m/s-
I creant, having quite mistaken his own identity; and
* Isi* Unveiled, Yol. I., p. -1US. t Her own wuinle.
172
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 11, 1879.
so the eminent scientist, Dr. Carpenter, explains to him | j
(quite gently) that he ought to call himself unconscious | j
cerebration, and once calling himself so, will be a subject j {
of interest to himself and his friends. Unconscious j J
shoving is a shorter word, and describes his character exactly, |)
interposes Tyndall; call him the devil, and have done with |
him, cries kindly Canon Ryle; if let us abolish him at j
once, and for ever.” Amen, says Cardinal Manning; we j
have dodged him long enough. But his defenders, what |
can they plead on his behalf?
Mr. Crookes shows how he has demonstrated, by careful ex- |
periment, that the despised one has verily a claim to^his name; j
that perhaps the wisest course would be to call him Psychic I |
force. No one can object to it, for this allies him on the one ! !
hand to Dr. Carpenter’s nomenclature when he merely kicks i !
the table, and on the other to Canon Ryle’s when he shows j j j
signs of intelligence and will, so among the unprejudiced I j
Mr. Crookes’ theory has grown daily in favour, with various j j
modifications. Madame Blavatsky has shown us how often j
there is reason for believing that the physical phenomena j |
result from the action of intelligences lower than human, the j
souls of animals, and what we are accustomed to call the ; |
blind forces of nature, the life of the elements sometimes j I j
from the life force of the circle controlled by the wills of fej
those present. She has taught us how absurd is our use of j j
such a term as materialised spirit; how, as the God-life is I |
developed in us, we become less and less associated with j i
matter; how the presence of a spirit, in the true sense of the j j
word, is felt as a breath influencing our innermost spirit, not ! !
as a force lifting our furniture ; but that only so far as the | j
ghost in us is indeed a holy ghost can this influence reach | j
us, can we be in any sense inspired. j j j
Dr. Wyld has devoted much patient labour in proving to j i
us how gigantic are the powers of the human embodied soul | j!
and spirit; how often these phenomena are produced by the j j
soul or spirit body of the medium himself temporarily, during ! j
trance, separated from his physical body. His pamphlet, j !
“ Man as Spirit,” dealing with this subject, is very valuable. |) I
Mr. Stainton-Moses, Professor of Literature at University ) j |
College, London, has for many years been attempting to j i
make clear that as the object of our study is that mysterious i) j
psyche or soul which links the divine part in us to the bodily j (j
frame, that this study ought to be most scientifically exact, I j
that by careful experiment we ought to attempt to understand i j;
what the powers and functions of this soul or yjrvxv are, but I \ |
that while so experimenting we can never forget that if this | i
soul does thus act upon the body, that it is itself acted on by IV j
Spirit, and by being so acted upon is saved or made healthy. \ (!
For if we are investigators by weighing and measuring, j j i
and testing the conditions of atomic structure and the power j !
of the life force, are we not also bound most solemnly to be j |
aiders in the spreading glorious knowledge which witnesses to | j j
us that to exist is to live, if to decay is^ctf to die. Are we not j !
bound to consider in every experiment what an earnest matter j j
this really is, to make quite sure that our psychical know- | j
ledge makes us furtherers and not hinderers of spiritual \ I
progress here and there ? To keep before our thoughts that | j
we have indeed a divine spark in us to develop, and make j j
rules over soul and body, that the happy kingdom of j j
perfection may come to this whole universe, all glorious in j j
its outer body, all harmonious in its inner thought; verily, I |
the materialised idea of God ? j j j
So it seems to me; and those who believe as I do, that it j j j
is really soul force working in our circles, will agree with j j j
me; and I trust that we have here in Cambridge a real and | j j
an all-important work to do, to stand between the dis- | j
believing* physical school on that hand, and the dogmatic j |
theological school on that, and bind them together humbly
and faithfully as the soul f binds spirit and body.
"What sort of soul we shall be to this place depends upon
what sort of soul we choose to be—whether we shall be those
among us who are the channels through which the force
reaches us more especially; but all of us, God knows how
important this is, seekers after a better progress and a more
true light, raisers of our brethren here and there, wielders
of a “ sledge hammer ” by means cf the phenomena which
shall crush modern materialism some day utterly, or mere
passing phenomena-hunters playing with a fearful weapon
which shall, perhaps, slay ourselves.
Of the devil theory I have no fear. I believe enough in
God to believe Him creator of all. If this soul force exists,
it exists only through His creation, and has its use as much
as our bodily appetites or our spiritual aspirations. A fact
is an everlasting stronghold, for you can’t get outside God.
But I do feel a deep responsibility in introducing up here
this new doctrine, as it is called; I do feel for good or for
evil how gigantic a truth it is. Lord Brougham called it a
cloud no bigger than a man’s hand in the dark sky of
scepticism ; that cloud is increasing daily, and I cannot tell
you how I long that Cambridge thought and Cambridge
culture may be able to direct to noble uses those drops which
are beginning to fall, much more the future showers.
Let us be careful observers, faithful, seeking only truth,
holding firmly both our science and our faith, and bringing
both to bear on these facts; let us test every phenomenon by
rigorous examination, and every teaching by the conscience
of the world, and by the law of our Divine Lord; let us be
neither credulous nor worse than all spook worshippers. So
may we Cambridge men have the honour of loving facts and
hating prejudice, though every booby howl and every fanatic
rave at us. So may the knockings of old Hornie and the
discomforts of Farmer Fox tend to make us more full of
knowledge and faith in things human as guided by things
Divine, to that all-beautiful and all-perfect end of that
happy kingdom—
“ Where not one life shall be destroyed,
Or cast as rubbish to the void,
When God has made the pile complete.”
^oetrg.
NEAR APART.
From my good native country far banished,
Far from all most beloved away,
Once I watched, as the golden sun vanished,
All my dear ones in mystic array.
Yet no cold, ghastly shapes formed to harrow
My weak spirit, or frighten my heart;
But their kind looks of old, blent with sorrow,
As I thought that our lives were apart.
Still I felt that we never are parted—
We on earth who have faithfully loved—
For when these so beloved and true-hearted
Were restored to my presence they proved
That my dreams were no passing delusion,
No mere flights of a whimsical brain ;
Nor of love the deceptive illusion
Alike to their visions made plain.
For when Providence willed to restore them,
As of yore to my natural sight;
Oft they told how I glided before them,
That same eve through an ocean of light.
Thus full surely I trust in my dreaming,
What though strange even wild it appear,
That despite all material seeming,
E’en on earth souls apart may be near.
R. A. 0.
A GHOST AT A CLUB-HOUSE.
Will some member of the Union Club give an authentic account of
the ghost which is alleged to haunt that old and respectable institution?
The rumour is that a certain Colonel left the club some time ago
under rather unpleasant circumstances, and then left the world as well.
Shortly afterwards a waiter was startled by seeing the deceased gentle¬
man perambulating one of the rooms late at night, and, on walking after
him, found himself alone in the apartment. The ghost seems to have
become bolder by degrees, for he now makes his appearance at more
seasonable hours, and his old acquaintances occasionally see him sitting
in his favourite arm-chair. There is, of course, no reason why a ghost
should not haunt a club-house as well as any other building; but, if the
story be true, and it certainly is a very widely-spread one, it is the first
instance of the kind in the history of apparitions with which I am
acquainted.— Whitehall Review.
An Address by Mr. James Campbell.—Mr. J. A. Campbell,
President of the Cambridge University Society for Psychological
Investigation, will read a paper next Monday week, April 21st, at one
of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s evening receptions. There will be a
largo and influential gathering of Spiritualists and non-Spiritualists,
the latter of whom will have an opportunity of learning that Spirit¬
ualism is not what it is represented to be by daily newspapers. The
title of Mr. Campbell’s address will be, “ The Record of the Seers con¬
cerning the Great Change.”
* I mean no disrespect to the present great teachers of that school.
fl use the term soul throughout this paper as meaning the life principle in all nature.
April 11, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST; jL73
CLAIRVOYANCE AND PHYSICS.
Professor William Denton, in a review of Andrew Jackson Davis’s I i
Divine Revelations, in the Religio-Philosophical Journal, gives the fol- i) |
lowing illustrations of the well-known untrustworthiness of psychical j (!
revelations about physics:— . ! 11
Speaking of the time when the ichthyosaurus, plesiosaurus, ptero- : j j
daotyle, and iguanodon lived, a time which geologists call the Jurassic I / ]
period, Mr. Davis, in the Divine Revelations, says that “ the whole 11 i
animal creation, at this period, properly corresponds to two distinct j) j
classes—the lizard-turtle and the turtle-bird.” This is a most strange i} i
statement. There was living upon the earth at that time, as we know, j s j
radiates, articulates, mollusks, fishes, birds, and at least twenty species 1 j j
of marsupial mammals. All these belonged to the animal creation, yet ] ) j
not one of them corresponds to what we could properly call a lizard- i ( I
turtle or a turtle-bird. The radiates, mollusks, and articulates certainly j ) j
did not; we might as well talk of star-fish and clams corresponding to I } j
lizard-turtles or turtle-birds. The fishes of that time were not allied j s !
to either turtles or birds, or, at least, none such have been discovered. ; ) |
There were, however, many species of reptiles during that period, j) j
and if we are to find any animals corresponding to lizard-turtles or j j j
turtle-birds, they will probably be among the reptiles. In the Jurassic j) |
formation we find hundreds of species of reptiles, sea-reptiles— j | j
enaliosaurs, land-reptiles—iguanodons and megalosaurs, bird-legged {(|
reptiles—ornithoscelidse, whale-like reptiles—cetiosaurs, fish-reptiles— j) ]
ichthyosaurs, and bird-reptiles—pterosaurs. Yet none of this great i ( j
variety of reptiles corresponds with what can be termed lizard-turtles i j I
or turtle-birds. If such animals existed at any time they are yet to be i) j
found; and a greater mistake could hardly be made than to say that j (j
the whole animal creation of that period corresponded with the lizard- j j j
turtle and the turtle-bird. |) |
The Revelations also state that at that time “ the atmosphere with its it!
enormous density prohibited the formation of light bone, active muscle, j j!
and tender nerve, and prevented entirely such chemical combinations as j | i
are necessary to render them light and active.” j j!
This is as incorrect as the previous statement. Twenty species of j)!
small mammals have been found in the Jurassic beds, which range 11 ]
from the size of a rat to that of a rabbit; so we know that the atmo- j j j
sphere did not prohibit the formation of light bone and active muscle, j j i
The mammals were insectivorous, and must have been active to catch i j j
the insects they fed upon. There are no facts known to the geologist j j i
that would lead us to believe that the pressure of the atmosphere j j [
affected animals differently from what it does to-day. It is certain that j j \
there were dragon-flies flitting about at that time, for we have found j ( |
them in a fossil state ; and the atmosphere that allowed of this could i) i
hardly have prevented the activity of other forms of life.
In the same period we are informed (page 268) that “ immense coral j ( S
reefs were formed, extending from twenty to sixty miles, and being i 5 j
from three to eight miles in thickness.” The extent of the beds is not 11 !
very remarkable, but the thickness is enormous. The greatest thickness j j j
of the Jurassic beds known to us anywhere is less than half-a-mile; ]) j
the reef-building polyps do not work at a greater depth than about 100 j ( |
feet; and for a reef eight miles in thickness to form during the Jurassic | |
period would require the bottom of the sea to sink to a depth of nearly |) j
eight nailers, and this so slowly that the polyps built upwards at just the | i
same rate as the bottom of the sea sank. We have no evidence of any j j !
subsidence of such a character at any period of the planet’s history, and ]) j
the thickest reef of coral that is known to us in any period is not one- j j
twentieth of eight miles. i j
In addition to this, we are informed that these vast reefs were made j) j
by animals so minute that 200 of them could dwell within a drop of j j I
water. The smallest polyps that assist in the formation of coral reefs ! | j
to-day are about one-tenth of an inch in diameter, and we have no I j j
reason to think that the reef-builders of the Jurassic period were any j j j
smaller than this: some of them, we know, were quite large.
The whole animal kingdom ” in the cretaceous period is said i j i
(page 278) to be divided into three degrees : the saurian, the tortoise, |(j
and the mammalia. During the cretaceous period the waters swarmed j j j
with multitudinous forms of protozoans, radiates, mollusks, articulates, i j j
and fishes ; while several species of birds flew over the water and through j j j
the woods. All these were members of the ” animal kingdom,” yet I j
they are neither saurians, tortoises, nor mammals. How such an j ( |
incorrect statement came to be made it is difficult to see, since we are I j j
told that in the same period the sea abounded with infusoria, which j ) i
certainly cannot be classed with saurians, tortoises, or mammals.
The inaccurate statements made by Mr. Davis in reference to matters j j j
with which we are well acquainted, and with which it would seem 1 j i
that he might have been even in his normal condition, are quite I j j
remarkable. 1 i >
On page 270, it is said that “chalk is known to be the carbonate of j j
lime crystallised and sublimated, intermixed with various silicious sub- j |
stances existing in the coatings of the mollusks and estuaries.” It is j I
impossible, however, that anything of this kind can be known, for chalk, j ) :
though it is carbonate of lime, is not carbonate of lime crystallised and I j !
intermixed with anything. It is simply white sea mud, of the cretaceous ; j |
time, largely composed of the shells of rhizopods that swarmed in the ; j
deep ocean at the bottom of which it was deposited ; nor has the lime of | j !
which it is composed been sublimated, for if carbonate of lime is heated i I j
when exposed to the air, the carbonic acid is driven off, and we have | i
quicklime ; if heated under pressure, with the air excluded, it cannot : j j
rubiime, but, if the heat is great enough, it melts, and when it cools and : i
crystallises, forms marble. Nor is chalk intermixed with silicious I
substances “ existing in the coatings of mollusks and in estuaries,” for i j ::
silica does not enter into the composition of molluscous shells.
What can be meant by silicious substances existing in estuaries ? ; M
The chalk was a deep sea deposit, and does not appear to have been !
formed whore estuaries existed. ■ i I i
We are then informed on the same page that the substance of
lime transformed into corals by the infusoria and redecomposed
formed by condensation the beds of chalk. It is not easy to tell
what all this means, but it is easy to see that it contains incorrect
statements. First, infusoria do not form corals; they are made by
polyps, which are radiates; and, second, chalk is not composed of
corals, but almost entirely of shells of protoza, called rhizopods ;
and, third, there are no indications that since the mud and shel s
gradually settled to the ocean bed, that they have been either re¬
decomposed or decomposed, though the chalk has doubtless been con¬
densed by simple pressure.
The mistakes made in this volume are not in reference to merely
trivial matters; many of them show that the general ideas of the
speaker were far from being in correspondence with the facts. On
page 286 we are informed that “ near the close of the new red sandstone,
and during all the subsequent ages to the consummation of the tertiary,
heavy frosts and snows, and enormous mountains of ice, prevailed
extensively throughout the polar regions. And these frequently became
suddenly melted into water, which flowed to warmer climates. . . . The
consequence was the frequent and almost entire submersion of the whole
face of nature. These occurrences are termed by geologists ‘ inunds -
tions ’•—and the evidences of such are received from the manifestations
of the diluvial deposits.”
But there are no diluvial deposits known to us till after the deposition
of the tertiary beds, and it is certain that from the time of the new red
sandstone, to the consummation of the tertiary, the polar regions were
in no such condition as the Revelations represent. The Jurassic period
was between the new red sandstone and the tertiary, yet Dana says,
“ The facts favour the view that the climate of the Arctic in the Jurast-ic
period was at least warm, temperate.” Well might he say this, for both
ichthyosaurs and teleosaurs have been found in Jurassic beds from six
to eight degrees north of the polar circle; so that, instead of mountains
of ice existing there, the climate was in all probability tropical.
Even as recently as the miocene tertiary, vines, maples, walnuts, and
the magnolia flourished in the north of Greenland, and many species of
trees, such as grow in temperate climes as far north as Spitzbergen, so
that even then the Polar region could not have been in that frigid con¬
dition which the Revelations represent it to have been in from the new
red sandstone to the close of the tertiaiy; indeed, we have no deposits
that can with propriety be referred to a glacial or icy time till the close
of the tertiary period.
On the 289th page it is said that in the tertiary period enormous ice¬
bergs were carried by bodies of water and crossed the surface of the
whole earth, and then great currents of water are said to have formed
the diluvial strata.
No diluvial strata have been found south of thirty-five degrees north
latitude, except in the neighbourhood of high mountain summits, and
none date back to a period as ancient as the tertiary. If icebergs had
ever swept over the entire face of the earth, evidences of their operation
would certainly have been left, but no indications of any such extra¬
ordinary occurrence have ever been seen.
“Water,” we are informed on the 298th page, “it is known to
chemists, is only a condensation of the same elements that compose a
great part of the atmosphere, and which would in reality be very
inflammable, but that their combined condition makes them unsuscep¬
tible.” In truth, however, no such thing is known to chemists. It is
utterly impossible to form water from the elements of the atmosphere-—
water being composed of oxygen and hydrogen gases, and the atmo¬
sphere of oxygen and nitrogen, with a small proportion of carbonic acid
gas. Nor are the elements composing the atmosphere inflammable,
either combined or uncombined.
On the 306th page are statements in reference to the trees at the com¬
mencement of the present era, which are entirely contrary to facts, as
they are known to the geologist. “Thus, we are informed that the pine,
in the form of an exogenous plant, existed at the commencement of the
present era ; and this at subsequent periods assumed the form of a more
perfect pine, with its modifications of cedar, hemlock, spruce, dogwood,
and mountain rock-oak.” The pines are not regarded by botanists as
true exogenous plants, and they have existed since the Devonian times.
The dogwood cannot be a modification of any pine of the present ern,
for its leaves as well as those of the oak have been found in the cretaceous
deposits of the United States.
The maple is said to be a modification of the oak, which “ assumed its
character about eight hundred years after the red oaks became esta¬
blished. These pass gradually into the higher forms of the same class,
such as the birch, the chesnut, the butternut, the hickory, the sassafras
—and into the simpler trees, such as the ferns and palms.”
Ferns date back to the Devonian period; palms to the Cretaceous ;
where also we find the oak, the maple, and the sassafras; and the order
of their development must, therefore, have been widely different from
that given in the Revelations.
The mastodon (page 311) is said to have existed about 2,500 years,
and then became extinct. The mastodon first appears in the Miocene,
continues through the miocene, pliocene, and glacial periods, the whole
time certainly including more than a million of years.
We have (page 312) a very strange statement regarding the formation
of amber. “ There was a certain condition of the sea at one period
in which by a strange and peculiar chemical process substances were
united together and ultimately became condensed and were thrown by
the waves upon the shores. Such substances are now termed amber.
These contain very minute insects, being transparent and beautifully
crystallised.”
Amber never was formed in any such way. It is well known to be
fossil gum, which exuded from trees in the tertiary time, flowing down
their trunks and enveloping leaves, mosses, lichens, and insects, which
are frequently found within it. This gum having been buried has in
time been transformed into amber and is obtained by digging in the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ApRit 11, 1879.
beds where it was deposited, or picked up on the shores of the Baltic,
where it has been washed out of the place of its original deposit by the
waves.
The Revelations declare that (< some portions of dry beach land were
entirely covered with these crystallised substances, and presented a
beautiful pearly white appearance.” Amber is not a crystalline sub¬
stance ; it is neither white nor pearly white ; and it is quite certain that
the gum from which it was formed was not crystallised, and it is quite
improbable that it was of a pearly white colour; so that nearly the
whole statement regarding amber is incorrect.
ANOTHER METHOD OF ATTEMPTING TO PROVE SPIRIT
PRESENCE.
Bf CHARLES BLACKBURN.
A few weeks since I thought it possible that, by applying
an electric telephone to a darkened cabinet or room, such
as mediums use for dark or materialisation stances, we
could ascertain, whilst the mediums were seated in their
chairs in a trance or conscious state, what occurs when
they are still and we cannot see them. Thus I might try
to prove, by using simple apparatus, that a suspected
medium was not guilty of fraud, but that a separate and
distinct force, governed by intelligence, did everything. So
I wrote to my friend, C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., electrician,
for his opinion, and I hand it you for publication, verbatim.
Cromwell House, Bexley Heath, Kent, March 24th, 1879.
My Dear Sir,—I do not see how the telephone is to help you much
in communicating with spirits.
The common string telephone, sold for 2s. Cd. the pair, would answer
for short distances better far than the electric telephone.
If you have a large tambourine inside a cabinet, and this be con¬
nected by a tight string with another tambourine, you will enable a
number of people at a distance of twenty or thirty yards to hear what
is going on inside the cabinet almost, if not quite, as well as if they
were in it. Thus-—
A B, tambourines; D, inside of cabinet j H, good twine stretched
t’ght; E, room outside cabinet.
People sitting near B will hear very well indeed. I have spoken
590 feet this way very well indeed.
If the one tambourine be perpendicularly over the Other, as in a mine
shaft, you can easily speak J ,000 feet.
The electric telephone discomposes many words. The word “ con-
teription” becomes “Tom Scripton.”—Very truly yours,
C. F.- Varley.
C. Blackburn, Esq*
As photographs taken in darkness by Count de Bullet,
of Paris, have proved that numerous “ departed spirits ”
are around us, I also wish to prove it by another process,
either by the above method or by the weighing machine,
or in any other practical way*
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
Oh Friday, March 28th, a stance was held at the house of
Mr. W. Elgie Corner, 3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney,
London, at which Mr. Haxby was the medium. The guests,
about fourteen or fifteen in all, sat with the medium in a
darkened room, their chairs close against the walls, and a
round table with musical instruments on it, in the middle of
the room.
After some of the common dark circle manifestations, in
which musical instruments flew about the room with such
velocity that the wind they raised in their flight was felt by
the faces of the sitters, a box of lozenges was taken from
the hands of Mrs. Owen (wife of Major Owen, of the
Psychological Society), and a materialised spirit hand put a
lozenge into the mouth of nearly every sitter in the circle.
Although this was done in the dark, the hand went direct to
each mouth without first feeling for its whereabouts, except
in one instance. In relation to that instance, the spirit
made the curious statement that the ill-health of the sitter
was cause of his not being able to see him so clearly as the
others present.
A box, with pencil and blank paper inside, had been tied
and sealed before the seance, to see if the spirits could do
any writing inside it. At the close of the sitting several
lozenges were found inside the box. Whether they were
put there by abnormal means depended upon the integrity
of two seals, not upon the tying. One of the seals was
insecure. The other appeared to be sound, and the act of
opening the box broke and chipped it in a way it presumably
would have broken it before had the box been opened pre¬
viously. On another occasion, a box might be sealed more
carefully.
In the middle of the dark seance, a new musical-box,
which the medium had never seen till he entered the house
that evening, was handed to its owner, Miss Corner, by a
spirit, who asked her to lock it, and to keep the key till the
sitting ended, which she did. The box then flew about the
room, and Mrs. Corner asked whether they could lay a piece
of paper on the metallic comb inside the box. Directly
afterwards, the clear tune was somewhat obscured by a
continuous buzzing noise, such as would result from the
accomplishment of the requested feat. The spirits subse¬
quently could be heard several times winding up the box,
yet at the close of the seance the key could not be found.
On unlocking the box, in the light, the key was found
inside, and several pieces of the brasswork from inside the
box had been removed to some place unknown.
Since our last report, several seances have been held at
the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, at which Mr. Serjeant Cox and
others were present. Mr. Williams was the medium.
Nothing much took place in the way of manifestations. A
spirit, who claimed to be an Indian named' Shaggy Bear,
and who repeatedly expressed a kindly desire to scalp
everybody present, interrupted manifestations of all kinds.
AN INTERESTING EXPERIMENT.
Mr. Reimers writes that at a recent siance at the house of Mr.
Clarance, the medium, in Britton, “ Mr. T. H. Edmands, Mr. B. Barton
myself, and Mr. Clarance formed the circle. I brought a thin but strong
non-elastic cord, which we ran through all the button-holes of our shirt
wristbands (not loose cuffs), and sealed the ends to a paper. This Mr.
Edmands did with his signet ring. Then we put out the light, and
soon things outside our circle began to move; the guitar was taken from
the table and knocked against distant parts of the room ; a coal-scuttle
upset with a crash, and many interesting physical phenomena occurred,
ending with the chair test. The latter particularly surprised Mr.
Barton, whose arm was threaded through the rails of the chair. He
had never seen the test before, and rather doubted that it was ever
given. On close examination at the close of the seance, the seal was
found intact, and the thread unbroken. The test itself took only two
minutes to arrange.”
St. Andrew’s Church, Tavistock -place.—It will bo remembered how,
from the pulpit of St. Andrew’s, the church of the Yen. Archdeacon Dunbar,
the facts of modem Spiritualism were admitted by Dr. Maurice Davies to be
as true as the facts of the Spiritualism of ancient times, and to be powerful
aids to religious faith and life. This fearless course of telling the truth has
raised a friendly feeling towards St. Andrew’s Church and its ministers among
the numerous Spiritualists in the district, and last Sunday morning some of our
readers formed a fairly large proportion of the congregation. The Rev. Dr.
Maurice Davies and the Rev. Lord Theobald Butler conducted the services for
February, Archdeacon Dunbar having been taken dangerously ill -in London,
and moved to Bournemouth in a precarious condition of health. Before recover¬
ing from this illness, soon after his return to town the Archdeacon was seized
with an attack of pleurisy, which, together with his previous maladies, have
left him in such a state of ill-health that he has been again obliged to place
his church in the charge of the Rev. Dr. Maurice Davies ; he is now, ho wever,
able to begin to resume his duties. Dr. Maurice Davies is giving a course of
sermons appropriate to the season. On Good Friday morning the subject of
his sermon is to be “ Light out of Darkness.” Last Sunday half a dozen of
the white-robed choir carried palm branches in honour of the day, reminding
us, as they knelt between the altar and the rood-screen, of some of those
quaintly graceful figures of saints or angels in mediaeval pictures. This is
the only English church in which musical masses are given entire ; that of
last Sunday was Gounod’s Messe Solemnelle. The anthems were from Men¬
delssohn and Haydn, and at the end of the evening service the choir, for the
fourth or fifth time this season, sang the famous prayer from Rossini’s Nose in
Egitto. The creed on Good Friday morning is to Schubert in G, and the anthem
“ 0, Saviour of the World ” (Goss). On Easter Day the services are to be
orchestral, at 11 and 12.15, when the anthem will be, “ But Thou didst not
leave His soul in Hell,” &c. (Handel) j and the Communion Service will be to
Schubert in F, a wonderfully brilliant Mass, most striking when represented
with orchestra, as at St. Andrew’s. Dr, Maurice Davies preaches in the
morning on “ The Misery of a Dead Christ,” and in the evening on “ The
Exaltation of the Grave.” At this service the beautiful anthem, “ Blessed bo
the God and Father ” (Wesley), will be sung. At St. Andrew’s, seatholders
have their sittings for themselves or their friends kept for them throughout
all the services, and not filled even if the seatholders are absent.
Among new books, A Clergyman on Spiritualism, with a dedication to
the Rev. Sir William Dunbar, Bart., by Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
(Harrison: 1879), has just been issued. A Marked Life; or, The
Autobiography of a Clairvoyante, by Gipsy (Sampson Low and Co.),
contains descriptions of several true psychological incidents.
April 11, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
175
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL IDEAS IN THE SACRED POETRY
OF ORIENTAL RACES.
[Concluded).
BT C. J. PLUMPTRE, LECTURER ON PUBLIC SPEAKING AT KING’S COLLEGE.
My next illustration is from what I cannot but think a
most exquisite hymn to Ushas—the Dawn :—
il 1. She shines upon us like a young maiden, raising every
living being to go to his work. When the fire had to be
kindled by men, she made the light by striking down the
darkness.
‘‘2. She rose up spreading far and wide and moving
everywhere. She grew in brightness, wearing her brilliant
garment. The spirit of the morning, the leader of the days,
she shone gold-coloured, lovely to behold!
“ 4. Thou, who art a blessing when thou art near, drive far
away the enemy, make the pasture wide, give us safety.
Raise up wealth to thy worshippers, thou mighty Dawn 1
11 5. Shine for us with best rays, thou bright Dawn, thou
that lengthenest our days, thou the love of all!
“ 8. Thou, daughter of the Sky, thou high-born Dawn,
whom the Vasishers magnify with songs, give us blessings
far and wide.”
In these Vedic hymns we constantly encounter what few
would have anticipated finding there: the two ideas so con¬
tradictory to the human understanding, and yet so easily
reconciled in every human heart, that God has established
the eternal laws of right and wrong, that he punishes sin
and rewards virtue; and yet, that the same God is willing
to forgive; just, yet merciful; a judge, and yet a father.
Imagine the feelings which alone could have prompted the
utterances of such a solemn Litany as this :—
“1. Let me not yet, 0 Yaruna, enter into the house of
clay; have mercy, Almighty, have mercy !
“ 2. If I go along, trembling, like a cloud driven by the
winds, have mercy, Almighty, have mercy!
“ 3. Through want of strength, thou strong and mighty
God, have I gone wrong. Have mercy, Almighty, have
mercy!
“ 4. Thirst came upon thy worshipper, though he stood
in the midst of the waters. Have mercy, Almighty, have
m rcy !
“5. Wherever we men, 0 Yaruna, commit an offence
before the heavenly host; whenever we break thy law
through thoughtlessness, have mercy, Almighty, have
mercy I ”
The deep mysterious consciousness of sin is a prominent
feature in the religious poetry of the Yedas, and so also is the
belief that the gods are able to take away from man the heavy
burthen of his sins ; and as Professor Max Muller justly
observes, when we read such passages as t{ Yaruna is
merciful even to him that hath committed sin, if he humbly
and earnestly repent,” we should surely not allow the
strange name of Yaruna to jar on our ears, but should
remember that it is but one of the many names which men
invented, in their helplessness, to express their ideas of the
Deity, however partial and imperfect. But the next hymn,
the fourth of the Atharva-Yeda, beginning at the sixteenth
Verse, will show you how nearly the language of the ancient
poets of India may approach to the language of the Bible.
“ 1. The great Lord of all these worlds sees all, as if he
were near all. It a man thinks he is walking by stealth, the
great Lord knows all that he doeth.
“2. If a man stands, or walks, or hides; if he goes to lie
down or to get up ; yea, when two people sitting together do
but whisper, King Yaruna knows it. He is there as the third.
“ 3. This earth, too, belongs to'Yaruna, the king, and this
wide sky with its ends far apart—the sky and the ocean are
as Yaruna’s loins ; and yet he is to be found even in this
drop of water.
“ If a man could flee beyond the heavens, he could not be
free from the presence of Varuna. He sees all that is
between heaven and earth, and all that is beyond. Nay, he
counted the very twinklings of the eyes of men. He sees
and governs all.”
In closing this branch of my subject, which I could have
extended much further, but for the limit to which a single
lecture on such a subject must necessarily be confined, I
must draw your attention to the fact that there is in the Yedas
* Read at a meeting of the Psychological Society, on Thursday, last week.
Il l no trace of the doctrine of metempsychosis, or that trans-
i | migration of souls from human to animal bodies, which is
I | generally supposed to be a distinguishing feature of Indian
j ! religion. Instead of this we have what is really, as Professor
| Max Muller justly remarks, the sine qua non of all real
| | religion or belief in immortality, and in personal immor-
| | tality.
Without a belief in, or at least of a hope of personal
j ! immortality, religion surely is like an arch resting on one
I pillar, like a bridge ending in an abyss. We cannot wonder
| | at the great difficulties felt and expressed by Bishop War-
i | burton and other eminent divines with regard to the sup-
j | posed total absence of immortality, or personal immortality,
j in the Old Testament. But while this difficulty, so keenly
j 11 felt with regard to the Jewish religion, ought to make us
II j careful in the judgments we form of other religions, and
| | teach us the wisdom of charitable interpretation, it is all the
| | more important to mark that in the Yedas passages occur
j | where immortality of the soul, personal immortality, and
I | personal responsibility are clearly proclaimed. I select only
(I a few of such passages from the first book of the Rig Yeda :
“ 1. He who gives alms to the poor and loves charity goes
j to the highest place in heaven.”
One poet prays that he may see his father and mother
| j again after death. But perhaps the most striking proof of
j this belief is to be found in the 113th hymn of the ninth
i book of the Rig Yeda, addressed to Soma, 11 Where there is
j eternal light in the world where the sun is placed, in that
( | immortal, imperishable world, place me, 0 Soma !
u Where King Yaisnosvala reigns, where the secret place
| I of heaven is, where those mighty waters are, there make me
| | immortal 1
“ Where life is free, in the heaven of heavens, there make
| (j me immortal!
11 Where there is happiness and delight, where the fulfil-
! | ment of our desires is gratified, there make me immortal! ”
Whether there existed also a belief in a permanent place
h i of punishment for the wicked is not quite so certain. A pit
| ! is mentioned in the Rig Yeda into which the lawless dre
j I said to be cast down, and one poet prays that the Adityas
j | may preserve him from falling into this pit; and in one
| | passage we read that those who break the commandments of
I ! Yaruna and speak lies are born for that deep place.
Professor Monier Williams, of Oxford, in a lecture deli*
| | vered very recently at the London Institution, gave some
I | very interesting particulars in regard to the psychological
I ! ideas of the Hindoos. He says their belief is that the human
| | soul has three bodies—one, a material, or gross body, which
i I was the one burnt after death ; a second, which was the body
| j that rose after death from the funeral pyre, and accompanied
I it through its innumerable existences; and the third, an inter-
I I mediate body, with which the soul was invested during its
I ! intermediate condition of happiness or misery, before its
! 11 reappearance in another gross body on the earth. The
I | intermediate body required to be refreshed by food and drink,
ii' | which was offered to it by sons or grandsons.
Next in point of antiquity to the Yedas are the great epics
of the Ramayana and the Mahabarata, and in these, per-
| vading the narrative, we have the same worship and love of
nature as in the Yedas. Following these, in point of time,
we have the Puranas, whose special object is the develop-
| ment of the religious principle in the minds of the various
sects. The external world of nature occupies a prominent
| part in these poems, and it is evident that the descriptions
of natural scenery and phenomena are based on local and
| scientific observation. But no ancient poet among theaneient
Indians is more read and admired than Kalidera, who lived
| fifty-six years before the Christian era, and was consequently
the contemporary of Yirgil and Horace. Admirable trans-
i lations have been made of his great work, the SacaontJa^
j both by English and German authors. So exquisite is his
tenderness of feeling, and so rich his creative fancy, that by
i common consent a very high rank is assigned to him among
I the poets of all nations. The dramatic element, too, is
J I strikingly exhibited in his beautiful drama of Vikrama and
j (| Unasi; and his minor poems, The Seasons and The
! | Messenger oj the Clouds, describe with wonderful power and
| J j fidelity the various incidents and phenomena of Indian life
1(1 and scenery, and display much of that idealising art which
HQ
?HE SPIRitf UALIST.
April ll, l87§.
I have already said is so conspicuous in the poetry of the
Hebrews.
And now we come to the West Aryans or Persians. Their
ancient dualistic belief in the principles of good and evil,
Ormuzd and Ehrimenes, is combined throughout their
writings with a highly spiritualised worship of nature, but
their most ancient poems, it is believed, have perished. It
was not, indeed, until the country had been conquered by the
Arabs, that it can be said to have acquired a national lite¬
rature, and this period does not extend over more than 500
years, that is, beginning with Firdusi and ending with Hafiz.
Indeed Persian literature may be said to belong to the middle
ages, while the great literature of India belongs as strictly
to antiquity as that of Greece or Home. The style of Persian
poetry presents a striking contrast to that of India. It is less
natural, less fresh, less animated, often turgid, and over¬
clouded with artificial adornment. Depth and earnestness of
feeling are qualities almost wholly wanting; but wit, spirit,
and humour often sparkle in their writings as brightly as the
fountains in their gardens of roses sparkle in the sunlight of
their cloudless skies.
But it is now time to advert to the sacred poetry of that
most deeply interesting people, the ancient Egyptians.
In the Literary Remains of the late Emmanuel Deutsch,
he expresses (p. 178) the firm conviction that the manifold
forms of the old Egyptian Pantheon were nothing but
religious masks of the sublime doctrine of the unity of the
Deity, communicated to the initiated in the mysteries ; and
M. Pierrot, an eminent French savant, also concurs in this
opinion, and says, “ The Gods of the Pantheon were only
manifestations of the Ooe Being in His various capacities;”*
and I think a consideration of the sacred poetry left us by
the ancient Egyptians will sufficiently prove the truth’of
these assertions. Here is part of the translation of a hymn
now to be seen among the papyri in the British Museum,
and which well expresses the religious thoughts prevalent
among the higher cultured classes of the Egyptians at the
time of the exodus, and which, I think, proves conclusively
their recognition of a supreme God, unknown and incon¬
ceivable :—“ He causeth growth to fulfil all desires. He
never wearies of it. He maketh his might a buckler. He is
not graven in marble as an image bearing the double crown.
He is not beheld. He hath neither ministrants nor offerings.
He is not adored in sanctuaries ; His abode is not known.
No shrine is found with painted figures of Him; there is
no building that can contain Him. . . . Unknown is His
name in Heaven. He does not manifest His forms; vain are
all representations of Him.” Here, again, is another
sublime passage from a hymn to Osiris, first trans¬
lated by M. Chabas:—“ He has made the world with
its waters, its atmosphere, its vegetation, all its
flocks, and birds, and fish, and reptiles ! Glory to
thee who hast created all that exists. . . . Thou hast no
being second to Thee. He is self-created. His commence¬
ment is from the beginning. He is the God that has
existed from all times. There is no God without Him. No
mother bore Him, no father hath begotten Him. God
goddess created from Himself. All gods came into existence
when He began.” So also Plutarch tells us in his ninth
chapter “ On Isis and Osiris,” that on the veil which over¬
hung the shrine of the temple of Neith at Sais (which word
<£ Neith ” literally means I came from myself”) there was
inscribed this sentence :—“ I am that was, and is, and is to
be; and my veil no mortal hath yet drawn aside.”
The hymn to the Sun, translated by M. Chabas, shows that
however earnestly the old Egyptian sages sought to express
the infinite nature of God in the variety of symbols they
found in nature; however varied might be the names by
which He was addressed, still under all symbols and all
names there was the recognition of one supreme Creator, the
uncreated, the Father of the universe. The passage in the
hymn of which I have just spoken amply proves this, is the
following:—
“ Hail to Thee, Lord of the Lapse of Time. King of Gods,
Thou of many names, of holy transformations, of mysterious
forms!” How strikingly does this resemble the passage I
have already quoted from the Rig Veda, “ That which is
* i’nc Hint, dus TtmpUs dc, l Ot ic l, dap, 1- Paris, 1S76.
One the wise call by many names and in divers manners;
they call it Agni, Yamn, Indn, Varuna. Wise poets make
the beautiful-winged, though He be One, manifold by
words.”
But this grand conception of the oneness of the Supreme
was no mere cold, abstract reverence and awe of “ the un¬
known and unknowable.” In the hearts of these old
Egyptian sages and poets there glowed warmer feelings. In
their hymns they call Him their Father, and themselves
cc sons beloved of their Father.” Here are passages which
most strikingly recall similar thoughts and utterances in the
sacred poetry of the Hebrews:—u Thou art the Giver of
Life, Toucher of the hearts, Searcher of the inward parts of
Man. The soul of man is no secret to Him that made it.
He is present with thee, though thou be alone.” But time
warns me that I must not dwell much longer on these
exalted ideas which these old Egyptian poets had formed of
God, and I therefore quote but one more hymn, which well
illustrates the exultant and joyous nature of their worship.
“ Hail to Thee! say all creatures;
Salutation from every land,
To the heights of Heaven,
To the breadth of Earth,
To the depths of the Sea,
The gods adore Thy Majesty.
The Spirits Thou hast made exalt Thee.”
u Everyone glorifies Thy goodness, mild is Thy love towards
us. Thy tenderness surrounds our hearts; great is Thy love
in all the souls of men. Let not Thy face be turned away
from us. The joy of our hearts is to contemplate Thee. . . .
Hail to Thee, Lord of all truth, whose shrine is hidden;
who listeneth to the poor in his distress; gentle of heart
when we cry unto Thee. Deliverer of the timid from the
violent; judging the poor and the oppressed. Lord of mercy
most loving ; at whose coming men live; at whose goodness
all rejoice. Sovereign of life, health, and strength. .. .
Speak nothing evil of the great Creator, even if the words
are spoken in secret in the hearts.
‘Rejoicing before the feet of the begetter,
They cry out, Welcome to Thee,
Father of the Father of all the gods,
Who raiseth the heaven,
Who fixeth the earth.
Maker of beings, creator of existences,
Sovereign of life, health, and strength,
Chief of the Gods ;
We worship Thy spirit who alone hast made us.
We whom Thou hast made, thank Thee
That Thou hast given us birth.
We give to Thee praises for all
Thy mercy towards us 1’ ”
And now, what are the practical lessons we may take to
heart from a comparative study of the religious poetry of
these ancient races ? There are three. We shall find that
religions in their oldest and most primitive form, or in the
minds of their authors are, in general, free from many of the
blemishes which attach to them in later times. We shall
learn that there is hardly one religion which does not contain
some truth, some important truth : truth (as Professor Max
Muller says) to enable those who seek the Lord and feel
after Him to find Him in their hour of need; and lastly, we
shall not fail to appreciate more than ever all that is good
and excellent in our own and every form of religion.
)
AN EVENING WITH MRS. GIRLING.
She entered the Romsey Town Hall with seven women and two men;
] j i stood forward on the platform at a low table with a Bible. For a few
i ) i moments she looked steadily at the people, and waited until they were
j |! quiet. They all then knelt down in silent prayer about three minutes,
i (| She afterwards rose and said, “ We live in a Christian country, and I am
Ijj bound to treat you as Christians. We are ChristianCommonists. We
| j i are Christian Commonists. We are united children of one Father;
] (| you are children of the same Father. We shall, therefore, I am sure of
j j it, spend a pleasant evening. Form a righteous and just judgment.”
! < | They all then sang a hymn sweetly and softly. Mrs. Girling after-
| i wards continued: If a word should be said to-night you do not under-
15 i stand leave it to the empty chairs. And yet I desire a word for every-
! I body. You have all had various thoughts, and come to various conclu-
111 sions about me; but I wish to speak to you not of my own word. And
i) j I do not wish to speak to you about the paper of this book, or that which
| j i is on the paper, so much as that which is contained in it. No; more
111 than that, of the Author who gave it—Christ.
i) i This is by all England considered the unadulterated word of God
i' (holding out the Bible). I am sometimes accused of speaking contrary
111
April 11, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
to this word, but I know nothing, and for years have known nothing hut
this book. I have suffered for it. I have lived for it. It is impossible
that anything should pass away out of this book unless it be fulfilled.
God has given me grace and patience to endure persecution and diffi¬
culty through testimony to this book. It is God’s message, not mine, I
have to give you. M. A. Girling is not here to-night; please to con¬
sider that I am not here. I came here only in the name of Jesus, and
by the spirit of Jesus. He is God, manifest in the fiesh; nothing less,
nothing more.
The message is to all, a full, free, perfect, and complete salvation for
body and soul. Can there be any better news ? But you say, “ We
have heard that for years and years.” Yes, with the outward ear. Ah,
but there is an inward ear by which it must be heard, for life or death.
It must he heard.
What is the beginning of that full and free salvation ? Jesus Christ
died to put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself. If Christ put away
your sins once and for ever by His sacrifice, it is impossible for them to
be still not put away. They are or they are not, once and for ever, this
moment or not at all, put away. They were put away once and for
ever—-the sins—and here is the record (holding out the Bible). Put
away ! What is that ? Put away, is put away. If so, what is your
condition at this moment ? You are free as the air—free, quite free.
Man likes freedom. So Christ the Lord pronounces you, and He wills
you to be free from sin.
But how to be free from sin ? That is the question; and that is the
easiest thing and yet the hardest. We must all go together to-night.
We are going to heaven, and we must all go together. I am sure,
wicked as people say we are, we are going.
Are you a son of God ? a daughter of God ? You are, or you are
not. I say openly that the devil was not able to create, and never
allowed to create. We are every one of us sons of God. Yes, and
every one of you. I wish to impress this upon you—the close relation¬
ship between you and God. I make no distinction between minister
and people, between workmen and others. There is one point to which
when all come they are equal. When you come to that point all “isms
go. Brought straight home to God, there is no creed between Him and
us. Nothing can come between you and God—not even death. Such is
your relationship to God. Nothing can come between—no doctrine, no
creed, no church—nothing can come between. As near as Christ the
Son is to God the Father (Jesus is His name), so near are you.
So close was this relationship of the Son to the Father that He
always acknowledged it, and because He so constantly realised it He
never sinned. Men get so many things between them and God; men
get their brains between God and them. But He wants the heart as a
centre where He may dwell. The veritable Father that was in Christ
is in you; and because men do not acknowledge God they acknowledge
sin.
I do not care what men think; I tell you what God tells me. When
God says your sins are put away, whose fault is it if you acknowledge
sin ? There is one who would have you acknowledge sin—Satan. He
would have you acknowledge sin.
God embodied Himself, in His fulness, in the body of Jesus Christ.
In that one you behold the Trinity, and the unity of the Trinity—not
three Gods, one God. It puzzles my brain, three Gods! I do not
know which is mine. I acknowledge one; but I acknowledge three
Infinite Powers in that one. In the beginning was the Word, and the
Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the
beginning with God. All things were made by Him, &c. The Spirit is
the spirit of love. God is love. Let us make man.
I see the image of God before me. I am delighted to see you are
none other than the expressed image of God, though you are in nature.
There is only one Person—the Lord Jesus Christ by nature, the Father
by love. In that veritable body He so manifested His likeness to men
that He eat and drank, and so on. And He showed God’s purpose of
what He intended man to enjoy.
By the law of nature men were sinners; but after Christ’s death and
resurrection they were raised from that state. From the moment Jesus
expired (and remember your Father was in that body of Jesus), and
from the moment He shed the last drop of His blood, He condemned
the law of nature and sin in Himself and destroyed it. He could say,
“ I am the sword that slew everything evil. I am the Son of the living
God. 1 am God manifested in the flesh to destroy sin in the flesh. I
slew in Me in the life I lived, and in the work I did all the pride, all the
strife, all the sin of man, &c. Father, I thank Thee that Thou hast hid
these things from the wise and prudent, and revealed them unto babes.”
He was but a babe. I wish to be such a babe.
(Singing, solo and chorus, soft and gentle, now intervened.)
After having suffered all the temptations common to man—not half of
it, but all—yet without sin, Satan came and found nothing in Him.
Why was He tempted, yet without sin ? People used to teach me that
to have temptation was to sin; but it is not so. Thoughts are not sin.
Can you help them? No. What you see you think about. Can you
help it ? No. You see green; well, you cannot help seeing it is green.
Temptation is not sin. “ He cometh and findeth nothing in Me.” No
sooner was the last enemy slain in the body of Jesus, through God
within the human body Jesus could say, “I have slain sin within men.”
Christ fulfilled all and slew all evil. Yet the priests have not been
willing to give up and receive Him, but have kept Moses and let Christ
go. Jesus consented to be destroyed, to be suspended between heaven
and earth, that He might prove to you and me that He had the power
to give life and put down evil; to give life and take it up, and put it
down ; to put it down and take it again.
Did He look anything like the Son of God when He hung there on
the cross, when in humiliation and weakness He suffered ? Yet was
He truly the Son of God ; yea, God Himself. He lay down the life of
the body, and took it again. He slew then everything which had
destroyed. It is the will of God to restore. It is the will of God to
!| glorify these forms, these bodies. God made you and your forms.
Everything is beautiful; but then it requires the beautiful to see the
beautiful. It requires purity to see purity. He had in it His mind to
glorify these temples. It was in His mind to raise that veritable body
! which He laid down.
I Christ rose triumphant over death. It was the self-same body, bones,
! sinews, which lay down in the tomb. Only this difference—put to
death in the flesh and quickened by the spirit. The very self-same
spirit may he in you in power. If the spirit of Him that raised up
! Jesus from the dead be in you, He that raised up Christ from the dead
j shall also quicken your mortal bodies by His spirit that dwelleth in you.
| What is mortal ? Animated material, like my body. He raised up the
j body of Jesus complete as it was. Did it appear to any one ? Yes, to
1 /1 many.
j (| There is the word of God everywhere, proving that God had power to
i) | restore everything as at the first—not only restore the soul, but the
j) j body. There was, and is, an agony for the redemption of the body, and
| < | until that body is restored to its proper position and honour, God’s work
i ) j is not done.
|) i Did it ever strike you that your bodies are the temple of God ?
| j | What do you build houses for—to look at, or to dwell in ? What did
! ) | God build those bodies for ? Those bodies of yours are formed for the
i ) | habitation of the spirit, which temples are holy. May God the Father,
| (; who was in Jesus, impress upon every one of your heart’s memories
j 11 that your bodies are temples, which temples are holy.
The blood of your Father which was in Jesus made you free whether
i j 1 you acknowledge it or not. Man’s way of putting it is, Sins may be
! /1 forgiven. God’s way ia,'tThey are forgiven. “ Free from the law of
i j sin.” Cast thyself upon the works and merits of another; upon the
j .) blood of Christ. Every true Christian will do that when he comes to
i) i die. How much more reasonable to do it now. There is no merit
j ( | required. Claim freedom. Say, “ I am free.” That is the way to
S ) i God. Say, “ I am free by the sacrifice of the Father in the Son.” That
| / | very thing being freedom to you. “ Do you believe that you are my
| ( | son?” says a father to a son. The son replies, “ I know only by your
i ; j word.” It is so with God the Father, who asks you, “ Do you believe
|) r you are my son 1”
i < j If I am freed from the curse, why do I not avail myself of the free-
|) | dom? God says to you, “You are My son, by nature.” We are His
I ) i by offspring. We are all God’s offspring. But He says more—“ I will
i 11 malce you My son by the Spirit ”—by the blood and by spirit. Whose
11 | house is this ? You say, Mr. Johnson’s. He built it; he paid for it;
) i it is his. What did he build it for, but that he might dwell in it?
! (i Your body, your temple, is God’s house. Will you let God come and
1 dwell in it? You are an animated being, and have power to say yes.
A house has not. You have power to acknowledge that you are God’s
own temple. If you do acknowledge it, you will ask Him to fill the
i temple with Himself. That is what He has been waiting for for six
|; | thousand years. He has been waiting to restore man to all his rights
! (I and privileges.
You must acknowledge these things at death; you must do it at
| (I death ; you must give in then, when grim death comes. Why not
j) | now ? Let me honestly and lovingly say, do acknowledge that the
j) | whole body is the temple of God. “ Sanctify them by Thy truth.”
111 The words I say to you are truth; your bodies are His temple. No
1) i one ought to occupy those temples but your Father. “ I will walk in
|) i them and dwell in them.” What is it, if God walks in my temple and
111 your temple, how near are we related to each other: God to God,
j [ i brother to brother.
| j i Let me ask you young people especially to present your bodies as
111 living sacrifices, that you may be filled, that you may be saved from
suffering, from disease, from death. Give your bodies to God while
151 young, as temples of God, while they have no weakness, no grey hairs,
j 11 Say, young people—“ Take my body, take my soul; fill this young
temple, and let it be Thy temple for ever; that suffering, decay, and
|) i death may be abolished for ever.”
|: i [All now sang a hymn, with hallelujah chorus. During the singing
j; j one of the young women began to whirl and dance, with face uplifted,
i; i and eyes looking right up under her eyelids. The dance was a kind of
slow, wavy, whirling, gliding motion; the hands were held upward.
I i | The sight was not pleasant, and several ladies left the hall, rather
] 11 nervous.] Mrs. Girling then said:—
I solemnly declare that that (pointing to the dancing girl) is nothing
11 j but God in the body. “ If the Spirit of Him that raised up Jesus from
i) | the dead dwell in you, He that raised up Christ from the dead shall
| j i also quicken your mortal bodies by His Spirit that dwelleth in you.”
j j i It is not mesmerism. It is not an evil spirit. If you ask for the Holy
i ■ i Spirit, will He give you the devil? That is a witness of an outward
I (I and visible sign of an eternal power. The dispensation which is now
| ) | announced is the beginning of an order of things in which the Spirit of
! 11 God will take full possession of the body. Those who consecrate their
| \ 1 bodies may have that. The body and soul cannot be separated ; the
|) | spirit and the body may, but not the soul and the body. The soul is
I: | the five senses. . . .
I) j Everything in the body is to be possessed by God ; the tongue, for
I) j instance. Speak evil of no man, of no woman, not even of me. I will
; j | not of you. The tongue is to be possessed and purified, and all the
I) | members and senses. The pure in heart see God. If God dwells in
11 I your temple and mine, the first thing He does is to purify everything
11 : within. It is easy for God to see God. If God is in your temple there
hi is clearness of vision. I know no nearer place for God to be to me
|) j than for Him to be here in me. “ He is not far from every one of us.
] i We are his offspring.”
|) | No man can purify himself. God will purge out every particle of evil,
|) ! but He must have the whole temple. Nothing must be kept back. He
i ) ; must have every particle of the body. It is impossible that there should
hi be procreation and regeneration at the same time.
178 THE SPIRITUALIST. April 11. 1879.
(The central point of her teaching begins to appear here.) j |
(Another hymn is sung by the community.) j j
(The girl has continued all this time moving about in her peculiar i
dance.) I
The body must be given up entirely. The time is being ushered in, j
and is close upon us, when there will be the coming of the Lord to j
receive such temples to be glorified. The time is ushering in when the j!
tabernacle of God must be in men. The dispensation is approaching, j
I do not prophesy. I only testify what God speaks to me by His Spirit. |
Prophecy fails. I speak of that which takes place in me. Nothing now j
but God for the body, God for the soul, God for the whole being. That |
is soon to come. It is foreshadowed. There is the shadow in the morning, i
but no shadow at midday. The return of the self-same Jesus is at hand, i
the very same Jesus. Why should the glorification of the body be a |
disputed fact ? It is true. There are two witnesses. The Almighty j
has declared it. Enoch was the witness under the first dispensation, j j
He never passed through dying. When Christ died, all nature died in j |
the Spirit and in His form. In the second dispensation another witness |
was given, Elijah, who did not pass through death. To-day, the I
despised handmaid who stands before you is a witness. There will be j
no other witness before His coming. I am the last. j U
Who will surrender themselves that their bodies shall be raised j !
beyond the law of death ? There is a promise that this should be so. j (j
Why should it not be so now ? The triumph over death commenced j |
with the glorification of Christ. It will be completed in the same way. j j
How is Christ coming ? The only true way of declaring this is by i j j
testimony. When the Lord Jesus shall come He shall be glorified in j U
His saints and admired in them that believe. Paul knew there would j j
be a glorification of the body, and he spoke of looking for His appearing, j j j
And when you look for a thing do you look with your face toward it or i (j
away from it ? In what way are you to look for this appearing of the j
Lord Jesus Christ and the glorification of the body? You are not to j 1 j
look into the grave; you are not to look to die. Life is real, God is j! i
real, and you are real. To-day is the day when the Lord is about to be j [ i
revealed to those who look for His appearing; to those who look for His 1 j
appearing, to those who have wholly given up their bodies as His j j i
temples to Him. No one will see Him without holiness.
God is about to draw the curtain. He is about to say, “ I cannot I j j
look upon any longer the race so hard-hearted, so cruel, so impure, so j | j
war-loving, slaying one another.” God can bear it no longer. He is j 1
about to say, “ I must turn My back, lest I become a pillar of fire.” ] J i
& Christ is in every one of you except ye be reprobates. How is He i j
coming ? Will you believe me if I tell you ? Whether you believe me j j j
or not I testify. |||
Years ago I knew that God was my Father—my own Father as near j |
as ever I could have a Father—-that my sins were forgiven. But after j [
that He came to me and changed me. He changed every bone in my j I
body; I felt I was no longer the same; I was in ecstasy, and I was j j
filled with love. It seemed as though I were no longer material. When j j
that blessed and immortal and divine Spirit came down into this inner j ||
form I felt as though I had never had a bone in my body ; and from that j |
moment I have never felt the same being as before. From head to foot j \ j
and in my very centre He enabled me to consecrate myself entirely to | (j
Him. After that He gave me that internal, immortal realisation that [! |
He had destroyed the seeds of disease and death within me. Since that | j
time I have had no disease, no suffering, except for others. j j |
Some time after that He revealed Himself to me in the form of Jesus, j 1 j
No flesh can see God. He revealed Himself to me in the body of His I |
Son Jesus Christ; He changed me so that I could see Him and talk to j | j
Him face to face. This was the demonstration of the spirit and power, j j
(Interruption and questions.) 1|
I am no favoured person. I saw Him. He unveiled Himself to me. j (]
His words were, “ Tell the Church and the world the full, free, com- j i
plete, perfect salvation of body and soul is about to take place; tell j j
them that the temple of the body is Mine.” I have the distinct recol- j j
lection that I must suffer if I accepted this mission, but He said to me, I j
f My child, suffering grace shall be thine.” He also said, “ I have j j
purposed to restore all things. I am coming in your day.” But He is j j
coming at first not in judgment. On their not accepting this message j i
and salvation He will come in judgment. He revealed to me all passages j | j
from Genesis to Revelation relating to the redemption of the body, and j j
He gave me the key to read them. One word of His would flash all ] | f
these things through you. j j
In answer to a question, she said, You ask me where it was. It was I !
in my own room. It was not a trance, it was a transformation. I know j j j
I have seen Him. He revealed Himself to me distinctly; three times j (j
distinctly. He revealed Himself to me a fourth time distinctly—a fifth j (j
time. The way in which He would come, mind, is not in judgment at S||
first. There are conditions. The last time He appeared to me I j (j
acknowledge I shrank back from the mission. I had a rebellious dis- i) i
position for the time, and I said, “No, I can’t go.” Mark. In one | j
moment He changed the visage of His form in such an ineffable over- i (j
whelming way that it thrilled me, and He said, Don’t you love Me I > j
enough to go ? It thrilled me, and my rebellion ceased. j H
# # # # # # : ) !
A good deal of questioning and disturbance rose towards this point. | (j
She was asked how she knew that it was Jesus, and not some one in the i j!
spirit world who was personating Jesus Christ ? She was told that j 1 j
others professed to have received a revelation from Jesus Christ; that a iff
person in America specially said that Jesus Christ and His bride, Lady j j |
Yessa, had appeared to him, and given him a commission, which did not i (
exactly agree with hers. When there were various voices, and various j (i
testimonies, which were to be believed? She said she knew it was the j j |
Lord Jesus Christ. It was said to her that she had stated some very i i j
important truths; but most of what she said as about to take place was | (i
believed by many as the final result of the work and power of the Lord; i |:
but it did not need a personal appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ to
say what was in the Bible already.
In an interview afterwards, she stated privately that she had never
been ill since this change had taken place in her body. She had had
no pain, no disease, no sickness, no suffering except on account of others.
I said to her I believed in tbe redemption of the body, and that it was
evidently indicated in the Word that there would be all that she had
stated in God’s own time and manner. But I expected much more. I
expected that when this change really took place, and the quickening
and the glorification of the body came about, that it would be much
more wonderful than what I saw before me. It would not be the mere
absence of pain and sickness, and disease and suffering, but that I should
have no grey hairs, no unsound teeth. There would be beauty and
strength and great glory visible in the body. It would be the presence
of the glory of the body in its fulness. The appearance of Mrs.
Girling is not specially fascinating. She appears worn and weakened by
age. Her hair is turning grey, her eyes are sunken, and her cheek¬
bones are rather prominent. She is not glorified in appearance.
I asked, “ Suppose such a thing should happen that your body were
to die; would that disprove your testimony ? ” “ No; it would be
because of some violation.” “ Have any of your community passed
through the same change?” “Yes.” “How many?” “Several.”
“More than a dozen?” “Yes, more than a dozen.” She said, “I
could not speak fully of one part of my testimony in public; they are
not in a state to hear it; they would turn and rend me.”
Privately she stated, “ I am not at liberty to say how soon the Lord
will come.” She intimated that she knew. “ But,” she said, “it will
be soon, very, very soon. I may tell you that there will be no other
witness before He comes. I am the last.”
“ Will He come to all at once,” I asked, “ or will He come indi¬
vidually to each as there is a preparedness ? ” As far as I can
remember she said, “ To individuals as they are ready; then He will
gather all His own together and dwell with them. He will appear and
not appear. He will not be seen by those who are not prepared by
faith and surrender. There will be a time when He will come and
appear to all. Every eye shall see Him. The heavens shall part and
roll together as a scroll. I know what it is like ; I have seen it all.
Then will appear the sign of the Son of Man in the Heavens.”
“ What sort of appearance had the Lord when He appeared to you ?”
“ He was most glorious; He was clothed with an ethereal garment,
glistening. The colour of his hair I could not say, because the glory
was so bright shining upon it. His eyes sparkled like the glittering of
the moon on the ripples of the sea on a bright moonlight night. His
face was most beautiful, and He was above the medium height.”
“ Had He any marks ? ” “ Yes; He opened His garment and showed
me the wound in His side, which seemed ready to start with blood
when I showed a disposition not' to believe, but dried up when I
believed.”
“ But do you not violate the word of God—the word of Jesus Him¬
self, who spoke against separation and divorce—by being separated
from your husband, except for the one legitimate cause which Jesus
Himself indicated ? Gan one word of the Lord be contradicted by
another word which He afterwards speaks ?”
She replied—“ I could do no other. I loved my husband and my
children. It was a great struggle for my heart to leave himand I
hesitated, and I was entirely prostrate for many weeks. You would
have done no other if you had been in my case.”
Whether she understood me or not, I objected on the principle that
no plain word of God could be contradicted by any supposed vision or
real vision. S. B. B.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN CAPE TOWN.
BT BERKS T. HUTCHINSON.
On Tuesday, the 9th December, my wife, mother, niece,
and myself had a special sitting in my private stance room,
commencing at 8 p.m. After being properly seated, without
hands being joined, seven spirit forms showed themselves,
three of which came right up to us, so that we could distin¬
guish their features. Abdullah came within two feet of me,
and as the gas was burning in a line with his head, close to
him, I had a good opportunity of scrutinising his features.
His nose was quite different to that of the medium, as well
as those of the other spirit forms I have seen within six
inches of my eyes. The latter had flattish noses, and were
said to be Turks, and looked like them. The spirit, or
psychic form (whatever you choose to call it) in question,
came out, and went to the table in front of us, and a little on
one side of the opening of the cabinet; it seemed to look for
something, but not finding it, retired behind the curtains for
a few moments, and returned; then, with a rapid and
resolute step went, or more correctly speaking, glided up
to the mantelpiece, some eight feet from the cabinet,
hurriedly grasped some blank cards I had left there,
then went back to the table, deliberately took a chair,
moved it up to the table, sat down, looked at some paper,
and then took one of the blank cards it had brought from
the chimneypiece, and began writing something on it with a
lead pencil we had left on the table.
We all saw the motion of the pencil and of the hand
April 11, 1879.
179
THE SPIRITUALIST.
guiding it, and I immediately remarked that the noise made jj
by the pencil was exactly like the sound of a telegram being | >
transmitted by the Morse telegraphic code. I knew this, I j
as I was connected with the electric telegraph in America 1 (
some fifteen or twenty years ago, and was, and am still, able I;
to read messages by what is termed “ sound,” without the jv
aid of a registering apparatus with paper. The form remained | \
Writing for about what I thought to be sixty or ninety seconds— j)
a long time if one watches the minute hand of a watch—then |)
quickly rose up from the chair, turned towards us, bowed, and j j
then retired. After it had gone, one of Mr. Eglinton’s guides !)
remarked that we had just had a very high spirit, alluding to j (
the one in question. This was said whilst the second spirit jj
was in front of the cabinet, materialising himself in front of |)
our eyes, and producing yards of some sort of whitish material I (
from apparently nothing. |
I must here remark that at one time Mr. Eglinton was | j
led into the middle of the room, within two feet of me, by a |
spirit form, who left him sitting, on a chair, and waited at |
the entrance of the cabinet till the medium returned, and !
then took him back. The spirit had white garments, whilst |
Mr. Eglinton had his ordinary dark-brown clothes on, and j <
both being seen together, left us nothing more to desire in | j
the shape of what people call a test. Si
After the seance had ended I went up to the table and U
looked at the card I had seen the form writing on, and to my jj
great surprise I found it filled with characters which I at j
once recognised as those used in the Morse code of signals j j
when I was in America. There was a cross underneath. It | j
was to me, and read as follows :—
“To Berks Hutchinson, greeting: Tuesday.—May God bless and jj
prosper your efforts in the propagation of the Divine principles of j (
Spiritualism. I am a worker, but am one from the crystal spheres. j'
“+ F.” 11
In the centre of the original cross, on looking closely, I j!
saw a miniature head. The cross is an ancient symbol, and j
is known in connection with phallic worship, and astrono- j
mical and masonic symbols as representing God, and from
what I know of the subject of spirit communion, any spirit j
who makes that sign—I mean the cross—must be of “ good
report.” Being able to send a telegram at any time, I j
thought I would time the transmission and compare it with I
the time the spirit did it in. With an improvised “ key,” ;
at a moderate rate, I did it in 100 seconds; but if I mani¬
pulated quickly I could do it in less than 60; but it would
be next to impossible for one without years of practice to do
it under the conditions it was done. I know that the form j
was not Mr. Eglinton, and that he knows nothing about j
telegraphy. I heard the synchronous action of the sound of j
writing, and the motion of the pencil, and to prove that my I
sense of hearing and knowledge of telegraphy were not
wrong, on getting the card there were the characters not j
in the code used to-day in England and here, but in that of j
my time, twenty years ago in America. What will the
school of theosophists say? No submundane influences
would produce such a result; and one thing I am certain of, j
viz., that the form was not that of the medium, but one j
possessed of attributes and functions that none but human I
beings possess. To me this is one of the most conclusive
evidences of our theory that has ever been had, for to prove I
to our minds that it was no subjective image, it wrote a j
message which was done in symbols not known to any but j
myself, which proved to be a message from some form having i
a mind, and capable of giving expression to its ideas, j
Every fact that can be proved goes to swell the evidence we j
possess to prove the theory of spirit communion.
Cape Town, South Africa.
A Good Worker.—One of the resignations of membership of the
National Association of Spiritualists accepted at the Council meeting
last Tuesday was that of Miss Kislingbury, who, in the founding of
the Association, and for some years subsequently until she became
more interested in other subjects than Spiritualism, did a vast amount
of good'work for the benefit of the organisation. Her excellent edu¬
cation and knowledge of several foreign languages, combined with
practical ability, rendered her an excellent secretary, whose value was
fully recognised, especially by the more refined people connected with
the spiritual movement. In spare time she has made many valuable
contributions to the literature of Spiritualism, through the pages of The
Spiritualist.
SPONTANEOUS APPARITIONS.
There are striking coincidences in Spiritualism, even in
apparent anomalies. In the extract quoted in The
Spiritualist of March 28th, from the Rev. Charles Beecher’s
book on Spiritualism, in his account of the second sight of
Dr. C. E. Stowe, a professor at Hartford, we read that two
of the professor’s nightly visitants as a boy, when residing
at home, were the apparitions of an ancient player of the
violin* and his wife, and that on the day that young Stowe
went to visit an uncle, these apparitions came there also,
but only once; they seem to have been disconcerted at the
new abode, and never returned. The most singular part,
however, of the story is that of the seer beholding the
actions of this elderly couple as he lay in bed, after they
had passed the walls of the room. Dr. Stowe says, “I
heard the old woman say, i we can’t stay here,’ and imme¬
diately I saw them passing through the hall of the house.
I saw after them as clearly as if the wall had dissolved and
given my eyes a vision of all out-doors. They went to my
grandfather’s wood pile, and looked irresolutely round;
finally, they mounted on the pile, and seemed to sink
gradually through it and disappear.” I would now recall to
you a case of a like nature, that of a person still seeing the
spirit after it had passed through the wall, contained in your
journal of August 10th, 1877, and translated from the
Revue Spirite of June of that year. Whatever the violin-
player and his wife may have been, subjective or not, this
1 other spirit was a very material one indeed. Moreover, he
was seen, not only by the narrator, but by his wife. This
J spirit had first appeared to his friend, the narrator, and his wife
j some time previously, telling him that he was “just dead,”
j which afterwards was proved to be true, and giving the most
j materialistic evidence of his presence that I, perhaps, ever
! read of. But it is on a subsequent visit that I find the
| coincidence which I desire to relate—that of the spirit being
still seen after he had passed through the walls of the room.
The narrator, who is referred to as an officer, and a man of
j acknowledged honour, then tells his tale:—
“ Since then, my friend appeared once more, four months
j back. Again my wife awoke me, frightened at the noises
I that she heard in the house. After a short time ive saw a
j human form walking about the chambers. I recognised
j Y . He was examining, with curiosity, everything that
j he came near to; he was rummaging the drawers and
j leaving nothing in its place. Finding a scentbottle on the
j washstand, he turned towards me, smelling it, and said to
I me, i Odours ! that’s pretty for an old trooper? ’
“ Afterwards he passed into other rooms of our apart-
! ments, and (I know not how to account for this) spite of
the walls that separated me from him^ spite of the dim light
j that lighted him, I saw him distinctly from my bed, without
j losing one of his movements. In the chamber where the
j servant slept, he stooped for an instant over the forehead of
j the girl and kissed it.”
Besides the above coincidence of a ghost being seen first
of all in a chamber where a person was in bed, and afterwards
| when it had passed through the walls, both by a Frenchman
j and by an American, there appear to me other incidents
j worth remarking on in these details. This French officer
| tells us that after the ghost had passed through the walls,
| “ spite of the dim light that lighted him, I saw him dis¬
tinctly.” By this we learn that the spirit carried a light, dim
j as it was, or that a light radiated from his form. Next that,
i notwithstanding the dimness of the light, the narrator saw
i the figure distinctly after it had passed through the wall.
| And by this it would appear that, at the time being at any
j rate, this officer, of whom there is no mention that he was
| ever before subject to second sight, was, like Professor Stowe,
j on this occasion endued with that abnormal faculty, which
j probably was not the case with his wife, since nothing is said
j of her seeing the spirit after it had passed through the walls,
i although she saw him plainly enough before, as she did again
| when he re-entered the room, and was again filled with
I terror. The first time this very materialised spirit appeared,
| j when only just dead, there was a fire in the room, and the wife
[ I was the first to see him there.
And now to turn to another subject, suggested by your
(j extracts from the Religio-Philosophical Journal, on Presenti-
180
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 11, 1879.
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
merits of Deathf in The Spiritualist of March 28th. Let
me repeat what I heard from the lips of a university under¬
graduate last autumn. He said that there is a clergyman,
the incumbent of a parish near where he lives, who always
knows when a parishioner is going to die, for he sees his
apparition passing through his churchyard some time before
the decease. My friend, the undergraduate, added that this
clergyman never disguises this fact, but tells it all round.
My young friend added, alluding to himself and the neigh¬
bouring clergy—for he seems already to consider himself as all
but one of them, and not among the least—“ 0, we chaff him
so for it! ” Thus we see what spiritual gifts have come to
in the eyes of “ spiritual persons.” Alas, that it should be
so I The young man went on to say, “ I have a great mind
to dress myself up as a ghost, and pass through his church¬
yard, and then shan’t we have our laugh at him ?” This was
too much for a gentleman who was present, who quietly
remarked, “If I saw you going through my churchyard
dressed like a ghost, I would shoot you without compunc¬
tion.” At this my young friend, who is an amiable, right-
thinking young man when not perverted, looked rather
abashed, so his interlocutor somewhat reassured him by
saying, “Any one, you know, may shoot a ghost, the ball
passes right through him without hurting.” Whether the
interlocutor was quite right in this last remark I am inclined
to doubt. I think, myself, that even a spontaneous haunting
ghost does feel a sudden blow. As far as I can remember
from my readings, it generally retires when it has been shot
at. At any rate, it feels a bayonet, if the story is true, as
told, I think, in one of your back numbers, on the testimony
of a doctor on an unhealthy station near the west coast of
Africa, when the ghost of another doctor, his predecessor, in
attempting to pass a sentry, was run through by a bayonet.
The story goes on to say that the ghost gibbered and turned
away.
I do not feel at liberty to publish the neighbourhood of the
clergyman who sees the doubles of his parishioners in the
churchyard before their death, but I confide it to the editor
of The Spiritualist.' Scrutator.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Spibitualists in Spain and its dependencies so frequently send us letters,
book-packages, and newspapers, without prepaying the postage, that they
commonly arrive accompanied by a charge of about a shilling each. In
future they will pot be received unless the postage is prepaid.
Will be Published in a few Davs.
Cloth. Crown 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings. Post Free.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES,
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
The book is full of evidence of Spirit-Identity.
The Superfine Edition, bound in half calf, Eight Shillings and Sixpence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some important Questions in Religious
Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience: Its Place
and Function—• Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism — The
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Divine and Human
Elements.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit¬
ualism, and setting forth his experiences.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
by
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol. II, Tbeating op the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. fid.
Yol. I. may bo had, price 10s. fid.; the work complete, 22s. Gd.
CONTENTS :
Pakt II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro-
! ductory; 2. The Action of tho Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un-
| conscious Cerebration; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion; 5. Body,
; Mind, and Soul in Health.
Book II.—Tho Abnormal Action of the Mechanism.—Chapter 1. Introduction
| —The Psychology of the Future; 2. Howto be Pursued; 3. Objections and
I Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea ;
6. How we Know; 7. Scientific Evidence ; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep; 4. The Seat of
j Sleep ; 5. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream ; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream ; 8. The Phenomena of Dream; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
| 10. Conclusions.
i Book IV.—The Phenomena of Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
j 2. Insanity.
. | Book V.—The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
| ) { Somnambulism ; 3. Natural Somnambulism; 4. Artificial Somnambulism ;
j j j 5. The Phenomena of Artificial Somnambulism; 6. The Physiology of Som-
i j | nambulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
I j | Book VI. — Supersensuous Perception. —Introduction ; Chapter 1. The
| | j Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception ; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
j 11 of Supersensuous Perception.
j j j Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The Phenomena of Trance ;
j (i 2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
j 11 Book VIII.—Psychism.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. Objections and Objectors ;
j/j 2. The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force; 4. The Methods of Investigation; 5.
j | N The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic ; 7. The Physiology of Psychic
i) I Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence; 9. Phenomena of Psychism ; 10. More
! j j Phenomena of Psychism ; 11. Other Phenomena of Psychism; 12. Communi-
|)! cated Phenomena ; 13. The Physiology and Psychology of Psychism.
Book IX.—Tho Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up ; 2. Conclusions.
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
II i Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
|) ! This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
i I i observed at seances by the anthor, and a close criticism of some of the wrii-
j (j ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
ji! <{ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Just Published,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s, post free.
'The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
i i Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
j | j Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
j \ | minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
i ) i Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
| ) | writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens,
! {i The book also contains some
! i | SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
I Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
! poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
| excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. fid. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
| j By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
I 11 Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. fid., post free (Illustrated with diagram s),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
I j j The Spintualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
April 11, 1879
THE SPIRITUALIST,
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RBSEAROHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as it living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." *. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. HarmonU . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ III. „ • .76
The Reformei „ IV. „ ... 7 6
The Thinker. „ V. . a . • • • I $
Magic Staff An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . 7 6
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology. . . . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . • .20
Death and the After-Life . . . ■ .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . • .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . > • 7 0
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . • ,.36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The loner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .7
.he Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .7
fhe Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician : or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . 3 0
Mommg Lectures . . . . . . .76
2i 0
14
18 0
15
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SriaiTUALisi Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History oi American Socialisms (Noyes) .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) .
Catena ot Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) .
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. ..... . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions Inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-l-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. ...10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols . . ... IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOB DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about' or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.1
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authop and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientiflc man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that bis descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientiflc spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any |
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spirituaiistie throats, and it is oniy fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ‘hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
Sews
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientiflc
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs, Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Hr. Heme—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientiflc Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—^Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Itoss-
| Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Bane, Mr. It. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Itevd. S. Watson, and Revo. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—^Trustworthiness of SeersMp—
Swedenborg—Hardee—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—^Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPEK.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and haudsomely bound in one
In half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Variey, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom. £110s
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
M.A (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPHY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics,
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. 11. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Monls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E.H.Valter, J.L.O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E v idence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat-*
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation ot
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
Slade Tested by C. Carter Biake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvlfl,
M D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Proiessor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E. ,
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood. J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship ol Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium-
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work-by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life o) Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroliue A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.
Oxon.”
XVII  Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII  Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady ot Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burae.
XXII —A Story of a Haunted House. By E. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—•• Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —Do Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII Tne Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.’’
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIIl.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. ByAliceWorthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nauiral Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis-
lingbury
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. Bv Alex.
CaUier.
XLI Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII. Epigrams. By Gerald Massisy.
XlIH.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. ByLisette Alakdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald'Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature asid
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Iv
April 11, 1879.
Price 6d.; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
Peizb Essays.'
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OP SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. P. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National association of Spiritualists.
. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM ; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers. — This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures, of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G. A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. * It (is .an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
u A MARKED LIFE;” oiyThe Autobiography
-CjL of a Clairyoyante. By Gipsy. (Sampson Low and
Cj., publishers.) For sale at No. 2, Vernori-place, Bloomsbury-
sjuare. Price 6s.
AT MRS. PARKER’S, 66, WARWICK
STREET, BELGRAVE ROAD, LONDON, a Philo¬
sophical and Developing Circle is being formed. Those wishing
to join will please send in their names. ’ Terms on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when condi¬
tions favour. Office hours from 12 to 5 o'clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By, EUGENE CROWELL, M.D. .
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for. many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
t ie problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper'Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has' spfettd through all the
most civilised countries on the globe,' Until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirfy^eriodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse«winch at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee,'which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises.governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being todched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R S.-i editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer,'1 and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, inves'tigated itie phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own houspj and repqfted them to be true.' Mr;
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. Z'dllner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW-16 FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
: re not', they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
,2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,1' and
two mean “Doubtful," and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters, A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part l.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
X. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmea Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Maoe-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From 2%e Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.... The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the fuiiniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads.—“No one can help laughing
at them,’’ and It says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ’’ as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy, to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes witli success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays,"
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with, a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley) .’“We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The Brit ish Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of tills peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himselt.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very eiaboratelybound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If oui readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses aU while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known-contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.... Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Inqoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a rell-.
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is • How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.’’
From The Bristo ijjaily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [A.B. An
irate member oj the Town Council ojjlcially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballad-';," but the members assembled laughed at the
matte)', and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is hound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
i the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—^Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions o
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy aud Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvisiori.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling's Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid's Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental: Mesmeric -
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
na—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act ,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
■ CHAPTER IX:— Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Gdylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—useful Applications o»
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment ot Insan
ity. Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Siihieet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyllc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcratt—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER Xll:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State-^Mr. Lewis's Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—rDr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley's Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Wat
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerrim in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER xVlCurative Agency of Mesmerism—Cone udi
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood'u Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew- above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W Allen, Are
Maria-lane, London E.C.
