Registered as A Newspaper.
wttUMllP Spntwalxsm m <&xmt grHam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xx, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capueines, and 7, Rue de Lille; LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.' MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 298.—(Voii. XII.—No. 19.) LONDON FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontentg.
Religion and "War  ... ... ...  217
The Recent Attempt to Lock up Mrs. Weldon in a Mad¬
house  '... i'...' ... ...  218
The Agenda of the National Association of Spiritualists... 219
Psychography... ... ... ... . ...   219
Some Personal Experiences in Spiritualism, and Thoughts
thereon. By J. W. Gray, O.E. ...     220
The Clairvoyance of Alexis Didier. By'Henry G. Atkinson,
F.G.S., Author of Letters to Miss Martineau  222
Animals in the Next World. By Emile, Prince of Witt¬
genstein..; „. ... ...... '. 222
Aided by Spirits ... . • ...     ... 222
The Brahan Seer^A Curious Highland Prophecy—The
Doom of the Seaforths—Second-sight in the Highlands 223
Poetry:—Nature Sketches—Resurrection—Our Great Lo¬
gician—The Dead Bishop ...    .1. '... 224
Correspondence:—The Growth and Decay of Theological
Doctrines—Physical Manifestations—“ Elementaries ”
or Savages, Which?—Perplexing Experiences—The
Inspiration of Ancient Prophets—Unsolved Problems
Relating to Emigration—Spiritualism in Holland—
Weighing Mediums during Manifestations ... - ... ... 225
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena. By Eliza Boucher 228
Paragraphs:—The Spiritual Double, 217 ; Mr. J. J. Morse
in Liverpool, 219 ; Pictures of Saints among the South
Slavonians, 221 ; Voltaire, 221; Hymns for the Multi¬
tude, 222 ; Miraculous Cures ... ...    222
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ises in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including mjny eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have .published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F- Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ot Science-(1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness: His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-fiolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal: Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain: Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent. (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adeima Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy. Barrister-
at-Law: Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr. Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr. James Wason: Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
he “Life of Swedenborg”): Mr. J. M. Gully, M D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.8.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. FR.G.S. ;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.T., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Cxley; Miss Kisling-
oury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson. M D. (Australia): and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms; Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: ■ 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
AH communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38. Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
TAKEN IN EXCHANGE, on the evening
of the Soirie, May 1st, an UMBRELLA, greatly valued
by the owner, f If the same can be returned to 38, Great
Russell-street, it will afford the utmost satisfaction to the
loser. There will be another in its place.—Mrs. Limpus, 41,
Queen-square,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Offices at 38, Great RusseU-street will be closed for the
Easter Holidays on Thursday, I8th inst., and reopened on
Monday, 29th inst.  
Calendar.
Friday, 10th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Tuesday, 11th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Special
Council Meeting to follow. Motion
by Mrs. Lowe.
Wednesday, 15fh.—^Inquirers’ Seance at 8 p.m. Mr. Eg¬
linton, medium.
Friday, llth.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Monday, 20f/j.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting-, at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Mr. Desmond G.
Fitz-Gerald, on “The Conservation
of Energy,” accompanied by experi¬
ments.
Tuesday, list.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.15
p.m.
Wednesday, 22nd.—Inquirers’ Stance at 8 p.m., Mr. Eg¬
linton, medium.
Friday, 21th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ Committee’s Seance, at 7,30 p.m.
Tuesday 28th.—Soiree Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30
pm.
„ „ Annual General Meeting- of Mem¬
bers, at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 22th.—Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 31st—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
. . Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d, Trubner & Co., London.
Now Ready, Price 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
The Spiritualists’ Quarterly, for April.
CONTENTS:—
Editor’s Address.
I.—Ethics of the New Age.
II.—^Experiences of Astrology in India,
mj—Mystical Poetry.
IV.—Modern Materialism^
V.—Dante and.Beatrice.
VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Seance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Monial,
IX.—Psyehography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XI.—The Miracle Land.
 E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.  
Price 5s. 6d..' i
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
The object of the society is: to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &e., apply
to— ■  H, E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
RECITATIONS
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
During April and May, on
Wednesday Afternoons at 3 p.m. (beginning April 10th), and
Saturday Evenings at 8.16 p.m. (beginning April 13th),
N-B.—There will be no recitation May 8th.
Tickets maybe had at Mitchell’s library, 33, Old Bond-street;
Hayes’s box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall ; or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of fourteen recitations, one and a half guineas each. Single
tickets—Stalls, 3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. "ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
PEARS, 91, Great Russell-street, London.  
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
Top will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “ HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c,
post free, seven stamps.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—IH.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XT. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Jobnnv.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Snirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX “I still Live.”—
XX. Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “For a’ that..”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV- Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle.or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
London: 38, Great Russell-sfreet. W. H. H ARRISON.
IS IT TRUE?—Dr. Hugh McLeod will
presently (see future notices) be called upon by a com¬
mittee of ladies and gentlemen, organised for the purpose, to
deliver 'an intensely interesting course of lectures on the
philosophy of Ancient and Modern Spiritualism. Dr. McLeod
has investigated the entire subject, with the aid of the best
mediums in the world. All friends who may desire to assist
in any way will please address a line, in perfect confidence, to
M. M. B., Secretary to the Committee pro tern,., 12, Hamilton-
street, Camden-town, N.W. Discussion will he invited and
demonstrations proposed.  
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office days—Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 2 to 4 p.m.  
BIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851. —
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.Oi
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may fie had on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
LESSONS in French and Spanish, or English,
to Foreigners. Translations from the above Languages
also undertaken. Address by letter, VIOLA, care of Miss
Burke, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
11
THE SPIEITUALIST.
May 10, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Park-field, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald,Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, TV.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.TV.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, TV.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, TVarwick-square, S.TV.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, c. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Bogers. E. Dawson, Hose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.TV.
TVyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, TV.
Council.
Adshead, TV. P., Derby House, Belper. •
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.TV.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Bichmond Hill,
Blnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, TV. H., 94, Cornwail-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.TV.
Colley, Bev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malanar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, TV.
Dodd.'J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, B , 84. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sbooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.l C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred. E.. 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Bev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-strect, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Bev. TV TV., 118, AlbanyrStreet, Begent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, TV., 11, Mitre-courr, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Hichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Belmers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Bichmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Strawbr dge. Geo. Nelson, 84,-Bedcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G-N.. 84. ReJcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock. St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Bandolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
TV hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, 1). H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J • H, Andre, Esq, H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
. Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness. Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Bussie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Bassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
■ via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britien, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., cars of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes;Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Ohinnery,Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt. Bierre.Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue de» Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
BruxeKes.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, H, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq,, M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel ae 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Lonton, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., RosehiU, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
, W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Capo Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton. S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola.. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
ASTROLOGY, a Popular Sketch of
Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Hook, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OF ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
<fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
rip HE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
UALISM UPON THE SOOIA.L, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allbn, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price le.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7 s* 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her I
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the I
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex- |
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London : Spirit¬
ual* *t Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London:—Sxmpkin, Marshall & Co.
EAYES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
T~ HE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15a. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 88 Great RuBsell-street, London, W.C,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above. 
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
 S.W. .
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE. RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.
MRS. C. E, BASSETT,
9, CHOBHAM TERRACE, CHOBHAM ROAD, STRATFORD
 LONDON, E. 
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
 Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to. 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. , 
CURATIVE MESMERISM.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
(33 years established),
Attends Patients, and may be consulted at his residence daily
from 2 till 5,
• 10, BERKELEY GARDENS, CAMPDEN HILL, KEN¬
SINGTON.
Private Lessons in the art of Mesmerising. His Pamphlet
on “ Curative Mesmerism,” 7th Edition, price Is.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Boreugh. Diseases giveij up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m,
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISSf. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the maoifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-
etreet, Bloomsbury London. W.O.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything cf the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
A GENTLEWOMAN, living -within two
minutes’ walk of the Crystal Palace Grounds, offers a
comfortable quiet Residence with superior Board to a Lady.
Terms moderate. References exchanged. By letter—H. C.,
care of Charles Lewis, Esq., 7, Jasmine-grove, Penge, S.E.
Jt Jl^ xtf ft nvfc #f Jt^p:ufete»
Voj-ujvie Twelve. Number Nineteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 10th, 1878.
RELIGION AND WAR.
Spikitualism gradually reveals to its votaries that
“ heaven ” is not a place, but a personal and societary
condition; that we must search for heaven within, and not
without ourselves; that the state of man is one of eternal
progression ; and that by self-exertion, love of right, and
experience bought by punishment by natural law for sins
committed, does he gradually grow from the animal state to
a spiritual altitude. We shall enter no heaven we do not
make.
A heaven in which individuals shoot each other and cut
each other’s throats is inconceivable except to a savage.
Hence an aggressive war is essentially an act of iniquity, an
act in which all the lowest passions and motives of man are
let loose, and an act which, in its essence, bars out its com¬
mitters and supporters for a long time from those realms of
happiness they hope to reach hereafter, and which might be
attained now did people understand and act up to the first
principles of religion.
In civilised society, life is exceedingly unpleasant below a
certain stratum—that is to say, below the stratum where
people act with gentleness one to another, and do not take
up painfully aggressive positions. Where broils prevail,
where brawlers and would-be tyrants exert the low powers
they possess, life is repulsive to those who have outgrown
such conditions, however congenial the conditions may be to
others accustomed to such a low spiritual atmosphere. The
huts of the Todas are congenial homes to those who crawl
into them, but nauseate the few Europeans who have
attempted to live therein during the few minutes of a
friendly visit. What is true of individuals is true of nations.
The aggressor and the brawler form a nation of a low type, a
nation nearer to the savage state than to its highest attain¬
able position in the human family. A respectable man will
not mix up with a street fight, or with any other brawls,
unless as an absolutely necessary measure of self-defence,
after being attacked. If he sees that one blackguard has
knocked down another blackguard in the street, he will have
no desire to mix in the fray.
The aggressive individual in society and the aggressive
nation are equally of a low type—fearfully low when the
upshot of their aggression is wholesale murder.
On these general principles the present threatened aggres¬
sive war is at variance with the first principles of religion
and morality, especially as it is so unnecessary that scarcely
any two individuals agree as to what there is to go to war j
about. <£ But, in these matters,” say some, “ we must not j
act on firs^t principles.” That argument merely means that |
men should lead lives of expediency and not of principle;
such men are plentiful enough, and are dragging down the
nation now. They are like grasping tradesmen, who care not I
what injury they do to society, or what moral law they break j
in pursuit of their solitary aim of gaining material personal j
ascendency.
Descending somewhat lower than these general principles, j
there are yet others of a broad nature. In the semi-barbarous j
populations both of Russia and Turkey great acts of oppres- j
sion are common, but Russian civilisation is somewhat j
higher than Turkish, and the same may be said of their |
national religion. The pages of Nature prove that our j
scientific men look with respect upon some of the discoveries |
of Russian philosophers in science, but who ever dreams of [
looking for any discoveries of the kind among the Turks ? !
Thus it is better for the world that large sections of un¬
progressed territory should be under Russian rather than I
Turkish rule.
On any principles of a high character an aggressive war j
with Russia is unjustifiable. Coming down to the very j
lowest and meanest motives, those which lower the happi- i
ness of the world and the standard of civilisation, merely to
| gain materialistic advantages—the principles which are
i) degrading in an individual are degrading in a nation, and
| . when supported by wholesale murder are in the highest
11 degree criminal.
| > Some attempt has been made to introduce a little in the
i | way of religion and morality, among those who swindled
| j such large numbers of honest people by bogus limited lia¬
bility companies. A similarly healthy breeze at the present
time may serve to introduce something in the way of reli¬
gion and morality among politicians and diplomatists. The
) time may come when secret diplomacy will be abolished
( altogether, and the old proverb be no longer applicable—that
] an ambassador is one who tells lies abroad for the good of
) his country at home.
This question of war is not political in the ordinary sense
| of that word. It is a question of wholesale murder, and
|) the part each individual in the nation takes in abetting
| or trying to stop murder. Here religion should step in ;
11 and as the National Church never upraises its voice about
the deeds of its secular masters, before whom it has long
been helplessly on its knees, now is the time for those who
can speak freely to speak out.
Professor Goldwin Smith says that an English diplomatist
alleged in a despatch to the English Government about this
subject, that “the question whether 10,000 or 20,000 persons
had been slaughtered could make no difference, so long as
in the policy we followed we had a due regard to our own
| interests.” So men are to commit any atrocity from self-
| interest. This is a principle which at present holds good in
| trade, and in the attempts to drag the nation into war; it is
I a principle which has its birth and its home in the infernal
regions. Is it utterly impossible to hope to hear the English
nation saying to its neighbours in the present generation ?—
“ Our self-interest induces us to do so-and-so, but the step
would be at variance with the welfare of the world at large,
so we cannot move in the matter.” When any such words
are found in a Government despatch, politicians and diplo¬
matists will rise in the estimation of those sections of society
whose respect is worth having. They need such elevation.
The Spikitital Double.—We know that there ia upon record
i ample evidence of apparitional appearances of persona still living,
1 sometimes seen at the point of death, sometimes days before, and held
| to be death-warnings ; at other times of persons in health, and remain-
i ing so for an indefinite period; and, again, there are instances of
1 persons seeing themselves. This phenomenon, in Germany called
i j- Ddppelgangers, is attested by many learned physiologists and psycho-
i legists of that country ; and Mrs. Crowe, in her interesting work,
[ | The Night Side of Nature, proves the certainty of the appearances of
i what are called wraiths in Scotland, fetches in Ireland, and apparitions,
l or doubles, in England. Mr. Dale Owen, in his very excellent book,
j Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World, has also collected a
i! number of well-attested ghost stories, which support a belief in these
1 j spiritual or apparitional visitants. From these, and many other
, j sources, much corroborative evidence may be obtained to establish the
i j fact that the spirit forms of living persons have been seen at various
1 j times and places, and the theory which I now venture to suggest is—
, j That many manifestations which Spiritualists are accustomed to
1 j: attribute to the spirits of the departed are, in truth, effected by their
own doubles. This idea can in no degree destroy our cherished belief
in the power of departed spirits to communicate with us. On the
contrary, it tends to confirm it, for if spirits in the flesh can assume a
tangible form, and actually produce certain mechanical effects, why
I may not spirits out of the flesh be able to do all this and much more ?
| Let it be once recognised that spirit is a living entity when separated
from the fleshy body, having a dynamic power over matter, and the
| great difficulty which enshrouds the materialistio mind vanishes. I
am not wedded to a dogma on this or any other subject. I am
I earnestly in search of truth, and do not, therefore, hesitate to put
| forward any new theory for the consideration of those better qualified
I to deal with it, even if the result should be to modify or-to destroy my
j previous faith. I am only concerned to uphold—in opposition to the
! arrogant assumptions of ignorant sceptics—that the phenomena of
j which we speak are not to be attributed to delusion, to legerdemain,
or to any recognised natural cause,—B, Coleman, Spiritual Magazine,
1865,
518
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 10, 1878.
THE RECENT ATTEMPT TO LOCK UP MRS. WELDON IN
A MADHOUSE.
We are informed by Mrs. Lowe that the contents of the certificates,
and the names of the two doctors who declared Mrs. Weldon to he insane,
are not ascertainable by right, either by Mrs. Weldon at the present
time, or by any person who might have wished to rescue her had she
been locked up. An alleged lunatic is thus worse off than a criminal
before a police magistrate, for there both the offender and the public
know the nature and author of the charge. Mr. Dillwyn will see that
this is one point in which the inefficient report of the Parliamentary
Committee may be amended. An alphabetical list of all incarcerated
alleged lunatics should always be open to the gratuitous perusal of the
public, who may search therein for the names of missing sane or insane
friends who have mysteriously disappeared; the public should also
have the right to see and to make copies of any certificates they desire.
Mrs. Lowe informs us that the following state of the law enabled her
to rescue Mrs. Weldon from the clutches of the madhouse keepers:—
I would, for their own sakes, beg all endangered persons to remember
that the law has made no provision whatever for taking a patient to the
madhouse; that off the superintendent’s premises the certificates are,
except as regards an escaped patient, valueless ; and that perfect safety
may temporarily be ensured by refusing at any time to accompany
strangers, sending for a policeman, and in his/presence turning any
suspected keepers out of the house. The police will not, because they
cannot, turn them out themselves, but they will protect from violence
any one who, with due authority from the householder, does it. But
let the alleged lunatic keep within doors; outside them he is "in the
eye of the law a “lunatic at large,” and the police, on being shown the
certificates, would be bound to interfere and effect the capture.
The following was recently published in Truth:—
I see that on Saturday Mr. Flowers stated that Mrs. Weldon, who
had appeared not many days previously before him as a prosecutrix, did
not seem to him to be insane, and Mrs. Weldon’s counsel said that the
attempt to shut her up was illegal, and that on Friday two medical men
who had seen her had certified that there was not the slightest doubt of
her sanity. I trust that this matter will be thoroughly investigated. It
is possible, of course, that Mrs. Weldon may be insane, like any one
else ; but what I object to is that any one may be spirited away into an
asylum on a certificate of insanity signed by any two medical men.
This is tantamount to the liberty of every person in the realm being at
the mercy of a iettre de cachet of any two medical men. Assuredly
some sort of control ought to be exercised over those entitled to give
certificates, for the medical profession itself would hardly contend that
it numbers in its ranks no incompetent idiots, and hardly two- doctors
agree themselves as to the precise line of demarcation between eccen¬
tricity and insanity.
I was talking over the matter with a distinguished medical man the
other day. He told me that he had never signed a certificate of insanity
in his life, and that, except in the case of a patient whom he had treated
himself for a long period, he would never do so. This feeling, he said,
is so prevalent. amongst the leading members of his profession,
that, as a rule, these certificates are generally signed by third-class
practitioners.
Let Government give certificates to certain medical men, and let
these alone be allowed to sign lettres de cachet. In no case should any
of these official certifiers be connected, directly or indirectly, with any
institution that derives its income from lunatics. A man whose income
depends upon there being a plentiful supply of mad people, must, in the
nature of things, have a tendency to be convinced that every one is
more or less insane, and would be better for paying some mad doctor a
large fee for looking after him.
About a year ago, a clergyman, attracted by an article in this journal,
came to see me. He had been confined by his relatives in an asylum,
so he wanted me to make public his case. I went thoroughly into it.
The man never had been insane, and the reasons why he had been shut
up by his relatives were palpable enough. He became a Catholic, and
Monsignor Capel advised him to practise the Christian charity of for¬
giveness. So he begged me not to make public his “ case.” I of course
could not say any more in the matter, and on the whole I think that
Monsignor Capel’s advice was sound. But here is the iniquity of the
present system. A man does not like a public discussion as to whether
he has been a lunatic or not, and he does not like to engage in
legal proceedings against his relatives, who, possibly, may have acted
conscientiously.
I publish with pleasure the following letter which I have received
respecting the case of Mrs. Weldon :—
“ Sib,—There being still a vast number of people who really believe
in the medical profession as the fit protectors of our personal liberties
from undue violation under the Lunacy Laws, will you kindly let me
inform such, through your columns, that not only is Mrs. Weldon
perfectly sane in the estimation of her numerous friends, but that she
was formally certified as such on Friday last by two physicians, at least
equal in professional status to Dr. [Mrs. Lowe mistook the man] and*the
confrere who certified Mrs. Weldon to be a lunatic! It is now
ascertained that the order for Mrs. Weldon’s incarceration was not
signed by her husband ; who did sign it is not known, but it is note¬
worthy, en passant, that Menier himself, whom she is prosecuting for
felony, is, in the eye of the law, as competent to sign an order for his
prosecutrix’s incarceration as any one else, and that such order could be
revoked or cancelled by no other person whatever except the Lunacy
Commissioners, who, as was shown before last year’s Committee, are at
all times very slack to interfere, I do not suppose Menier had anything
to do directly with the recent outrage ; stiJl the monstrous anomaly of
the law remains the same. And, sir, what if the outrage on Mrs.
Weldon had succeeded, and Dr. Winslow, who, heading his keepers in
person, made a second raid later in the day on Mrs. Weldon’s premises,
had been successful in carrying her off ? How long would a lady of her
delicate and sensitive organisation have continued sane amid the horrors
of incarceration ? Dr. Mortimer Granville, before last year’s Committee,
emphatically stated that sane persons in such circumstances ‘ would
be almost sure to have their minds upset in a very few hours, say from
twenty-four to thirty-six hours!’ Surely, sir, this consideration alone should
put a final stop to this hideous incarceration by certificates. The common
law of England is that ‘ only dangerous lunatics may be deprived of
liberty; ’ and whether a man is a dangerous lunatic or not is a ques¬
tion for lawyers, not doctors, to determine, for (except in cases of
emergency from violent mania) it can only be rightly decided from evi-
| dence, which doctors have not the machinery, even if they had the skill,
to test. Lunacy, simply as a disease, is no more a legitimate ground of
legislative interference at all than is consumption or gout; and as to
the grand argument for facilitating a man’s incarceration derived from
the doctor’s assertion that the greatest percentage of cures takes place in
the first three months after attack, they must first, to make their case
good, show that these persons w'ere really mad, and, secondly, that they
would not have got well even quicker out of asylums. But, as I said
before, it is really no business of the State to coerce individuals for
their own good, and • the unsoundness of mind ’ that does not betray
itself in acts noxious to others may surely be left to non-coercive treat¬
ment. I will not, sir, further trespass on your space than to express
an earnest hope that last Monday’s happily frustrated attacks on Mrs.
Weldon may call public attention and alarm to this true sword of
Damocles, the madness-monger’s certificate, ever suspended over our
heads, and may give fresh weight to the statements made by Dr.
Granville last year, that ‘ sane persons in an asylum would have much
more difficulty in getting out than a cunning lunatic,’ and also that, at
this moment, one-third of the incarcerated (about 22,200 persons)
‘might be out with advantage to themselves and to the public,’ ‘having
the same powers of self-control as the average of persons of their class
out of asylums ; ’ and also to Dr. Lockhart Robertson’s estimate, that
one-third of the Chancery lunatics should be delivered from the
‘abject misery’ of their being deprived of their liberty.—I am, sir,
yours faithfully, “ Louisa Lowe,
“ Hon. Sec. of the Lunacy Law Reform Association.
“ 64, Berners-street, W.”
The following is a report from the Daily News of the progress of
Mrs. Weldon’s prosecution of M6nier, and since it was published there
has been a second adjournment■
Mr. Flowers resumed the inquiry into the charge against Jean or
Anacharsis Menier for alleged robbery of wearing apparel, furniture,
and jewellery, from Tavistock-house, Tavistock-square, the property of
Mrs. Georgina Weldon. Great interest appeared to be manifested in
the case from the attempt made to arrest the prosecutrix on a certificate
of lunacy, and the consequent flight of Mrs. Weldon to the protection of
the Lunacy Law Reform Association. The prisoner, on the application
of his counsel, Mr. Besley (unopposed by Mr. Macrae Moir on behalf
of the prosecution), was liberated on bail last week, and now surrendered
to his recognisances. The prosecution was now conducted by Mr. St.
John Wontner for the Treasury, and Mr. Besley again appeared for the
prisoner. The prosecutrix was accompanied to the court by a large
number of friends. The examination in chief having been read over,
and her cross-examination on two previous occasions having been read
over by Mr. Sayer, the prosecutrix, Mrs. Weldon, was recalled to be
further cross-examined upon certain letters produced last week, and
alleged to have been written by her to the prisoner. Witness stated
that she was not accompanied to Paris by Mr. Maitland. Her husband
had not employed the prisoner in any way. He was in the service of
the Crown, and probably had the means of conducting the prosecution
if he thought fit to do so. He was the proprietor of Tavistock-house,
and had lived with her there up to 1876. The witness said she did not
see what these questions had to do with the alleged felony, unless it
were to show that the stolen property belonged to her husband, and
that she freely admitted. She was told that even her dresses belonged
to him in law. The letters handed to her were in her writing. The
reference to “ making up quarrels ” in these letters arose out of certain
differences between the prisoner and his wife, and which she spught to
adjust, if possible. No doubt she had begged everywhere for help to
the Orphanage, and once possibly in the name of a relative, but she
never authorised the prisoner to receive money for her, or to act in any
way as a partner. M. Gounod had resided in her house, and she had
no doubt accused the prisoner of being a “ spy ” of Gounod’s. In
reference to one of the letters banded to witness by Mr. Besley, Mrs.
Weldon said it was a letter which she entrusted to the prisoner to for¬
ward to a Mr. Wray, and which he had obviously opened, and kept for
certain purposes of his own.—Mr. Flowers said this was a very strong
proof of the alleged conspiracy, and at the request of Mr. Wontner he
directed that the letter should be impounded by the Court.—Cross-
examination continued: There is an allusion to the prisoner as a
partner, indirectly, in one of the letters, where she professed, in order
that he might not appear to be without one, to speak of him as a partner.
It related to some landed property in Bentinck-street. She belhved
that he had landed property in New Caledonia, half of which was to be
allotted as a guarantee, as he then owed her ,£150. [A great number
of other questions were put to witness as to the allusion made
in the letters by Menier, but nothing material to the issue was elicited.]
—Mr. Flowers again asked how these matters could be said to affect
the real question before the court, as to the guilt or otherwise of the
prisoner, who liad already admitted that the stolen property was in his
THE SPIRITUALIST.
219
May 10, 1878.
box, and had asserted that it was put in by a servant, who placed it
there by mistake.—Mr. Besley said he should not be deterred from
doing his duty because the prisoner was a foreigner.—Mr. Flowers: Nor
shall I be prevented from doing mine because the prosecutrix is an
Englishwoman.—In re-examination Mrs. Weldon explained several
points in the letters.—An assistant to Mr. Smith, pawnbroker, of
Tottenham-court-road, produced several articles of plate, including
some silver spoons, which were pledged by the prisoner. They were
identified as part of the stolen property.—Mr. Besley asked that he
might be allowed to defer the cross-examination till he had questioned
the husband as to any authority which might be given, or might not,
relative to the disposal of this property. He did not say that anything
would be elicited favourable to his client.—Mr. Wontner asked that the
case might be committed.—Mr. Flowers thought that the questions
which Mr. Besley desired to ask might be well reserved for the trial,
for there was a very reasonable objection to the length of these pre¬
liminary examinations.—Mr. Besley said he did not object to them, nor
did he consider them unreasonable. He considered it would be most
unjust to send the case for trial until he had an opportunity of examin¬
ing Mr. Weldon.—Mr. Flowers consented to another adjournment, but
it would rest with the prosecution as to calling Mr. Weldon.
Mrs. Weldon has published in Truth that the person who signed the
order for her incarceration was General de Bathe.
THE AGENDA OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
In its new form the monthly agenda of the National Association of
Spiritualists is, as a whole, a neat, improved, and useful circular, but
those who issued it have enlarged its title and scope without the autho¬
rity of the Council. The Council authorised it to be entitled “ The
Proceedings of the National Association of Spiritualists.” Those who
have since brought it out have enlarged the title to, “ Proceedings of
the National Association of Spiritualists, and Allied Societies, con¬
taining also various information for Spiritualists and Inquirers.” The
last seven words (perhaps unintentionally ill chosen) permit the printing
of anything not authorised by the Council, and of matter altogether
foreign to the business of the National Association of Spiritualists.
The italicised addition to the title could not have been authoritatively
made without a month’s notice of the step having been given, and a formal
resolution then passed by the Council. Mr. Rogers at the last Council
meeting suggested that the authorised title should be altered or enlarged,
but did not suggest how; he did not give the month’s notice required
by the rules, and no resolution sanctioning the enlarged title was
passed. Since then, those who have brought out the agenda have
enlarged its title, scope, and principle, without the authority of the
Council, and have laid the foundation of great future dissensions in the
National Association. The Photographic Society of London tried the
plan, and in past years lost members by scores at a time over dissensions
about the contents of its elastic organ; once the society was rent in
twain. Its power, usefulness; and income sank for years in consequence.
The issuers of the agenda have gone outside the business of the National
Association of Spiritualists to print a list of persons who say that they
are mediums; the names have been picked up apparently from adver¬
tisements in newspapers. With most of these alleged mediums the
Association has had no seances, and if any of them are ever charged with
anything in a police court, the newspapers will undoubtedly justly say
that they were sufficiently recognised by the National Association of
Spiritualists to have their names printed on its official notices. This
is unfair to the tested mediums, and lowers the value of recognition by
the Association.
The points of the present ease are briefly:—
1. That a title not sanctioned by the Council has been put upon its
monthly agenda.
2. That that unauthorised title changes the character of the publi¬
cation, in a direction of which the President of the Association and
others have at different times, when it has been suggested, expressed
their disapproval.
3. That if copies of the publication have been sold—as was recom¬
mended at the last Council meeting—the members of the Association
have already been placed within reach of the grip of the law, for issuing
a periodical without compliance with the terms of the Act in that case
made and provided.
4. That to manage such a journal requires special training, and that
the members of the Association, whose liability is “ unlimited,” are now
liable to pay the costs and fines of any legal action, arising from
mistakes in managing their Proceedings, into which its officials may drag
them by inexperience or otherwise.
5. That the time and energies of the members of the Council of the
National Association of Spiritualists are given at personal self-sacrifice,
which is an additional reason why actions beyond the limits of authority,
should be eschewed by committees and subordinates, giving absolute
security that after the Council has paid painstaking attention to the
business of the Association, great public steps shall not be taken by its
subordinates without its sanction, and without the month’s notice
required by the rules having been given, that a proposed and very
important new public step will be brought up for consideration.
Mrs. Hollis Billings, the American medium, will shortly be in
London. During the past year she has been residing in Chicago.
Mr. J. J, Morse in Liverpool.—On Sunday evening next, May 12th,
Mr. Morse will deliver a trance address in the Concert Hall, Lord
Nelson-street, Liverpool, subject—“ Spiritualists, their Privileges and
Duties.” Service at 6.30. Admission free.
!“ PSYCHOGRAPHY.”
The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago), says of “ M. A., Oxon’s”
new book, Psychography (Harrison, 1878):—
The author has selected one incontestably proved phenomenon out of
the multiform phenomena of Spiritualism, and brought all his forces to
I bear upon its purely scientific presentation. Turning neither to the
right nor to the left—indulging in no collateral speculations—arguing
for no impertinent theory as to the origin of the phenomenon—he pins
down the attention of readers to the consideration of the one great
I inquiry, ‘‘Is psychography a fact?” From this issue, by a purely
logical and inductive process, he does not allow them to escape. By
psychography he means independent writing through some force
unknown, but to which, for the sake of convenience, the epithet
! psychical is applied. The great French Spiritualist, Allan Kardec,
made a very convenient distinction between “ Pneumatology’’ and
| “ Psychography.” By the former he signified direct writing by supposed
| spirit power ; and by the latter he signified writing where the hand of
] an unconscious medium is used in producing it. But the present
| author did not wish, we suppose, to prejudge the question of origin, and
| so the more general term Psychography (psychic writing), has been
| adopted.
“We are not bound to examine into facts so diametrically opposed
| to our notions of the possible in nature,” is the argument with which
! Dr. Carpenter comforts himself for denying our facts before he has
| investigated them properly. “ Human testimony is worth nothing in
i such a case,” says Dr. Beard, merely echoing in a new form Dr. Car-
| penter’s cry. And now comes Editor Youmans, catching up and
uttering the same convenient excuse for shutting out facts from his
readers. “ What I question,” he says, “ is their capacity to deal with
| the case”—referring to a supposed instance in which a thousand
| persons might testify to the fact that they had heard a certain woman
make a certain prediction, which was literally fulfilled. It requires an
j expert, according to Mr. Youmans, to know whether one heard or not
in such a case !
“ I have nothing to do,” says the author of Psychography," with the
allegation that such and such occurrences are outside of the nature of
things, and so are to be rejected without the formality of a trial. This
is an ancient method—more antique than venerable—of disposing of
new facts. There was a time, somewhere in the world’s history, when
it was employed to ‘ burke ’ almost every manifestation of truth which
i was new and unwelcome.”
As to the facts presented in this book, all that the author attempts to
! maintain is the obvious and irresistible inference that they furnish
evidence oFthe existence of a force, and of a governing intelligence external
to a human body. Here is safe ground—safe and immovable. Sooner
or later general science must come to it. Indeed, veritable science has
come to it already. Those who know the facts know that this must be,
just as confidently as they know that summer will succeed the spring;
for the facts are knowable and known—demonstrable and demonstrated.
If any man asks you for certainties in regard to some of the super-
sensual phenomena of Spiritualism, hand him a copy of Psychography ;
tell him to read it; and, after he has read it attentively, ask him to tell
you, if he can, where the flaw is in the evidence. There is no flaw.
There is no conceivable objection to be made to the proofs, except an
objection kindred to that which the tropical king advanced when the
traveller told him that water could be made hard. “ It contradicts
all my notions of the possible,” said his majesty, “ and so I’ll not
believe it.”
Psychography proclaims to every intelligent person, who is not afraid
i to do his own thinking, and who would know whether the dissolution
of the earth-body is the end of the individual consciousness—f Come
I and realise the evidence I present of a supersensual intelligence—of
powers in the human organism presignifying a spiritual state of
j existence. The proofs are actual, incontrovertible, irresistible; read
them, and point out a weak place in the testimony, if you can.”
We do not see how any candid and reasonable man can rise from the
faithful perusal of this excellent work without feeling the force of appeals
like these, without admitting that there is at least one grand, significant
| phenomenon in Spiritualism, thoroughly attested, thoroughly proved.
| The proof does not rest to any extent on the character of the mediums.
Bear this consideration always in mind. Every one of them might
to-morrow turn round, and declare that they practised fraud in bringing
about the phenomena; it would not be of the slightest importance in
opposition to what is known and established. Fortunately for the
cause of truth, the facts, conditions, the processes, have been of such a
character that no medium’s recreancy, falsehood, spite, or determination
to throw doubt on what he had been instrumental in producing, can be
of the slightest avail in impairing the knowledge of investigators,
shaking their confidence in the actual phenomena as they occurred, or
i invalidating the evidences.
j We hope that Psychography will meet with an extensive sale in
\! America. It is wholly unanswerable as an array of evidence in support
11 of the essential truth, not only of psychography, but of all the cognate
1 i facts in Spiritualism.
Professor Zollner and Herr von Hoffmann have been further
investigating spiritual phenomena with a private medium at Wiesbaden.
I There will be more about the phenomena in the second volume of
i Professor Zollner’s book.
There has been a very heavy sale in England of the last number of
j The Spiritualist, and great quantities have been sent to foreign coun-
| tries. The Belgian Spiritualists are going to import some hundreds
] of the pictorial supplement only, for the benefit of those of their
j number who cannot read English.
220
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 10, 1878.
SOME PERSONAL EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM,
AND THOUGHTS THEREON.*
BY J. W. GRAY, C.E.
Me. Csaieman, Ladies, and Gentlemen,—When I was
requested to read a paper before this Association I accepted
the invitation with a considerable amount of reluctance. Not
from any desire to shirk the labour necessarily involved in
preparing a paper, but because of the difficulty I experi¬
enced in selecting as a subject on which to speak, some
phase of what I may term the science of Spiritualism,
respecting which I could hope to impart information to such
an audience as I should have to address, composed, as such
gatherings here usually are, of those who have had equal or
much greater opportunities for investigation than I myself
have had. This difficulty of selecting a subject was in¬
creased by the knowledge of a fact I regret to have to
admit, but which is, nevertheless, true, viz., that though I
have given much time during some years to the investiga¬
tion of the phenomena of Spiritualism with fair, and for
some phases thereof even exceptional means and oppor¬
tunities for calm, full, and repeated observation, yet I am
by no means certain that at the present moment I have
much more positive knowledge relative to such phenomena,
and the laws under which they occur or are produced, than I
possessed after I had made my first round of the public
mediums then in existence, and obtained a first insight
of the subject. I hope this is not the experience of many,
though I tear there are at least some others who have fared
not much better. For my own part I feel that I am still |
only on the very outer boundaries of the subject and its !
investigation, and this, you will admit, is not the best I
“ form” in which to appear as a lecturer.
Thus reflecting, it eventually occurred to me, however, j
that there was some ground which I could occupy as j
peculiarly my own, and on which, therefore, I could venture j
to speak with something like authority. That subject was, j
and is, my own personal experiences in Spiritualism, and I, !
therefore, decided to state a few of these this evening, |
believing that if even I fail to impart to you any new fact, j
at least those experiences may be useful in the sense of !
comparing notes. I also propose to show you the bearing of j
some of these experiences on questions the solution of which |
is troubling and dividing Spiritualists at the present day.
I should not have time this evening to cover the ground !
of all the different classes of the phenomena of Spirit- i
ualism, and I shall therefore select those I deem to be of j
the most importance.
I will first narrate the particulars of one or two seances held j
with a medium, who I suppose would be called clairvoyant, I
though whether that term is correctly applied in the majority j
of cases I am by no means sure. This medium, I should !
state, I have had exceptionally good opportunities for ob- |
serving. The conditions of theJirst seance I will describe were
as follows : I had been talking respecting Spiritualism to a
gentleman friend who knew nothing whatever of the subject, |
and who, of course, in consequence treated the matter as a I
very good joke. When, however, he found I was thoroughly !
in earnest, and had heard what I had to say, he expressed j
a wish to make some investigation. I accordingly arranged
for a seance at his house, and on the evening appointed took I
the medium in question with me. There were present at I
the seance four in all, viz., the friend I have spoken of (who i
for convenience we will call Mr. A.), his wife, the medium,
and myself. I should here state also that I knew nothing
whatever of the family connections of either Mr. or Mrs. A., I
and that the medium was an utter stranger to both, and I
until the visit did not even know where she was going. The I
conditions, therefore, for myself, at least, were as nearly j
absolutely test conditions as well could be. It should also j
be remarked that both Mr. and Mrs. A. were sceptical in the !
highest degree; so much so, in fact, that they could hardly j
keep countenance. Likewise, before the seance commenced, j
I particularly requested both to be very careful not to j
convey any information to the medium either directly or j
indirectly by questions (as is so often done), but recom- I
mended them to sit quietly and passively, and simply to |
listen without making any remark until after any particular i
* A paper read last Monday night before the British National Association of !
Spiritualists. 1
|| and complete communication, when they were to clearly
i i admit or deny the truthfulness and exactness of such com-
| munication. Under these conditions, satisfactory to all
[I parties, the following took place, and, wonderful as they
11 may seem, I assure you the details are narrated with the
11 strictest accuracy and without the least colouring. After
|| one or two preliminary descriptions of spirits present the
ij medium stated, in almost the following words : n I now see
! j standing before me a young girl, rather tall and slim, but
still what would be called a good figure. She has an intel¬
ligent countenance, and a pale but clear skin. Her hair is
j quite black, dressed back off the forehead, and falls down
| behind in a profusion of long ringlets. She wears a black
I velvet dress, with very low cut bodice. She appears
to me to have been a good musician and to have ex¬
celled on the pianoforte. She appears also not to have
| been English, but to have come to this country for the
benefit of her health. She evidently suffered from lung
disease, as I can feel a difficulty in breathing and a
I weakness there. It appears also that you 1 (addressing
| Mrs. A.) u cautioned her against wearing such low cut dresses,
assuring her that our climate would kill her if she did,
but she continued to wear them, and in consequence caught a
j severe cold, ending in her death. She asks if you remember
j her now ? ” Thus appealed to Mr. and Mrs. A. both stated
| that they had been trying hard to recognise the spirit from
| the description given, but could not recollect either the
| circumstances or the person. To this the medium replied,
| “ I am quite sure though that you do know her. She now
tells me you did not hear of her death in an ordinary way,
i but through an indirect channel, and that the news gave you
! such a shock as almost to make you ill. She also says that
| Mr. A. was not in England at the time you heard of her
| death, and that you sent the news to him.” At this Mr. A.
asked of Mrs. A., il do you remember now who it is ? ” and on
her again replying in the negative, Mr. A. remarked, “ I do,
I remember the whole circumstances now. Don’t you
remember, Miss B ? When I was in America you sent me a
newspaper containing an account of her death, and you said
in your letter that you were in bed when you read the
account, and it gave you such a 1 turn ’ that you were unable
| to leave your room the whole day.” Mrs. A. then re-
| membered both the individual and the circumstances, and
they both assured us that every detail given had been strictly
5 exact. The medium then stated that the spirit had gone
! away greatly pleased at having been recognised, and con¬
tinued describing other spirit surroundings. Shortly after¬
wards, however, she said the spirit had returned with another
spirit, whom she described as an old man dressed like a
country farmer, short, of ruddy complexion, and with a
constant short catchy cough ; she also described a thick stick
he was carrying as having a very large knob on the end,
| and stated that this spirit came to Mr. A. and not to Mrs. A.
| This spirit was at once recognised, and every detail of the
description acknowledged to be true. The medium then
j continued by stating that the man spirit held in his hand
a parchment in which Mr. A.’s name had originally appeared
several times, but that it had been erased in every case but
| one, and the spirit wished Mr. A. to know that. Mr. A. here
said he could not be sure of the meaning of this part of the
| communication, but that it quite agreed with his ideas of a
I circumstance that had happened. This old gentleman, who
] had lived abroad had always promised to leave the bulk of
j his considerable property to Mr. A., but after his death, also
i abroad, his friends had written to Mr. A. telling him that a
sum very small indeed had been left him ; so small was it,
| in fact, that Mr. A. made them a present of it. Also he had
written several times for a copy of the will, but had failed to
obtain one. Naturally he was very much interested in the
communication.
Daring the same stance other spirits were as minutely
described, but the above will be sufficient for my purpose
this evening. This stance is one out of dozens of similar
j and equally successful ones I have enjoyed with the same
I medium. One other seance I will shortly describe under this
I head. On this occasion the medium and myself went by
j request to the house of a friend to meet an acquaintance of
j theirs. This gentleman was an utter stranger to both the
* medium and to myself, not even his name being known to
THE SPIRITUALIST.
221
May 10, 1878.
either. There were present my friend and his wife, their
visitor, the medium, and myself. After a time the medium
stated she saw standing before her a youth whose personal
appearance she described, including the fact that he was
dressed in sailor’s clothes. She also stated that he had come
to the strangers present; in fact, that he was a brother,
and that he had met his death by drowning. She then added
what to my mind was a most marvellous test, viz., that he
was not drowned at sea, but in shallow, muddy water—she
could feel the mud in her mouth, choking her. Every detail
of this was acknowledged to be strictly accurate.
These seanceshwi being examples of a class, we have now to
consider what such phenomena teach. I would first ask our
friends the Theosophists if they think that the facts narrated
by mediums during such seances as those above described are
discovered by the mediums by <c will-power,” or whether the
“ sub-human” spirits of their philosophy are also so super¬
human as to be able to become the manifesting agencies at
such seances. Another section of our friends, headed, I
believe, by Dr. Wyld, I would ask if they think the spirit of
the medium becomes so knowing immediately he begins
practice on his own account, apart from his at-other-times,
partner, the much-abused and so very “ gross ” material
body, as to be able to become the successful manifesting
agency under such circumstances. Observe what he has to
do. He (with the body) is going to be taken to give a
seance to an utter stranger, and at an address he knows
nothing of until he gets there. Either He (without the body)
must wait till both Hes get there to begin his pranks, or He
(without the body) knows already all about the stranger and
his address, and his friends that have been, but are now no
one knows where, since they do not come back to us—unless
it be this particular He (without the body), in which case he
can get all his material for the imposition ready to hand.
But whether He (without the body) gets all ready before He
(with the body) gets to the stranger’s house, or afterwards,
can matter little to him, since only give him a chance of
working without the He (with the body) and he is evidently
immediately such a clever fellow that a mere paltry difference
of materials and circumstances, and time to work with,
are of little object to him. The stance having com¬
menced, He (without the body) successfully personates
spirit after spirit belonging to the different sitters, giving
such details of their past life as leave no doubt on their
minds that they are really and gloriously communing with
saints—with the loved ones who have gone on before. There
is, however, one point which must not be overlooked— Whereis
He (without the body) ? because, remember, it is He (with
the body) who is talking to the sitters. Oh! He (without
the body) is the personating spirit, giving information to
Him with the body; and we have thus obtained two distinct
individualities, the second one (where he has come from nobody
knows) almost omnipotent, and, at the same time, the very
essence of all that is foul, false, and sinful, since he gleefully,
and without cause, tampers with the most sacred feelings of
humanity, passes his life in such occupation, [and all this he
does because and the while he has become spirit, and has
thrown off, for the time being, the gross, material body.
"While he has the gross, material body, he is an honest man,
as more than one of our mediums may claim to be; and
one is sufficient to prove the whole case. Strange freak of
nature, is it not?
To another section of our friends, who say it is thought¬
reading by the medium, I would ask—How about those
particulars given and continued whilst nobody in the room
recognised the description ? Here were no thoughts to read,
except such as pointed altogether in the opposite direction.
Besides, what is thought-reading ? and will those who hold
the theory kindly 11 tell us how it is done ?”
I think all the above theories, to account for the occur¬
rence of phenomena such as those above described, may be
at once dismissed from the mind. But then comes the
question—What do such phenomena prove ? How far are
they evidence of spirit individuality and identity ?
I contend that these phenomena go a long way towards
proving the immortality and the continuity of the indivi¬
duality of man and the identity of the spirit communi¬
cating.
Firstly, without doubt, we have evidence of an extraneous
ll intelligence in action, and as we cannot understand such
11 intelligence apart from an organism, we have thus fair pre-
H sumptive evidence of an intelligent organism. But there is
| a peculiarity in this intelligence, viz., that it takes the form ,
I of an intimate knowledge of—firstly, the fact that a certain
! seance is going to be or is being held, the sitters at such
11 seance and the object of it; secondly, of the friends, de-
11 parted this life, of one or more of the sitters; thirdly, of
11 the particulars of their relationship; and, fourthly, a like
intimate knowledge of the personal characteristics of such
? ! friend or acquaintance even to the secrets and feelings of his
II inner life, known perhaps only to himself and another on
(I earth, that other being the one to whom he communicates
| them as tests of his continued life after death. Added to
| this there is also the minute description of the personal
II appearance of the manifesting agency given by the medium,
) | we thus having evidence of a minute and correct representa-
| tion of the entire individuality of a friend who has lived on
| earth, and has passed on before us. More than this, the
| manifesting agency tells us that it or he is such friend, and
|| appears not once only, but as frequently almost as we
| please, often manifesting an anxious interest in those left
] behind, and preserving in each subsequent visit the same
! characteristic individuality. Why, then, should we doubt
jj that our friend still lives? How do we know different
|| people on earth, and distinguish one from the other?
(| How do we know each other but by the particular and
1 characteristic individuality of each? If, then, we have
clear evidence of a particular individuality from the
spirit world, we must accept the proof that the
I individual still lives, unless and until we can
| find a stronger reason for disbelieving it, and have another
| (j interpretation, more logical, of the phenomena. Moreover,
| j as the manifesting agencies, with all the attributes of indi-
! vidualities, themselves testify to being our departed friends,
II we can only disbelieve them by assuming that such agencies,
11 whatever they may be, are members of some vast organiza-
; tion, the object of which is to wilfully, maliciously, and
II cruelly deceive mankind in general and sport with their most
| sacred feelings, and this for some reason of their own,
unknown and mysterious to us, or for no reason at all, such
agencies being endowed at the same time with almost
infinite knowledge and power to carry out their work.
Which of the two interpretations is the more logical I will
j leave each of my audience to decide for himself.
| I should have liked to have narrated other experiences
j bearing on other phases of Spiritualism, but I feel that I
| have already sufficiently trespassed on your time and atten-
| tion, and so will now beg to leave the matter with you.
|| Mr. J. T. Markley writes that his poems in The Spiritualist have
) | attracted the attention of one of the chief musical composers in Paris,
(| who is about to set some of them to music.
)| Pictures of Saints among the South Slavonians.—In one of his
j first pages Mr. Evans entertains his readers with the tale of a Metro-
\ j politan, appropriately named “ Dionysos,” for he had the habits of a
; Bacchus, who used, in visiting the clergy placed beneath his supervision,
(| to carry with him an assortment of Icons for sale and a pack of cards
| i for gambling purposes. One one occasion a pious Bosnian peasant
| ) j asked for an image of St. George, and, having already exhausted his
j (; stock of holy pictures, the worthy prelate did his best to gratify the
I [ I devout man’s wish by selling him at a high price the King of Spades.
j|| This experiment is said to have been so successful, that the bishop
I (I afterwards passed off the Queen of Hearts as the Holy Virgin and
[) j Knaves of all suits as angels.”—Athenceum,
III Voltaire.—I see that in Paris they are going to get up one of their
11! grand solemnities on the centennial day of Voltaire’s death in 1778. His
111 birth was much more remarkable than his death. But how many
| (| readers and worshippers of “ the great philosopher of Ferney ft are there
; )i who know that no one of the name of “Voltaire’’ ever was born? It
|) | happened by the narrowest squeak that on November the 21st, 1691-, a
I (S baby-boy, with the destiny of a “ Voltaire ” upon him, did somehow
|) | escape the ready shears of Atropos. But had it not been for the sprink-
111 ling of cold water on that inanimate infant face when it was feared he
j (j would die unbaptised, we should, perhaps, have lost our Voltaire ; and,
;) | as it was, the good people who assumed the functions of the Church on
! 11 the moment never dreamt of calling the child by any other name than
| (j Francois Marie Arouet. How often the old cynic must have chuckled
|) | over the thought that he should live and die baptised by himself.
ij Nobody has ever discovered the old family estate on the mother’s side,
I from which it has been said the name of “Voltaire” was derived.
| Neither, so far as I know at least, has any better suggestion been
offered than that the name was a whimsical fancy of his own, and
j formed as an anagram out of “ Arouet l.j” (Arouet le jeune), the w being
changed into a v and they into an t,—Truth*
222
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 10, 1878.
THE CLAIRVOYANCE OF ALEXIS DIDIER.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO MISS MARTINEAU.”
I had frequent opportunities of testing the certainly most
marvellous clairvoyant power of Alexis Didier, and could
relate a dozen instances, but in such matters I prefer not to
trust to memory. But at Lord Houghton’s once, his lord-
ship retired by himself and returned with a paper folded up
over and over again; he put it on the table before Alexis,
and asked what was written therein. Alexis took up a pencil
and wrote on the outside the word that was written. It was
“ Danton.” I have the paper still in my possession, and
showed it to Mr. A. R. Wallace, who was struck by his
having made a little mistake at first and then giving the
name correctly.
Botdogne-sur-Mer, France.
ANIMALS IN THE NEXT WORLD.
BY EMILE, PRINCE OF WITTGENSTEIN.
What I should describe as less than a chef d1 oeuvre is the
paragraph at the end of The Spiritualist, No. 292, 29th
March, 1878, quoted from the Mission Mirror of San Fran¬
cisco. The author of the paragraph wants his dogs and
canaries to accompany him to heaven, just as if he were a
Scythian hero, or a Pawnee chieftain, requiring his horses to
serve him in the frays and hunts of a better life. Can a true
Spiritualist have really invented this, or is it simply written
in fun t In admitting that the soul of Mrs. So-and-So’s lap-
dog goes “ to heaven,” after having through life faithfully
wagged its tail, kissed its kind mistress’s mouth, barked
at visitors, jumped at children’s noses, and torn beggars’
trousers, we must necessarily admit also that every other
animal on the face of the earth has, under the principles of
eternal justice, the same future, the same right to im¬
mortality. Now imagine for a moment the myriads of oxen,
pigs, sheep, fowls, and so on, which are daily slaughtered all
over the world for man’s use and abuse; or imagine the
crabs, the shrimps boiled, the eels flayed alive, and all the
torments inflicted on animals by the most cruel of beasts—
man—from the Strasbourg pie merchant, who causes the
liver of geese to swell under the action of thirst and fire,
to the vivisector who lays bare the quivering heart of a poor
dog; then let each man represent to himself the “spiritual
realms ” crowded with the spiritual cattle, accumulated during
thousands of years, waiting in the next world to reproach
man for his cruelty. Think of all the beasts of prey with their
victims, and of all the flies, and ants, and spiders, and other
obnoxious things, all crawling and flying about your
bewildered spirit. I imagine myself Lord Beaconsfield
soaring through the spaces with a crowd of serious monkeys
and converted sharks at his heels ! Similia similibus!
What a nice place it will be! How happy I shall feel, for
example, to meet all the hares, stags, roes, wolves, and bears
I have shot in my life, and to see them scowling at me. In
that upper world shall we hover amidst crowds of ethereal
boars and seraphic sheep, of each of which we may eat a
piece ? Perhaps it will be possible by-and-by to evoke them
at seances. How interesting, for example, it would be to
hear from Bucephalus a genuine account of the passage of
the Granicus or the sack of Persepolis, to gossip about pre¬
dictions with Balaam’s ass, or to go further back and get
valuable informations about the Miocene or the Jurassic
periods from the hovering spirit of some Plesiosaurus or
Megalosaurus. Shall we learn from the Megatherium itself
on what trees it was wont to climb, and will the Dinothe-
rium tell us whether it lived over or under the ground ? The
can-can in my head is becoming so strong under the
influence of these grand thoughts that I must now close
abruptly.
Vevey, Switzerland, April 30th, 1878.
Hymns for the Multitude.—Since the agricultural labourer sang
God bless the squire and his relations,
And teach us all our proper stations,
And'give us, Lord, our daily rations,
nothing better has been heard than the following lines, sung a few days
ago at the Baptist Chapel, Haverfordwest:—
From pride that will not bend with awe,
To parents, pastors, throne, and law,
0 Lord deliver us.
[|f AIDED BY SPIRITS.
] j | The Evening Standard of May 6th makes some ex parte remarks
I /1 against Spiritualism, written in the ordinary daily newspaper style of
11! dealing with serious subjects and responsible people, and closes with the
| (| following statement:—
| /1 While Spiritualism is on the wane in England, however, as hinted
]v above, in St. Louis a convert has been found, though his experiences
111 make him the reverse of happy. The convert’s name is Heth, and his
j j trade that of a grocer. In the pursuit of his calling the other day, he
(I was going to write a letter, when on the paper before him he suddenly
) | read the words, “Go and see Mrs. Smith in Franklin-street.” Mr.
(| Heth was greatly astonished. He did not know Mrs. Smith, though
) | the name was familiar to him, and then Franklin-street was of con-
) siderable length. He felt inclined, therefore, to disregard the order,
j and took up what he supposed to be a clean sheet of paper, but on this
i j likewise he read the same words. Mr. Heth thereupon became con-
i | vinced that spirits were about, and having a Spiritualistic friend he
Hi went to consult him. The friend warmly acquiesced in the idea that
|) I Mr. Heth was being guided by spirits, and even professed to recognise
| j | the handwriting as that peculiar to ghostly circles; so together they set
ij off for Franklin-street, and after some inquiries found that there was a
j j Mrs. Smith actually living in that street. Calling upon her they asked
|(j if they could do anything, and though Mrs. Smith looked strong and
11! healthy, she declared that she had not tasted food for several weeks, and
j)! was urgently in want of money. Of course, being under the directing
lu influence of the spirits they supplied her wants, and getting together
|) i a medium and a cabinet, and a tambourine, musical-box, and other
j | j things to amuse the spirits when they appeared, Mr. Heth and his
111 friend set about inquiring who had despatched him in search of Mrs.
| j | Smith. The medium, after a time, was enabled to announce that the
! (! late Smith had done it. He had not known Mr. Heth personally,
| j I and why he had made application to a stranger did not exactly
|) | appear, but Smith, who was good enough to come round—in
I (j the spirit of course—said he was much obliged, and if Mr. Heth came
i(s to his sphere he should be happy to repay the obligation by intro-
|) I ductions and general endeavours to make things cheerful for a
I j | stranger. On leaving the medium’s house, the friend asked the
j| | bewildered grocer if he did not feel sublimely happy, but Heth said he
! ! did not. “ I believe in Spiritualism,” he remarked, “ but I don’t like
|( | it. Don’t you see that from what Smith’s ghost says a man does not
I j | lose sight of his wife after his death, and is in constant danger of
II having her come to him. Smith has fought the thing off for this time.
11 He has stopped his wife just as she was starting to find him, and, of
j) course, he feels very happy. But this affair gives a man a painful
i | view of the spirit land. It shows that there is no rest for the married.
II Sooner or later Mrs. Heth will meet me in the spirit world, and yet,
1) in the face of this certainty, you expect me to be cheerful.” In St.
| ( Louis the Spiritualists are making much of their new brother, who
III lives in constant dread lest his reputation for benevolence should
I) I spread among spirits whose wives are not well off, and lest he should
I j | therefore spend his substance and run the risk of quarrels with his
|) | wife by having to call upon ladies with whom she is not acquainted.
I 1 Heth’s partner, however, declares that Heth was rather drunk when
j j j he sat down to write, that he got hold of a sheet of paper with an old
J direction to a shopman on it, and that it was only natural for two
j long rows of houses like Franklin-street to contain a Mrs. Smith, who,
| being poor and artful, would get what she could out of a visitor.
I But the Spiritualists only deride Heth’s partner as being in outer
j darkness.
} Mrs. Hardinge Britten once informed us that instances were
)j numerous in America in which Spiritualists had been aided a little
II by spirit power, in moments of extreme destitution. The above may
t be one of those cases.
; As for the horror of the prospect of husbands meeting their wives
| again, that may be natural enough among people outside of Spirit-
( ualism, where the affections are bartered away, crucified for a price.
) True Spiritualists are exempt from such troubles ; they know too well
II the iniquity of subjugating true affections to things material, and will
j ( not go to the altar with an untruth upon their lips. The class of
|) j people mentioned in the article deserve the retribution set forth.
j|j Mr. W. Eglinton, medium, writes that he will leave London for
| j | Cape Town, South Africa, on the 11th of July, by the Balmoral Castle
i (| From Cape Town he will go to Australia and other places, and return
j | by the Suez Canal route.
! < | Miraculous Cures.—The London correspondent of The Folkestone
iji News writes:—“I am getting more than ordinarily interested in my
I) j Weekly Register. Written in the English language, edited by a cnlti-
! 11 vated Englishman, it is yet presenting to its English readers a miracle
j > a week. In fact, it is becoming more remarkable for wonderful tales
j / i than The Spiritualist. Last week it had the story of a wonderful cure,
j 11 This week it has another. A sick girl demands to be taken to Lourdes
j j amid the loud ‘ blasphemies ’ of her family, who regarded her aspriest-
| {j ridden. She silenced them by proposing that if she got well they should
! |! become converted. The girl went to Lourdes, and was able, I do not
!) j know how soon, to send a message stating that she was cured. She
| (| came back to Paris, and all her family had been to confession, and were
j 11 ready to attend mass with her. The Weekly Register makes this its
|) | most conspicuous announcement. In these days it is interesting to
| < j notice that simple faith in wonders still exists. I am not quite certain
11 j whether that is recorded as a remark, but Louise Lateau wept when she
heard that the Pope had an ecstatic fit, and then was calm.”
May 10, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
223
THE BRAHAN SEER.
A book by Mr. Alexander Mackenzie, on The Prophecies
of the Brahan Seer, has just been published by Messrs. A.
and W. Mackenzie, of Inverness. Kenneth Mackenzie
(Coinneach Odhar), the Highland prophet of the seventeenth
century, was born at Baile-na-Cille, in the Island of Lews.
Early in life he became possessed in a mysterious way of
a mysterious stone, on looking into which he was said to be
able to foretell the future, and his fame spread far and wide.
We append some extracts from the book:—
“ A CURIOUS HIGHLAND PROPHECY.
li One circumstance took place at the Castle (Dunvegan)
on this occasion, which I think worth recording, especially
as I am the only person now living who can attest the truth
of it. There had been a traditionary prophecy, couched in
Gaelic verse, regarding the family of Macleod, which, on this
occasion, received a most extraordinary fulfilment. This
prophecy I have heard repeated by several persons, and most
deeply do I regret that I did not take a copy of it when I
could have got it. The worthy Mr. Campbell, of Knock, in
Mull, had a very beautiful version of it, as also had my
father, and so, I think, had likewise Dr. Campbell, of
Killinver. Such prophecies were current regarding almost
all old families in the Highlands—the Argyll family were
of the number; and there is a prophecy regarding the Bread-
albane family as yet unfulfilled, which I hope may remain
so. The present Marquis of Breadalbane is fully aware of
it, as are many of the connections of the family. Of the
Macleod family, it was prophesied at least a hundred years
prior to the circumstance which I am about to relate. Ip
the prophecy to which I am about to allude, it was foretold
that when Norman, the third Norman, the son of the hard¬
loved English lady, would perish by an accidental death;
that when the £ maidens ’ of Macleod (certain well-known
rocks on the coast of Macleod’s country) became the property
of a Campbell; when a fox had young ones in one of the
turrets of the castle; and particularly when the fairy-enchanted
banner should be for the last time exhibited, then the glory
of the Macleod family should depart, a great part of the
estate should be sold to others, so that a small ‘ cunagh ’
—a boat—would carry all gentlemen of the name of Macleod
across Loch Dunvegan ; but that in times far distant another
John Breac should arise, who should redeem those estates,
and raise the power and honours of the house to a higher
pitch than ever. Such in general terms was the prophecy.
And now as to the curious coincidence of its fulfilment.
“There was at that time, at Dunvegan, an English smith,
with whom I became a favourite, and who told me, in solemn
secrecy, that the iron chest which contained the 1 Fairy flag’
was to be forced open next morning; that he had arranged
with Mr. Hector Macdonald Buchanan to be there with his
tools for that purpose. I was most anxious to be present,
and I asked permission to that effect of Mr. Buchanan (Mac¬
leod’s man of business), who granted me leave on condition
that I should not inform any one of the name of Macleod
that such was intended, and should keep it a profound
secret from the chief. This I promised, and most faithfully
acted on. Next morning we proceeded to the chamber in
the east turret, where was the iron chest that contained the
famous flag, about which there is an interesting tradition.
With great violence the smith tore open the lid of this iron
chest, but in doing so a key was found under part of the
covering, which would have opened the chest if it had been
found in time. There was an inner case, in which was found
the flag, inclosed in a wooden box of strongly-scented wood.
The flag consisted of a square piece of very rich silk, with
crosses wrought with gold thread, and several elf-spots
stitched with great care on different parts of it. On this
occasion the melancholy news of the death of the young and
promising heir of Macleod reached the Castle. 4 Norman,
the third Norman,’ was a lieutenant of H.M.S. Queen Char¬
lotte, which was blown up at sea, and he and the rest perished.
At the same time the rocks called e Macleod’s Maidens’ were
sold that very week to Angus Campbell, of Ensay, and they
are still in possession of his grandson. A fox in possession
of a Lieutenant Maclean, residing in the west turret of the
castle, had young ones, which I handled, and thus all that
was said in the prophecy alluded to was fulfilled, although
I I I am glad The family of my chief still enjoy their ancestral
I < j possessions, and the worst part of the prophecy accordingly
i'j remains unverified.”
j i 11 THE DOOM OF THE SEAFORTHS.
Jll “ The Earl of Seaforth having occasion to go to Paris after
I] the Restoration of Charles II., gave himself up to all the
j dissipation and amusements of the French capital. Receiving
! no letters from him for several months his countess became
alarmed, and sent for Coinneach if happily he might be able
i to give her any tidings of her lord. Looking into his stone,
| the seer laughed and said, 1 Fear not for your lord ; he is
| safe and sound, well and hearty, merry and, happy.’ This
I was, so far, good news, but the countess wanted more par-
i ticulars, and, when much pressed to give them, Coinneach
| said, £ As you will know that which will make you unhappy,
I must tell you the truth. My lord seems to have little
j thought of you, or of his children, or of his Highland home.
I I saw him in a gay gilded room, grandly decked out in
' | velvets, with silks and cloth of gold, and on his knees before
| a fair lady, his arm round her waist, and her hand pressed to
li his lips.’ The haughty countess and the injured wife was
I stung to madness with the revelation, especially as it was
uttered in the presence of her retainers. Turning upon the
seer she cried, £ You have spoken evil of dignities, you have
vilified the mighty of the land, you have defamed a
mighty chief in the midst of his vassals, you have abused
my hospitality and outraged my feelings, you have sullied
the good name of my lord in the halls of his ancestors,
and you shall suffer the most signal vengeance I can inflict—
you shall suffer the death.’ Immediately the astonished prophet
was led out to execution, but before leaving her presence he
looked into his stone. 11 see into the far future,’ he said,1 and
I read the doom of the race of my oppressor. The long-
descended line of Seaforth will, ere many generations have
passed, end in extinction and sorrow. I see a chief, the last
of his house, both deaf and dumb. He will be the father of
four fair sons, all of whom he will follow to the tomb. . . .
After lamenting over the last and most promising of his
sons, he himself shall sink into the grave, and the remnant
of his possessions shall be inherited by a white-coifed (or
white-hooded) lassie from the east, and she is to kill her
j sister. And as a sign by which it may be known that these
things are coming to pass, there shall be four great lairds in
the days of the last deaf and dumb Seaforth—Eairloch,
Chisholm, Grant, and Raasay—of which one shall be buck¬
toothed, another hare-lipped, another half-witted, and the
fourth a stammerer. Chiefs distinguished by these personal
marks shall be the allies and neighbours of the last Seaforth;
and when he looks round him and sees them he may know
that his sons are doomed to death, that his broad lands shall
pass away to the stranger, and that his race shall come to an
end.’ Immediately upon the utterance of this prediction
| the seer threw his stone into a small loch, and was led out
i to execution. And what about the fulfilment? The coin¬
cidence is more than singular ; it is startling.
“ Francis Humberstone Mackenzie, the last of the Sea-
| forths, was rendered deaf by a fever which attacked him while
I a boy at school. His faculty of speech he did not lose until
I | well advanced in life. By his wife, a niece of Lord Carys-
| j fort, he had four sons, all of whom he followed, too truly,
I! j to the grave. At last he paid the debt of nature himself in
I January, 1815, and, with his death, the title became extinct,
j 1 The chiefdom of the Mackenzies, divested of its rank and
| honour, passed away to a very remote collateral, who suc-
| ceeded to no portion of the property, and the great Seaforth
j estates were inherited by a white-hooded lassie from the
| East.’ Lord Seaforth’s eldest surviving daughter had
! married Admiral Sir Samuel Hood, who, dying about the
| same time as Seaforth, while in the Indian seas, his widow
| returned home to take possession of her paternal inheritance.
£ She was thus, literally, a white-coifed or white-hooded
| lassie (that is, a young woman in widow’s weeds, and a Hood
| by name) from the East.’ The four great lairds, who were
! the contemporaries of the ill-fated laird, were, as the seer
! | described, Sir Hector Mackenzie, of Eairloch, buck-toothed;
J I Chisholm, hare-lipped; Grant, half-witted; and Macleod,
| of Raasay, a stammerer. The remaining part of the pro-
[ (I phecy was fulfilled on this wise. The white^hooded lassie,
224
THE SPIRITUALISE. May 10, 1378.
who had married a Mr. Stewart, some time after her return ! I
home, took her younger sister one day for a drive in a pony !)
carriage. The pony took fright, the vehicle was upset, and ! j
the sister was so hurt that she died of her injuries. Thus jj
was the prophecy of the Brahan Seer but too sadly verified j;
to the very letter. For the benefit of the sceptical reader j j
we will only add that this prophecy had been ‘ current for j <
generations in the Highlands, and its tardy fulfilment was j j
marked curiously 9,nd anxiously by an entire clan, and a ||
whole country.’ ” I
“ SECOND-SIGHT m THE HIGHLANDS. ! )
“ The parish clergyman [in a northern district of Skye] on j
his rounds, visited the miller’s house, and met the miller’s j
wife evidently in a very excited state standing on the kitchen |
floor. In that part of the island great quantities of timber jj
were frequently found on the sea-shore, drifted thither from j j
wrecked vessels. On this occasion the miller’s kitchen was |
benched all round with battens and planks of timber, in Ij ,
order to be seasoned by the heat of the fire, which is placed jj
in these dwellings in the middle of the floor. The clergy- j
man had scarcely time to speak, when the goodwife, a very j
respectable woman, told him she was always glad to see j
him, but particularly so^on this occasion. She explained that j
Christy Macleod, a female of known repute as a seer, had j
just been sitting on that plank, warming herself by the fire, | j
when she suddenly fainted and fell on the floor. She further ! j
stated that she carried Christy ben the house and laid her on j
a bed until she would recover. ‘ But,’ said the matron to j
the minister, (you must go to see Christy, and insist upon j
her telling what she saw, as I am in terror that she had an j j
unlucky sight of some of my own children.’ The minister j
very reluctantly complied, and, on entering the apartment, jj
found Christy so far recovered as to bear being questioned, j
He asked the cause of her ailment, and, in short, put the j j
query whether she had seen anything ? She refused to reply, j j
except by the uttering of some evasive answers. He then j j
said to her to tell at once what she had seen, as otherwise j j
he would not leave her until she did. Eventually she ex- j j
pressed herself in timid, tremulous terms, and said that jj
while seated on the wooden bench by the fire she happened ! j
to cast her eyes upon a plank upon the opposite side, and | j
beheld stretched on it the mangled, bleeding body of a lad, j j
Macdonald, then alive and well. Having told this, she j j
solicited the minister not to divulge it. On his leaving the j j j
seer, he was instantly pounced upon by the landlady, and j j
asked, in breathless anxiety, 4 What did she see ? What or j j
whom did she see ?’ His reverence had no alternative but j j
to tell the good matron, for the comfort of herself and her j j
domestic circle, what the woman had revealed. All parties j 1
were then contented, and the affair looked on as a mere j j
reverie. Six weeks or so thereafter, there was a marriage j I
in the upper district of the parish, to which the young man, j !
Macdonald, was invited, and went. On returning home j j
alone about midnight, by a hilly pathway, in the extreme i j
darkness he lost his way, fell over a precipice about a thou- j j
sand feet high, and was dashed to pieces in the clefts of the i j
debris below. He was eventually missed at home. Messen- j j
gers were sent in quest of him hither and thither, and, j j
when no tidings could be found concerning him, the popu- \ j
lation of the district went forth in hundreds on the search, j j
After a day or two’s minute ransacking of every hill and j j
dale, lake and river, the mangled corpse was discovered by j j
a boy jammed hard and fast in a crevice at the base of the j I
huge precipice already named. The crowd assembled around j !
the shattered remains, and a cry was uttered as to what was j j
best to be done? The torn body could hardly be handled, j !
and a proposal was immediately agreed to, that four men j !
should run to the miller’s house for a door or plank to j j
convey the remains to the father’s home. This was done; j
the men rushed forward to the miller’s, and snatched awray j j
the identical plank on which the woman Macleod had seen j j
the vision already related.” jjj
A testimonial of a purse containing £60 was recently presented to ! |!
Dr. Peebles. Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald writes:—“I have received jji
the following sums, which, to save trouble, I have handed directly to the j |
Ladies’ Committee for this testimonial:—From Dr. Stanhope T. Speer, ! j
£2 2s.; from Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, £1 Is.; from Mr. Cornelius Pearson, | j i
JB1.” Some of the other contributions have been previously published, if
NATURE SKETCHES.
(*' rom the Poems of John Ruskin.')
’Twas in the hollow of a forest dim,
Where the low breezes sang their evening hymn,
As in a temple by thick branches aisled,
Whose leaves had many voices, weak or wild ;
Their summer voice was like the trooping tread
Of fiery steeds, to meteor battle bred;
Their autumn voice was like the wailing cry
Of a great nation, bowed in misery;
The deep vast silence of the winter’s wood
Was like the hush of a dead multitude.
And, in.the centre of its summer shade,
Opened a narrow space of velvet glade,
Where sunbeams, through the foliage slanting steep,
Lay, like a smile upon the lips of sleep.
And dew, that thrilled the flowers with full delight,
Fell from the soft eyes of the heaven by night;
And richly there the panting earth put on
A *wreathed robe of blossoms wild and wan:
The purple pansies glowed beneath unseen,
Like voiceless thoughts within a mine serene ;
The passioned primrose blessed the morning gale,
And starry lilies shook in their pavilions pale.
******
And yet it was a strange dim dream :
I drifted on a mute and arrowy stream,
Under the midnight, in a helmless boat
That lay like a dead thing cast afloat
On the weight of the waves ; I could feel them come,
Many and mighty, but deep and dumb;
And the strength of their darkness drifted and drew
The rudderless length of that black canoe,
As the west wind carries a fragment rent
From a thundercloud’s uppermost battlement.
* ■ * * *• * *
There’s but one liberty of heart and soul,
A thing of beauty, an unfelt control—
A flow, as waters flow in solitude,
Of gentle feeling, passioned, though subdued,
When Love, and Virtue, and Religion join
To weave their bonds of bliss, their chains divine,
And keep the heaven-illumined heart they fill
Softly communing with itself, and still
In the sole freedom that can please the good,
A mild and mental, unfelt servitude.
******
The glory of the cloud—without its wane ;
The stillness of the earth—but not its gloom ;
The loveliness of life—without its pain ; •
The peace—but not the hunger of the tomb !
Ye pyramids of God! around whose bases
The sea foams noteless in his narrow cup ;
And the unseen movements of the earth send up
A murmur which your lulling snow effaces
Like the deer’s footsteps. Thrones imperishable!
About whose adamantine steps the breath
Of dying generations vanisheth,
Less cognisable than clouds ; and dynasties,
Less glorious and more feeble than the array
Of your frail glaciers, unregarded rise,
Totter, and vanish.
RESURRECTION.
Turn, turn, my wheel! All life is brief;
What now is bud will soon be leaf,
What now is leaf will soon decay ;
The wind blows east, the wind blows west;
The blue eggs in the robin’s nest
Will soon have wings and beak and breast,
And flutter and fly away.
Prom Longfellow's “ Kcramos."
OUR GREAT LOGICIAN.
(From Light.')
There lived in our city a great logician :
He argued by day, and he argued by night;
He scorned our illogical opposition,
And proved to us clearly that he was right.
Logic is logic : he was so clever
That the light of our faith grew palo and dim ;
We put away God—we thought for ever,
But we still had logic—we still had him !
Indeed, our state would have been perfection,
But somehow we couldn’t abolish pain,
Or sorrow, or death ;—and in weak dejection
Some of us wished to have God again.
It had been a help, there was no denying,
That fiction which logic had driven away;
When joy was dead, and hope seemed dying,
It had been a comfort to kneel and pray.
So we cried for Him and the faith long vanished,
For we needed help in our arduous strife ;
Wo knew that by logic both were banished,
And logic is logic, but life is life.
225
May 10, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
And so we said to the great logician,
“ We cannot argue these things away ;
We thought you had knocked them out of position,
But ’tis somehow a failure—for there they stay.
li ’Tis a wretched sham of an incantation
That is wrought by your divining rod ;
Hear, in our verdict, your condemnation :—
1 Logic is logic, but God is God !’ ”
THE DEAD BISHOP.
Libs the dead bishop on his tomb ;
Earth upon earth he slumbering lies,
Life-like and death-like in the gloom ;
Garlands of fruit and flowers in bloom
And foliage deck his resting-place ;
A shadow in the sightless eyes,
A pallor on the patient face,
Made perfect by the furnace heat;
All earthly passions and desires
Burnt out by purgatorial fires ;
Seeming to say, “ Our years are fleet,
And to the weary death is sweet.”
From Longfellow's u Keramos."
Comaponuence.
[Great freedom it givtn to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.^
THE GROWTH AND DECAY OE THEOLOGICAL DOCTRINES. j \
Sir,—Your journal for November 16th, 1877, contains most important | \
information with respect to the instability, in the long run, of particular !
forms of faith, furnished by the learned Hindoo, Baboo Peary Chand |
Mittra. After telling us (1st) that “ Transmigration was not known in j
India during the Veda period, that the conviction of the immor- !
tality of the soul was most vivid at that time, and was the subject of ! j
the Upanishads and Darsanas," he adds (secondly)—“ Subsequent to 11
the Jltg Veda period, the transmigration doctrine was largely adopted j J
in India, as it was thought to be absolutely necessary for the require- I
ments of those who had not attained the spiritual state.” But (thirdly) 11
he says—“ The light which we in modern India have received, inclines j
us not to accept the doctrine of transmigration or reincarnation, because !
we know psychically—through our own souls—that progression in the j
spirit land is more natural, and more to the advantage of the spirits, !
than progress through transmigratory existences.” Like changes have i \
occurred in the lines of belief from whence Europe takes its spiritual j1
sentiments. In the Pentateuch, future life is kept out of sight. Next, |:
David gives a future joyful existence to the chosen, and measures out \ <
destruction for the rest. David was, however, said not to have gained r
heaven, himself, only 1,800 years ago. The Gospel hesitates between |
destruction and eternal punishment for those who are not the elect, or !'
rather, I should say, dogmatically metes out both ; and I need hardly
add that the latter has been the favourite alternative for a good many ],
hundred years, but that it is losing ground very quickly indeed now, in |1
these days of the electric telegraph, psychic and material. Since the | ]
origin of all religions is spiritual, as well as every line of religious L
thought, the lesson we may learn from the instability of religious I
teaching in Europe, Asia, and all over the world, is that our own j
modern Spiritualism, as well as every form of religious belief, although \i
deeply interesting, as a fact, in its every phase, and true as regards its j
phenomena, and proving for a certainty a future life, yet, from its very j
changeableness, it is not to be depended upon for any reliable statistics
as respects the finality of the course to be run by each member of the j
human race, as I hope to show from authority.
It was long thought that Christianity, having rooted out neo-
Platonism, must stand or fall by eternal punishment; but not so.
Nothing could be plainer than the doctrine as read and taught from j
almost every pulpit only a few years ago. Delicate and susceptible j
minds have been frightened, made reckless, desperate, and mad, by
millions on millions, for the last eighteen hundred years, by this awful
doctrine, and it is still the grand whip in nine English churches out of j
ten ; nevertheless, it is going, going, going ! We may have, perhaps, to
thank modem Spiritualism for this. I mean that Spiritualism which |
had been strongly foreshadowed by the mesmerists in France, but was
revealed finally to a “babe,” as it were, in its truly significant and
nqver before so catholic character, some thirty years ago. Thank God I
that chosen one is with us still. The Homan Church has, of course, to i
be orthodox, and must have a scapegoat for the orthodox creed, so is
prodigal of eternal punishment to the heretic, while very catholic j
indeed towards its own flock—and very properly so. Even Canon
Liddon had to acknowledge, in a controversy about the Athanasian
creed some time back, in the pages of the Guardian, that that creed is i
never read in the presence of the people in the Roman Church, so wise
is she in her generation ; though the Canon contended that it is read in
the early private services of the priests. Surely there was good cause
for the late Archbishop of Canterbury’s enunciation that — ‘‘The
eternity of punishment rests exactly on the same ground as the eternity
of blessedness ; they must both stand or fall together ; and the Church j
of England holds both doctrines clearly and firmly.” Nor can we be
surprised that, in forced accord with a prelate, and as a corollary of this
doctrine, so earnest and faithful a man as Mr. Spurgeon should have !
said, in his familiar way—“ What will you think, when the last day
comes, to hear Christ say, ‘ Depart, ye cursed ! ’ and there will be a
voice just behind him saying ‘Amenj’ and as you inquire ‘Whence
came that voice ? ’ you will find it was your mother ? ” Or can we be
surprised that Jonathan Edwards should have averred—“ However the I
■ saints in heaven may have loved the damned whilst here, their eternal
j damnation will only serve to increase a relish of their own enjoyments! ”~
i But now the change is coming. Eternal punishment is an ill-fitting
| garment in the present independent, inquisitive age; it has served its
j purpose, if it had a purpose, and though fully declared and authenti-
] cated to the plain reader, has to be cast aside, like the old arguments in
j favour of slavery, on the authority of Noah and his congeners. Conse-
j quently, on November 18th last, Canon Farrar preached a sermon in
Westminster Abbey, from the text — “ For this cause was the
| Gospel preached also to them that are dead.” The Court Journal of
November 24th says :—“ Canon Farrar proceeded to denounce, in the
most forcible and even violent terms, the doctrine of eternal punish-
! ment as an offspring of bigotry and superstition. If it could be sup¬
ported by isolated texts, he would set aside the authority of such texts,
as opposed to the general testimony of Scripture, and to the mercy and
j justice of God. But, he believed, speaking as a theologian, that it
could not be supported even by isolated texts. In every case there was
either a mis-translation, or the words used had changed from their
original meaning.” If this be true, to what an abyss of misery and
madness have mankind been subject for so many years, merely from mis¬
translations ! It is strange that mis-translations should have not been
found out earlier, and acted upon, in behalf of poor, suffering, faithful,
earnest humanity, so prone to believe anything that it is taught, though
taught only from interested motives, and to keep power in hand—
supposing the “ mis-translations.” May not mistakes, however, arise
from want of knowledge in the original promulgators of a doctrine ?
Those who desire to read the pros and cons of this dreadful subject—
Eternal Punishment-should study Canon Farrar’s sermons on Eternal
Hope (Macmillan). Or they may study the work, Son, Remember ! by
the Rev. John Paul, rector of St. Alban’s, Worcester, concerning which
The Spiritualist said :—“ No writer of the religious question of man’s
j life beyond the grave has handled the subject so courageously and
I acutely as the author of the volume which is here introduced to our
| readers.” Or they should read a cheap pamphlet, The Reality, but not
] the Duration of Future Punishment, by the Rev. John Barton, M.A.
! (Triibner), written some years back, in more dangerous times, and when
I he was a curate, and for which he suffered severely accordingly, as
i those under direct authority are apt to suffer. I need hardly say that
the Nonconformists are setting the example of casting aside this national,
terrible, long-continued nightmare. I may mention the well-known
Mr. Dale, of Manchester, as one of them; and one of their chief organ?,
The Nonconformist, in the last week of March, reviewing Canon Farrar
and Mr. Samuel Cox, who has written in the same strain concerning
eternal punishment, frankly commends them both. The strongest
argument not only against eternal punishment, but also against any
dogmatism whatever concerning our future, is, to my mind, contained
in two short sentences spoken by one of very high acknowledged
authority indeed ; both sentences setting forth the impossibility of our
knowing anything positive and categorical about (he future at all.
Moreover, one of these sayings was spoken in earth-life, and the other,
confirming it, was spoken as a spirit. The first was propounded about
a future event, the second about future events in general. Here they
are :—“ Of that day and that hour knoweth no man; no, not the
j angels which are in heaven; neither the Son, but the Father.” “ And
I He said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons,
j which the Father has put in His own power*” Apdax,
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—I shall take it as a favour if you will permit me to record in
i your pages the impressions made upon me last Friday by an hour’s
j visit and conversation with my new spirit friend “Lily,” whom I met,
i by favour of Signor Rondi, at his studio in Montagu-place. Signor
| Rondi is an Italian artist, frank and genial, a painter of considerable
power and remarkable versatility.
Our little party consisted of only seven of the usual inhabitants of
i this world: Mrs. Cook, Miss Cook, and her young sister, two ladies,
| Signor Rondi, and myself. Two other guests were expected, but tele¬
graphed their disappointment.
The studio is simply a second floor front, with little furniture and
] many pictures. A green curtain hung across a corner of the room,
behind which was an arm-chair. Daylight was shut out and the gas
lighted. Miss Cook went behind the curtain, and in the space of three
| breaths a young lady, dressed from head to foot in pure white, stood
before us in the opening of the curtain.
Miss Cook, I may observe, was dressed entirely in black, in the usual
elaborate fashion; she wore high boots, closely buttoned. Change of
| costume in the time was impossible. Lily was clothed in the most
I graceful white drapery, which she allowed me to handle and examine,
i The drapery around her head and chest was fine, soft, wonderfully
| elastic, like the most delicate Indian muslins. The skirt was of a
i thicker, heavier kind, like linen.
Lily was introduced to those of us who were strangers to her, to
I whom she spoke in a loud whisper. It was her only voice in a long
conversation, but every word was distinctly heard. At first she
seemed vexed at the absence of some expected visitors. “ Rondi, I am
cross,” she said; “ I am very cross.” “ Why, Lily ? ” “ Because
   did not come. He promised to bring me some flowers, and I
am very fond of flowers.”
The door was locked. Lily had not come by any trap door or sliding
panel. Lily, as I ascertained later, was not the medium. She came
out from the curtain and invited me to come to her. She took my hand
and pressed it heartily—pressed it with great force, indeed, saying, as
| she did so, “ That is for friendship.” It was a pretty hand, and I
j pressed it to my lips. At the request of Signor Rondi she showed us
I one of her naked feet, which she also placed in my hand. Once, when
' I held her hand, she took hold of my hand lyith her other hand, and
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 10, 1878.
drew it up her arm to the elbow, that I might feel how perfectly it was
formed. Re-arranging her dress* she allowed me to come quite near
her and look into her face, examine her features, the colour of her eyes,
her neck, and as much of the bosom as evening dress usually reveals.
A lady present put her hand upon Lily’s white neck and bosom, which
was, of course, a liberty I could not take; and, on taking leave, Lily
kissed that lady’s hand, while she gave me her hand to kiss.
She was very human, this Lily, seeming vain of her dress and of her
person. She borrowed a pair of scissors of Signor Rondi, and, inviting
me to come near her, she took up a fold of the drapery which covered
her bosom, and cut from it a piece six inches long and two and a-half
wide. I clearly saw it cut, clip by clip. She gave similar keepsakes
to two others; yet the dress, a moment after, seemed as perfect as
before.
“ Rondi,” said Lily, “ please give me some cake and a glass of wine.”
Signor Rondi brought some thin, sweet biscuits and a glass of port
wine. She ate part of a biscuit, and handed the rest to me. Then
she stood before us and drank the wine. “ Where will it be when you
are gone?” some one asked. “ It will be in the air all over the room,”
she said.
She had two rings on one of her fingers, one of which she handed to
a lady to examine, who put it on her finger and held it to the light.
She also brought ribbons, one of which she said she had made to tie up
a lock of her hair forcthe gentleman who had promised to bring the
flowers.
“ Lily,” I said, g we are friends, and I have no distrust of you; but
I wish you to give me the best test you can think of, for the benefit of
others.”
” What test shall I give you?”
BI will leave it to you. You are clever enough to give me a
good one.”
“ Well, I will bring my medium out and stand beside her. Will
that do ?’’
“ Perfectly, Lily; nothing could be better.”
“ You shall also go into the cabinet and see how she is dressed.”
The tests were given as desired. I entered the cabinet, and found
Miss Cook sitting in the chair, seemingly in a profound sleep, her hands
folded together in her lap. I passed my hand over her dark wool
clothing and her closely-buttoned boots. Then Lily brought her out
before us all—the two standing side by side; one in black, one from
head to foot in purest white. Then another form in white came on the
other side, and we saw the three standing before us. A little later
Lily said “ Good bye.” I took her hand and pressed it to my lips; she
answered with a gentle pressure, and I was very sorry to have her go,
and hope to see her again.
There can be no doubt of the visible, tangible, individual character of
this materialisation. Mentally and morally she differs from Miss
Cook, though she is like her, as she said, “ as two sisters are like, and
yet unlike each other.” Her manner to me and to the others was
simple, natural, and nicely adapted to the character of each. With
Signor Rondi, as an old friend, she was like a petted child. She was
kindly affectionate to the two lady visitors. She was very friendly and
kind to me, partly because she liked me, and partly because she knew I
would make favourable mention of her medium, who, she said, deserved
all the credit and all the thanks. She was only doing her duty, as her
sole motive was to bring people to a knowledge of the great fact of a
spiritual life. These are nearly her own words, and they were spoken
with every indication of sincerity. T. L. Nichols, M.D.
32, Fopstone-road, London, S.W., May 4th, 1878.
“ ELEMENTARIE S ” OR SAVAGES—WHICH ?
Sir,—I have paid considerable attention to the many letters on
the alleged elementary spirits, which from time to time have appeared
in your columns, and although fully convinced of the reality of ancient
magic, I cannot entirely agree with Theosophists when they attribute
the majority of physical phenomena at seances to what they term sub-
mundane and depraved spirits.
I have seen a great many specimens of what we admit to be human
beings—Bushmen, Korrannas, wild men of Central America, Borneo,
Patagonia, and other parts, who are ethically and aesthetically mere
animals. Now (as these different human species have souls) when such
spirits are attracted to circles, wbat can we expect but physical and
trivial phenomena? They would act just as before they left this state,
and be the same mentally and morally. "We can for a time expect
nothing above their state at the time of disintegration of the body.
Perhaps these primitive beings (elementaries, if you like) can be willed
by adepts to do what they wish them, much as many animals can be
trained and brought completely under the power of men. I have seen
Bushmen and other interior tribes of South Africa who have been
sentenced to imprisonment for life for various crimes, and I must say
that I have never seen elsewhere such diabolical specimens of human
beings. Such beings have spirits (undeveloped), which may appear
perhaps like animals or birds, owing to the grossly animal propensities
and habits they had whilst in the flesh. It is my firm belief that the
elementaries of the Theosophists are spirits of this class, who are what
may be termed Biahkas and Bohemians in a spiritual sense. The
expression of the countenance is ..the index of the mind. When the
form is symmetrical and the expression angelic, the spirit should be
likewise, and vice versd. I must say that the ideas of immortality are
not very comforting, according to Theosophical. views.
I am now reading Isis Unveiled', and agree with nearly everything in
it on Occultism, but that spirits do not materialise. After what I have
witnessed, with tests, from my child, it seems to me to be sheer folly to
attribute the production of manifestations to elementary spirits. What
do Theosophists say about the spiritual manifestations recorded in the
Bible ? Bid Thomas touch an elementary, or was it the form of Jesus
reincarnated temporarily 1
We have much to learn within the next twenty years, and before
adepts speak dogmatically I would advise them to wait for more light.
Until we have psychological laboratories permanently supported by
Government, and records by scientific societies kept and made public,
as in astronomy, geology, and chemistry, we cannot expect to make much
scientific headway in relation to spiritual phenomena. At present we
must only record authenticated psychological facts.
Berks T. Hutchinson.
Cape Town, South Africa, April 5th, 1878.
i \ I PERPLEXING EXPERIENCES.
; ( j
I j j Sir,—I desire to relate an experience in illustration of a question
i ; | raised by C. C. Massey, in The Spiritualist of Jan. 11, 1878, page 20, in
| ( i a letter entitled “ Speculations on Spiritual Agencies.” His specula-
j ( | tions are therein directed to the facts at a siance reported by Mr. Carson,
j) j in The Spiritualist of Jan. 7th, page 10, in which Mr. Carson stated
] j j that through the mediumship of Mr. Wallis, was written “ with great
i ( | distortions of the medium’s body, ‘ I am in great pain, or I would be
! | j able to speak. I have been wounded by the kick of a horse in my leg
| ( | and head. I am not your son, but a friend of his’ (signed Burt),”
j ( I which facts were correct in every particular, the event having occurred
|) | some three weeks previously. Mr. Carson adds in The Spiritualist,
i 1 I Jan. 4th—“ We were total strangers to the medium and the persons we
i | | sat with ; neither the son with me, nor myself, had ever heard of such
Hi a person as Mr. Burt, yet no doubt he was known to my son in Mel-
j|| bourne.”
j||-. The question is what is, or who is, the Intelligence ? Mr. Massey, in
j) i his “ Speculations,” seems to infer that because the communication
! j | read “I am in great pain. I have been wounded,v and this seance
I) | transpired three weeks after this event, that Mr. Burt did not know that
|) | he was disembodied, consequently that he (Burt) did not send the
I (| telegram, and reasons thus—“ Must it not strike every one that Mr.
i j I Carson’s son, whose friend Burt was, is more likely to have been the
| / j source from whence the spiritual telegram sped than Burt himself ? ”
| (| It seems to me that, before we can come to the latter conclusion, we
!) ] must have some proof that an embodied spirit can unconsciously and
II i unintentionally convey information to a distance, of an event known to
i | i the embodied spirit, and unknown to the persons to whom it is con-
j) | veyed, and moreover must actually possess the power to sign the name
III of the disembodied spirit to the message, as if the spirit himself was
I {| the person communicating, which act is a forgery, unless the disem-
|) I bodied spirit (Burt) authorises the embodied (Mr. Carson’s son) to do
u so for him. Have we positive proof that this was ever done ? Why
] (i should it not be as easy for Burt to communicate through the medium,
j) | Mr. Wallis, as to indirectly impress Mr. Carson’s son, and cause his
! 11 mind to become the vehicle through which the information came ? It is
i | not so stated by Mr. Massey, but if true that Burt was not the com-
II j municating source, there was an inaccuracy almost unpardonable if any
| j j intelligent, designing spirit was controlling Mr. Wallis. But I will not
III comment, but give you some facts in my own experience.
]) j A gentleman in California, of whose existence I did not know, gave
i(i to his brother in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A., who was an entire
I stranger to me, information which neither of us could have ascertained,
the controlling influence repeatedly declaring through me, “ I am
Charles Goddard; I am not dead; I am alive; you will receive the
letter within three days which you are so anxiously expecting from me.”
All this was verified, also the subject-matter of the letter.
Mr. Herman Snow, now of California, then in Boston, standing by,
i | i said, “ Of course he is dead, and some spirit friend is speaking for
| \ | him.” The spirit (or the influence) would most vehemently affirm, “ I
iam not dead,” &c., as before.
We never learned that Charles Goddard, of California, was cognisant
of the presence of himself in Boston on that occasion, or that he con-
| sciously made an effort to inform his anxious brother that he was not
ill, as was feared, and that his letter would reach his brother within
i <; three days. If his mother’s spirit, as was suggested by the brother and
j) j Mr. Snow, gave the message, then she forged or falsely represented the
|) j name and identity of her embodied son—a case precisely the reverse of
| {| the one in 'The Spiritualist, for there it is suggested by Mr. Massey
| | that the embodied personated the disembodied. This occurred nearly
|) j twenty-five years ago, and, with similar cases, has never been satisfac-
| < | torily explained.
j V | If Mr. Massey’s conclusions are correct, and Mr. Carson’s son was
|)! “ the source from whence the spiritual telegram sped,” may it not be
111 possible that Charles Goddard was the source whence a telegram sped in
111 his own name, and that no disembodied spirit personated or simulated
! j j his identity?
But let us look for a moment at another phase of the facts, viz., “ I
i) j am in great pain ; I have been ivoundedT It does not follow, according
U I to our experience, because of the tense, ‘‘I aw,” “I have been,” that
] j I this spirit (Burt) was at that moment—three weeks after the accident
Ij and his decease—in great pain. I have personated death-scenes of
| every description, some of them scores of years after they occurred, and
| expressed with mortal lips—by the influence of what I believe were
spirits—their very dying words, in present tense. I have examined
| hundreds of persons for disease—many of them absent—of whom I had
never heard any more than Mr. Wallis had heard of Mr. Burt, Mr.
i Carson, or Mr. Carson’s son in Melbourne; and I have writhed in pain,
as if the disease were actually upon me at that moment, and yet the
] person personated might have once felt the pain I was apparently
I agonising under.
Mr. Massey says, “ The medium feels the pain as evinced by the dis-
i tortions of the body, just as the mesmeric subject feels any sensation
suggested to him.” In that statement lies the secret or true cause of
personating and impressible mediumship; but it is left there by Mr.
Massey without explanation, except the assertion ” he personates the
111 injured man, just as the mesmeric subject will personate under the influ-
May 10, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST
227
ence of suggestion.” Yes, but who was the mesmeriser in this case ?
Who was it who gave the “ suggestion ? ” Was Mr. Carson’s son the
mesmeriser ? was he the one who gave the suggestion—the one who
signed “ Burt ” to the message, without knowledge or design on the part
of the cause of the force which sped the telegram ? Why should not
Mr. Carson’s son unconsciously give the message, and sign Burt’s name,
as well as C. Goddard speak a message through oneself, it may be
asked ? Perhaps it might have been done, but I should suppose it
would have been quite as easy for Mr. Carson’s double to have given
the facts and signed his own name, if the message sped from his brain,
and if he was the cause of the signature “ Burt.” In my case I
suppose that it would have been more consistent for C. Goddard’s
spirit mother, if she were the source of the intelligence, to have said so,
instead of earnestly repeating through me,i( I am not dead ; I am Charles
Goddard ” (a name we had never heard before), and declare that she
was alive and in California. This could not be true if the mother’s
spirit was simulating her son. Here is a subject surely for investiga¬
tion.
As I am perfectly conscious during these possessions, if possessions
they can be called, 1 have the opportunity and ability to judge of their
character quite as accurately as a casual bystander; his power is
limited to what he may see and hear, whereas I have sensational j
emotions and perceptional impressions beyond the cognisance of the
mere beholder or listener. In all candour and frankness, I confess that
notwithstanding an almost uninterrupted experience of these interior
influences for twenty-seven years, I am in doubt, or hold a suspended
judgment, as to the promoting cause, or originating power.
I can only add, at the close of this unpremeditatedly lengthy letter, that I
I am in earnest in this matter. I have a knowledge of my own sen- !
sational, emotional, mental, and physical experiences, and am always
willing to relate and describe them to the best of my ability. I have a
philosophy of my own, which will cover a portion of the facts in my own
possession, and perhaps a minimum of those of others. I know that
these facts exist, and it is my intention to let them have full sway, j
having no fear of demons, but trusting that the facts may reveal in time
their true cause and origin to those savants who are supposed to possess
a deeper knowledge of metaphysics than myself, and a far wider experi¬
ence in the Arcana of thought than has fallen to the lot of your humble j
correspondent. Ella E. Gibson. j
No. 108, South Fourth.street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A., April 22nd, 1878.
THE INSPIRATION OP ANCIENT PROPHETS. J j
Sir,—On the 15th March last, Dr. Wyld, in the course of some
remarks on the above subject, omitted to deal with the fact that St. j
John was in “ the spirit.” The necessity for giving this fact careful )
attention will appear if we notice how it is introduced, and the results \
that follow. See Rev. chap. i. Again, Rev. iv. 1, 2 : A door was )
opened in heaven. John heard a voice saying, “ Come up hither, <
and I will show you things to come ; ” and immediately he was “ in \
the spirit,” &c. Again, Rev. xvii. 3, John talked with one of seven J
angels who carried him away “ in the spirit ” into the wilderness. (
Elsewhere he eats a book. In another place he receives a reed, like | j
unto a rod, to measure. Frequently he is commanded to write what he ])
sees and hears, and in the last verse of chap. x. he is told he must i (
prophesy. From these, and many other passages throughout the Book |)
of Revelations, I would infer that John was not in his normal state. |)
It seems to me that for the time being he became a medium, j
in the power, and under the control of an angel, in order that j j
God might give a revelation to mankind. The question then |)
arises, Who was this angel? Let him answer for himself. In j i
Rev. xix. 10, he says, “ I am thy fellow-servant, and of ! j i
thy brethren the prophets.” Thus it seems to me conclusive that j 1 i
the angel here claims kindred with humanity, his human heart still j ( I
human, the bond of brotherhood still unbroken. This claim to human j j j
relationship is an important point in my question, which Dr. Wyld has j j 1
overlooked. Admit the fact (which seems to me unavoidable, natural, | j j
and full of sweet suggestions) that this angel is human, then Dr. j j j
Wyld’s statement that '* No true Hebrew prophet was ever controlled j ( |
by any departed spirit, and no evangelist ever spoke but as from his j j i
own God-enlightened spirit ” becomes untenable. “ Thus saith the j I
Lord ” does not strengthen the proof which Dr. Wyld has furnished for ( i
his theory. It would be easy to show from the Bible that God has been j j
said to say and do what He has said and done through agencies ; it is j
necessary to keep this in mind, for Jesus, speaking of his Father, says, j 1
“Ye have neither heard His voice at any time, nor seen His shape”
(John v. 37). If God may speak through an agent, why not through a ) j
departed spirit ? The revelation which Jesus sent His angel to show to j j
John is at the same time the revelation of God. The Queen’s speech j j
is the Queen’s speech, although read by one of her ministers. Regard- ? i
ing 2 Chron. xviii., I may remark that Dr. Wyld has not made it clear j j
to me that “ The doctrine of the Bible is, that the control of departed )|
human spirits is necromancy.” Nor that the control of a medium, say by j j I
my sister or brother, would be of a nature similar to the control of the ! | j
false prophets. On the entire subject of control, I think that Dr. Wyld is j j |
taking a good deal for granted as to the meaning of certain portions of j j j
the Bible. The xviii. chap, of 2nd Chron. may be “ a grand chapter,” I) j
and valuable as an evidence of the state of things which existed at the j j ]
time it was written; but there is something grave as well as ” grand ” in j ( j
it, as, for example, verses 21 and 22, where the Lord said to the lying | > j
spirit “ Go,” and is even said to have put the lying spirit in the mouths i) j
of the prophets. I cannot believe that the God whom I love and i ( i
worship ever sanctioned such a thing, but I can believe that it would j > j
be in keeping with His nature to send the great and good of past ages |) i
back to the world in which they lived, and to the people whom they j {1
loved, in order that they might become ministering spirits to the heirs i) j
of salvation. I did not think I)r. Wyld would consider the people of 1 v 1
to-day bound by the verses quoted from Exodus and Leviticus, and I
am glad to have his statement on the subject. In Old Testament times,
as now, there was the use and abuse of spirit communion. I take it
that the abuse of the blessing was the necromancy condemned. Against
the abuse we require still to be on our guard, but the right use of spirit
communion is a blessing which we cannot hold with too firm a grasp,
nor cherish with too deep a gratitude to God, the Giver of every good
and perfect gift. Thos. McKinney.
London-road, Peterborough, March 18th, 1878.
Sir,— I have been anxiously looking for further correspondence about
the inspiration of ancient prophets. The issue raised by Dr. Wyld is
one of great importance from a religious point of view. I agree with
much that Dr. Wyld has written, but I cannot see that he has yet fur¬
nished proof for the statement that “ no true Hebrew prophet ” was ever
controlled by a departed spirit. Can Dr. Wyld say how the inspiration
came to apostles and prophets ? I know the Scriptures say that holy
men of old spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit; but this state¬
ment does not necessarily* exclude the agency or control of departed
human spirits. Mr. McKinney has called attention to the fact that the
angel who showed John the visions professed to belong to the human
family; and, I think, from reading the Book of the Revelations, that
John was in an abnormal state when he had the vision. I think it not
improbable that departed human spirits were the agencies through
whom the blessings of inspiration were given to men and women in
ancient times, even as they are the agencies through whom inspirational
communications came to us in the present day. G. Reedman.
34, Lord-street, Wolverhampton, April 29, 1878.
UNSOLVED PROBLEMS RELATINO TO EMIGRATION.
Sir,—In these days of commercial distress, increasing taxation, and
impending war, many of your readers may anxiously direct their
thoughts to the question of emigration.
It is becoming increasingly evident that there is a large number of
educated Englishmen whose means are insufficient for the support of
their families in their own country, where good openings for advance¬
ment in life are, by excessive competition, becoming fewer every year.
Many of these persons possess a small capital which—in a new country,
where land is a drug in the market, and all the necessaries of life
are cheap—would at once place them in a position of comparative
comfort and affluence; whilst in England (where land is the scarcity
and money is superabundant) their capital is of little or no use;>
them, and hardly sufficient to yield interest for their barest wants.
Most of these persons are not unwilling to work, being only too glad
—as we see every day—to accept any employment here which is not
considered menial; but, as is the case with capital in the money
market, so also with genteel labour, there is more supply than demand.
Others, again, have families and sons growing up, whose future
must cause them no small amount of anxiety. As a writer in the
Spectator recently observed, “ One cannot go anywhere without hearing
the same difficulty talked about by the men of fifty—the difficulty of
finding paying careers for educated sons.”
For all such persons, I venture to suggest that emigration, under
favourable circumstances, would undoubtedly be an incalculable
advantage.
I am, however, well aware that this remedy is distasteful to most
Englishmen, and only regarded as a dernier ressort. This is due to the
fact that emigration by isolated families involves the severance of all
home associations and the friendships of a lifetime. To remove to a
remote part of the world, there to live a life of loneliness and hard¬
ship, deprived of both the comforts and the society they are
accustomed to, is necessarily a step which few families can contemplate
with much pleasure.
The object of my addressing you is to point out that emigration for
educated Englishmen is not only practicable and advantageous, but
may easily be rendered very attractive. To this end “co-operation”
is the first essential.
I propose, therefore, that instead of emigrating singly, all persons of
education and refinement whose thoughts are turning in this direction
—and these are just those persons who can least endure the loss of
home comforts and associations—should combine together and purchase
an estate in a genial climate, within easy reach of England, and settle
on it, near to one another, in fact, to form a model and select English
colony.
It is needless to point out that joint emigration by a large number of
English families, with congenial tastes, taking out with them all their
home surroundings, transplanting many of the habits of life of the old
country, and going out to reside on an estate of the kind suggested in
tasteful homes previously erected according to designs of their own
selection, must necessarily be robbed of all its terrors, and might easily
be rendered extremely attractive.
Persons with small capital would find their incomes doubled, by
reason of being able to invest their money on mortgage at much higher
rates than prevail here, whilst the necessaries of life could be had at
very much less cost. These are material advantages to persons of
limited means which it is needless to enlarge upon.
Lastly, as a lover of my country, I would suggest that it be made a
distinguishing feature of such an undertaking to reproduce a thoroughly
representative English town—retaining all that is good in our social
life, whilst avoiding the narrowness and uncharitableness which the too
artificial life of the old country has in many instances engendered.
By co-operation, the colonists could obtain complete control over the
land, and could reject all undesirable additions to their society, and it
is needless to point out that drinking and gambling saloons and their
habitues would be readily excluded from such a colony by the proper
application of regulations such rs the members could agree on.
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 10, 1878.
In this view of the matter a self-governing colony could be planted
in America or elsewhere, and be quite as British in tone, feeling, and
habits of life as any English country town, since no one could intrude
without permission of the proprietors of the soil.
I might enlarge upon the immense advantages such a colony could
offer to parents who might not themselves care to emigrate, but who
could thus, at a comparatively small cost, secure comfortable homes
and prosperous careers for their sons with far less uncertainty than is
possible in the mother country, and without subjecting them to the
objectionable risks of being sent out to an unknown colony.
If you will kindly give this letter publicity, I believe much benefit
may result to thousands of English families who now regard the future
for themselves and their families with no little anxiety.
I shall be glad to receive any suggestions on the subject, and to co¬
operate with others for the purpose of realising the above objects.
Fredk. A. Binnet.
22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester, April, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM IN HOLLAND.
Sir,—I think that some particulars about Mr. Eglinton’s second visit
at the Hague will interest your readers.
I do not intend speaking about the physical phenomena in the dark,
which were sometimes, as on Tuesday evening last, very strong.
Amongst them we had the floating of a brilliant luminous cross, while
Mr. Eglinton was held in the circle.
On the evening of Tuesday last Mr. Eglinton retired in a good light,
and under spirit control, into the cabinet, and just at the same moment
a full form, a female, came out and showed herself in a light sufficient to
let us see over the whole room. A spirit manifested who seemed to be
a relation of a gentleman present who resided in India. This spirit had
a dark complexion, and wore a black beard. The gentleman named
addressed it in negro-English, and the spirit gave signs as Indians do,
which were perfectly recognised. We saw also the name of Joey
floating round in luminous letters. The latter good spirit more than
once at different sittings amused the sitters with his words of wit and
wisdom. Ernest also spoke afterwards in an elevated way about our dear
cause, and the change called death. His words bore the mark of an
elevated character, and of good, kind feeling.
One of the most remarkable seances I ever witnessed was the last
sitting we had with Mr. Eglinton. In sufficient light, Abdullah,
with his glittering diamonds, and his dagger in his hand ; Joey, who
showed a mass of white drapery ; then a little child, a great strong
man, the good Ernest, and some others, came out of the cabinet;
amongst them a beautiful young female sat on a vacant chair beside
me, and “ threw kisses” all round to the circle. I have seen a good
deal of Spiritualism, but certainly I never was present at a more re¬
markable sitting. Let me say that the conditions were good; there
were a few honest sceptics present.
As to Spiritualism in general in Holland, our good old society
Oromase shows the same life-force which it has possessed since 1858.
A. J. Riko.
Oude Molstraat, No. 8a, The Hague, April 24th, 1878.
WEIGHING MEDIUMS DURING MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—Those who have felt the grasp of a materialised spirit-hand
must be aware that it possesses the quality of weight.
Should the interesting experiments described in your last issue be
continued, might they not be concluded with two weighing apparatus,
instead of one 1 If this were done, the materialised form of John King,
or Peter, when away from the cabinet, might be requested to stand on
the second weighing apparatus; it might thus be possible to ascertain
whether the weight of the materialised spirit form bore any relation to
the weight abstracted apparently from the medium.
Percy Wyndham,
Wilbury House, Salisbury, May 7th, 1878.
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
BY ELIZA BOUCHER.
In continuing my records in relation to the above subject,
I must explain that the following narratives were given me
some months since by a lady whose word it would be simply
ridiculous to call iu question; At the same time, I was
anxious to obtain the account direct from one of the persons
concerned in it. With the greatest courtesy my friend has
produced it for me, and I now give it almost verbatim;—
“ The house in which these strange manifestations occurred
was one of the oldest in the town, with such a heavy, iron-
bound door,- that only a full-grown person had strength to
open and shut it, and the weird-cornered rooms were large
and lofty ; the family only removed there for a time, during
alterations in their own house, and this period was conside¬
rably shortened by the advice of the doctor, as the two chil¬
dren became both weak and nervous in consequence of the
strange experiences of which they were the subjects.
u They were at the time aged about nine and eleven years
respectively, and were not naturally timid at bedtime. The
first figure which presented itself to them was that of an old
Scotchman, in a peculiar Highland dress, who simply stood
by the bedside, gazing intently on the children. There was
nothing ghostly or unearthly about him, The cries of the
children brought their father into the room, and, as he
turned the handle of the door, the figure, without the ceiling
opening) appeared to the terrified children to pass through it,
and disappear.
uThe next time they were disturbed they saw a tall man in
black sitting at the table writing, and so vivid was this
manifestation that they seemed to hear the scratch of the
pen as it moved rapidly over the paper, whilst quite a light
shone around him. After this they become too nervous to
be left alone, so the parents removed them to a bed in their
own room. Here, however, they could not rest, for on the
third or fourth night they both awoke to find a different
figure, a man in an ordinary dress, seated on the edge of the
other bedstead. Their cries awoke both parents, who, seeing
nothing, were inclined to chide the children for their weak
fancies. However they acted on the doctor’s advice, and left
the house as soon as possible.”
The lady adds that on one occasion the children were the
subject of a most peculiar experience, for on kneeling to say
the Lord’s Prayer as usual, they found themselves utterly
powerless to repeat the familiar words. This last fact (as
well as the terror of the young sensitives) rather points to
the conclusion that some evil or mischievous spirits had
gained temporary control over the children, and this leads
to the question why the latter are so Comparatively frequently
open to these peculiar influences ? The strong point in the
above is that both the children witnessed the phenomena at
the same time, and that the one now grown up, who gives
the account (and we may also infer the other), retains after
the lapse of many years such a vivid remembrance of this
exceptional episode in her existence.
In proof that children are singularly open to these in¬
fluences, I may mention that in my own family similar
occurrences have taken place. Some relatives of mine, in
their childhood, inhabited an old house situated in the very
heart of an ancient cathedral city. One of them related to
me the circumstances of this haunting, which was of a most
terrifying character. She was sleeping one night with two-
of her sisters, when a fearful howl awoke her, and, looking
up, an indescribably horrible figure, surrounded by a blue
light, presented itself at the window; a similar figure ap¬
peared on a second occasion in the doorway; and, on a third,
a different and rather pleasing form approached her bed in
the grey light of morning. Now, although my relative
years after the occurrence was as perfectly convinced as ever
of the reality of what she had witnessed, I was pleased at
having it afterwards confirmed by a brother of hers, whose
whole character is as utterly unspiritualistic as can possibly
be imagined. On mentioning the subject to him, he ex¬
claimed, <£ Oh ! that was true, for once I saw it my¬
self, and was terribly frightened.” Both these individuals
possessed the peculiarly dark, deep eye which frequently
characterises the spirit medium. So strong at last did this
strange power become, that once, when the principal seeress
was sleeping with a younger sister, the bed-clothes were
violently pulled, and an attempt was apparently made to
sufibcate the children. Now, in this account, as in the
above, the strong point is that we have more than one
witness to its truth. I place the narratives side by side.
They are given by persons entirely unknown to each other ;
they happened in different parts of England, and yet so
strong is the resemblance between them that we must regard
them as belonging to the same phase of the phenomena, and
as mutually supporting each other.
I know of two other cases of hauntings, one almost
analogous to that of the Wesleys, and another given me by
a clergyman, and better authenticated than any I have yet
met with, on account of the conditions and circumstances
attending it. But as I have not his consent I must sup¬
press its publication. These powerful weapons against the
ever-increasing army of the Materialists are in the hands
too often of those who allow the two-edged sword, which
the Rev. Maurice Davies wields so nobly, to rust in its
scabbard. The spiritual death of perhaps thousands is the
result, but when the momentous question is asked, “Who
slew all these ?” will not the mournful reply be forced
from the lips of some of England’s clergy and England’s
teachers : “Ye are verily guilty concerning your brethren.”
Albion-villa, Fremautle-square, Bristol,
May 10, 1878
THE SPIRITUALIST-
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Bepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PBIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting '.and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing Interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,’.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo„ 16s.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s ed.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratiyes
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be estabiished, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes Of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Bddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiraut n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant, 6s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . •
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ It. „
The Seer. „III.
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, .
The Thinker. „ V, „ . •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health . . . . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmoniai Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . . .
Morning Lectures
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 a
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . ... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . ', 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . , . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges,by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes: or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. .• . . . . . • . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . - . . . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the '
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.’’—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ’hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’’—South Wales Daily
Hews
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free,
w. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street. London, W.O.
Heaven opened,- or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price fi t., paper cover, -‘Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is, The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
“ORIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
JL> tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St, Jamea's-stroet; and Mr. Boughton, St. George's-
road.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edgea
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCH O GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Ihtroduction.
Psycography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychic*.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. Georg*
King," Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. K.Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayeuis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation o /
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slad* before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of th*
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the.Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist's Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
. Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the tranee-me-
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marry at—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burue—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from th*
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies. D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burk*
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “M.A , Oxon."
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Lcngfellow’s Position in
Relaticn to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among tha
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voica of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—•
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of'the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C. 
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing Instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may ba
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” cr
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistie, consequently irreligious age.’’
if
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATUBE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
FNO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Siomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO'S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit wliich is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
frora poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may proven means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
C'NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make "this
fact well known.”
F^NO’S FRUIT SALT. —- A Lady writes : —
-i “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to'act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was ode of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
"WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
gNO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL LiXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF. INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face. Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit, in the natural way
n which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.   
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers, ,,
Blood Poisons, &c., are.Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a.
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent iorm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this prepar ation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding,digestion is most striking.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H, HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Olaxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part L—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor 3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man —6 The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to AH Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the TM other in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision;—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblqaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press,
From ’ The Morning Post.
The Morning Post; which strongly recommends the book in a
review neariya column long, saj’sComic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobolejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“AH are of marked ability... . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic. •
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseH-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable hits is tlie Turk’s account of how he
went to he photographed.”
. From Public Opinion, •
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“ An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at aU ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and tlie imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We. believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will-make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shaeabac. an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is weU done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
[^NO'S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
h# products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of Indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury. "
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HE ART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
hut very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, 1 fee) it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please —I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 80, 1877—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/'CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
VV Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Frdit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
  Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s, 6d.
$£* Agent for Fam-PHARMACIE DE BERAL. I RUE DE
LA PAIX.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific foUies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman. ,
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...* How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ wiU be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.’’
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound iir cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatUe member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.” a
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known Contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeUng which wHl make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, wiU find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
May' IQ,- 1878.
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prese essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many tirv.es over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appejied in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
an) which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
ire*e member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] .. .“It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, isopund in cloth richly gUt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late "Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also he had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep "Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV;—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
• CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retro vision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Trinsference of Senses and of Pam.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method audits Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER Vll:—Trance. Natural and Accidental: Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S >i ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Ahimals — Instinct—sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenorrena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiologicai, Therapeutical, etc —Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium, of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the SuWect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
holism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future,
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Watei
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER X ill:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreuo-MesmerLm in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI —Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridgk & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. At.t.bk, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
