“ Psyche,” formerly M The Spiritualist” Price Sixpence. No. 493
PSYCHE.
MARCH.
1882.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Contributors are requested to let their com¬
munications be brief and well-considered.
Many more contributions received than space
can be found for, we should like to print in
this number. As it is, a portion of the cover
is utilised.
The following letter from Colonel Olcott
makes reference to some former letter which
has never been received by us:—
To the Editor of c‘ The Spiritualist'’
Sir,—About two months ago, I sent you
from Ceylon a letter respecting my personal
knowledge of the so-called “Himalayan
Brothers/’ which has not yet been published
in your columns. It was called forth by your
editorial remark that I had not given public
testimony to the fact of their existence; and
the necessary implication is that my silence
was due to disbelief in the same, or at least to
lack of proof sufficient to make me willing
to so commit myself. Pray allow me to set
the question at rest, once for all:—
I have seen them, not once but numerous
times.
I have talked with them. I was not en¬
tranced, nor mediumistic, nor hallucinated,
but always in my sober senses.
I have corresponded with them: receiving
their letters, sometimes enclosed inside the
letters of ordinary correspondents upon com¬
mon-place subjects, coming to me by post;
sometimes written on blank spaces or margins
of such ordinary letters | sometimes dropped
to me in full light from out the air; some¬
times, in their own covers, through the post,
and from places where I had no other corre¬
spondents, and where they personally did not
reside ; and in other ways. I have seen them,
both in their bodies and their doubles, usually
the latter. ..
Eirst and last, as many as thirty or forty
other witnesses have seen them in my
presence.
I have thus personally known “ Koot
Hoomi ’’ since 1875, making his acquaintance
at New York.
Since November last four different Brothers
have made themselves visible to visitors at
our head-quarters,
I know the Brothers to be living men and
not spirits; and they have told me that there
are schools, under appointed living adepts,
where their occult science is regularly taught.
It is all this actual knowledge of them and
close observation of multifarious phenomena
shown by them, under non-mediumistic con¬
ii
ditions, that has made me take the active part
I have in the theosophical movement of the
day.
And their precept and example b ave made
me try to do some practical good to the Asiatics.
For their lives and their knowledge are de-
voted to the welfare of mankind. Though
unseen by, they yet labour for, humanity.
The first lesson I, as a pupil, was required by
them to learn and, having learnt, to put into
practice, was—Unselfishness. For the sake
of their fellow men some of them have made
sacrifices as great as any that history records
of any philanthropist.*
Your “ S.” (Spiritualist, Jan. 20th)is asibil-
lant cackler, and your man “ Beyond the
Grave ” another. Their talk is that of the
ignorant. If they want to be convinced
(which does not appear certain) of the practi¬
cal benefit our Theosophical Society is doing,
let them come here; visit our branches in
India and Ceylon; talk with our members,
of various races; examine our schools ; see
our vernacular publications; mingle with the
crowds that throng at our lectures; and take
a consensus among the missionaries (whose
diatribes are our best certificates). The
Amritza Bazar PatriJca is, I believe, the most
widely circulated vernacular paper in India.
It says of me (Jan. 12) “ whether there be
* Himalayan Brothers ’ or not, there is at
least one white pian who is acting like a
brother to the Sinhalese, and will as occasion
permits it act similarly to the Hindus. If it
be not asking too much, we would request
the Colonel to come to the City of Palaces
and enlighten the Calcutta public on subjects
with which he is so familiar and which are
calculated to do so much good to the Hindoo
nation. . .
I In conclusion, if you or your correspondents
can show that in a single instance our Society
has done harm to the community or to in¬
dividuals, I ask you to make the fact known.
I believe that we are doing good, practical as
well as spiritual, and that we can prove it by
“ a multitude of witnesses.” H. 8. Olcott.
Theosophical Society, President’s Office.
Bombay, February 7th, 1882.
DR. YAZEILLE ON MR. HUSK’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Dr. Yazeille, of Issy-sur-Seine, has written
to Mons. Leymarie, of 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, a report of a seance with
Mr.* Cecil Husk, which report was lent to us
during our recent visit to Paris, by Mons.
Leymarie, for the publication of the particulars
in this journal. / \ ' ' v-;/- / -
P S Y C H K.
No. 493. (Vol. 21. No. 1). MARCH, 1882.
MONTHLY.
SIXPENCE.
"""PnceTsT6ct. drown 8vo. 6lolh. ijl'jges! 
A PHILOSOPHY OF IMIVIORTALITY.
By THE HON. EODEN NOEL
Author of “ A Little Child’s Monument,” etc.
Psyche Office, 38, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo. Cloth. Gilt. Handsomely Printed in Red and Black Inks. Price 5s. 6d., Post Free.
NOW READY,
A GLANCE AT THE PASSION PLAY.
By CAPTAIN R. F. BURTON.
The Frontispiece represents the Crucifixion scene of the Passion Play at Oberammergau.
THIS WORK CONTAINS SEVERAL PAGES ON THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF SPIRITUALISM.
Psyche Office, 38, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Demy 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges. Price 12s. 6d. Post Free.
ILLUSTRATED BY VARIOUS FULL PAGE AND DOUBLE PAGE ENGRAVINGS.
TRANSG.ENDENTAL PHYSICS.
AN ACCOUNT OF EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS FROM THE SCIENTIFIC TREATISES OF
_ JOHANN CARL FRIEDRICH ZOLLNER,
Professor of Physical Astronomy at the University of Leipsic ; Member of the Royal Saxon Society of Sciences ; Foreign Member of the Royal
Astronomical Society of London; of the Imperial Academy of Natural Philosophers at Moscow; and Honorary Member of the Physical
Association at Frankfort-on-the-Main.
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN, WITH A PREFACE AND APPENDICES, BY
\ CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY, (of Lincoln’s inn, Barrister-at-Law.l
Psyche Office, 38, Museum Street, London, W.C.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,’
38, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES,
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ CM it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.
\ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
< he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way,”—The Publisher's Circular.
Psyche Office, 38, Museum-street, London, W.C.
IP S "ir O ZEE IE .
ii
iiiiiiiiiifi
THE PROPOSED CHEAP EDITION OF
Zollner’s “ Transcendental Physics.”
A considerable number of volumes of the proposed
cheap edition of the above work has been ordered, but
not enough, up to March 1st, to warrant placing the
book again in the press.
Those who facilitate the bringing out of the book by
ordering copies before it goes to press, will be supplied
with the said copies at 2s. 6d. each, whereas, after
publication its price will be 3s. 6d.
Orders for the book should be sent to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Museum Street, London.
WORKS BY THE HON. RODEN NOEL
THE RED FLAG-,
AND OTHER POEMS.
Small 8vo., 6s.
By The HON. RODEN NOEL.
“ There are poetry and power of a high order in the volume
before us. The ‘RedElag’ is a terrible and thunderous poem.
There are fine sympathies with the sorrows of London life and
wonderful knowledge of them. Perhaps one of the most solemn,
awful poems of the present century is ‘ The Vision of the
Desert.’ ... Let his imagination and metaphysical faculty be
well yoked and guided by his own cultivated taste, and we must
all admit the advent of a great poet.”—British Quarterly Review.
DALDY, ISBISTER, & CO., 86, LUDGATE HILL, LONDON.
BEATRICE,
AND OTHER POEMS.
Ecap. 8vo, 7s.
By The HON. RODEN NOEL.
“ It is impossible to read ‘ Beatrice ’ through without being
powerfully moved. There are passages in it which for intensity
and tenderness, clear and vivid vision, spontaneous and delicate
sympathy, may be compared with the best efforts of our best
living vnUers.”—Spectator.
MACMILLAN & CO., LONDON.
LIVINGSTONE IN AFRICA.
Small 8vo., limp cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
By the HON. RODEN NOEL.
“There are some striking passages of description.”—Athenaeum.
“We should say that if any one wants to imbue himself, as far
as the medium of language will enable him to do so, with the
moral and physical nature of this great unknown world, he can
hardly do better than study Mr. Noel’s poems.”—Spectator.
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, LOW & SEARLE,
Ceown Buildings, 188 Eleet Street, E.C.
THE HOUSE OF RAVENSBURG,
A DRAMA,
By the HON. RODEN NOEL.
“ This story is much more powerful than appears in the fore¬
going narrative, and in its presentation of vague terror recals
the famous verse of Dobell—
‘O Keith of Ravelston, the sorrows of thy line.’
Portions of the treatment are fine, we might almost say splendid
from the poetical standpoint.”—Athenaeum.
DALDY, ISBISTER, & CO., 56 LUDGATE HILL, LONDON.
A LITTLE CHILD’S MONUMENT.
By THE H O N. R 0 D E N N O E L.
Third Edition, small crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d.
“ We do not know where, in all the range of English Poetry,
to look for so forcible an expression of utter grief as is presented
in some of the poems.”—Scotsman.
LONDON: C. KEGAN PAUL & Co., 1 PATERNOSTER SQ.
PSYCHE
' (Formerly The Spiritualist). Established in 1869.
Published Monthly. Price Sixpence.
Subscription to the present volume (ten numbers from March to
December 1882), 5s. 10d., Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
38, Museum-street, London.
The following Authors have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to this journal :—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg
(Russia).
The Lord Lindsay, F.R.S., (Earl
of Crawford and Balcarres),
President of the Royal Astro¬
nomical Society
The Right Hon. the Countess
op Caithness
The Hon. Roden Noel
The Baroness Von Vay, Coun¬
tess Wurmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Dirckinok-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Portugal
M. Adelberth de Bourbon,First
Lieut, of the Dutch Guard to
the King of the Netherlands
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, William Crookes, Esq., F.R S.
St. Petersburg C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
Madame Juliet Heurtley
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
Samuel Guppy, Esq.
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Miss Douglas
G. C. Ottley, Esq.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
S. C Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
F. Podmore, Esq., B.A. (Oxon).
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
William Oxley, Esq.
M.B
Esq.,
Esq.,
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D. Mrs. Matheson
John E. Purdon, Esq.,
Surgeon-Major, A.M.D.
George C. Joad, Esq.
St. George W. Stock,
M.A., (Oxon)
E. Fortescue Ingram,
M.R.C.S.
Mynheer J. F. A. Cateau van
Rosevelt, Mem. Privy Coun¬
cil of Dutch Guiana
R. Friese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A-
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M
(Cantab)
Major-General Maclean
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Mrs. Gordon, (India)
J. 0. Luxmooee, Esq., J.P.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
0. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Miss C. A. Burke
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. Maurice Davies, D.D
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
C. Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mme. Blavatsky, (India)
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Markley, Esq.
Herr Christian Reimers
Mrs. Louisa Andrews
Mrs. E. Boucher
Mrs. Nosworthy
Algernon Joy,Esq.,M.Inst C.E.
John P. Turner, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.
The Rev. W. Whitear
Signor Rondi
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
D. FitzGerald,Esq.,M.S.Tel.E.
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
Mrs. Woodforde
William White, Esq.
Miss Corner
Miss Florence Marryat
Madame Isabel de Steiger
Mrs. Showers, (India)
Robert Cooper, Esq.
Psyche is regularly on sale at 38, Museum-street, London;
5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris; 84, Russell-
street-South, Melbourne ; and at the chief centres cf Spiritualism
in Europe and America.
Advertising terms on application
No. 493. (Vol. 21. No. 1.) MARCH, 1882. PUBLISHED
gyxrgygyggggggygaagaggggaaagggyygggggggg-g^gggsatygsEgggRgaaaggggg.araaaggzraagggaggaaagggg^^jiM^kg
PSYCHE.
On the 18th February last a circular letter
containing the following paragraph was sent
by the Editor to many subscribers to The Spi¬
ritualist newspaper :—“ There are numerous
medical and other psychologists who are not
modern Spiritualists, therefore I have been
considering the question of changingthe title
of The Spiritualist to Psyche, to facilitate the
inclusion in its constituency of all persons
working at psychological research. I concluded
that the best plan was to consult by this
circular letter some hundreds of its supporters
in this country, so shall he very much obliged
if you will favour me by sending your opinion
about the suggested change of name, and let
it reach me not later than Wednesday morn¬
ing next.”
The result has been an overwhelming
majority of replies in favour of changing the
name of this journal to Psyche. Accordingly
Psyche appears to-day, and as an illustrated
periodical, published monthly; the desire
exists to bring it out at shorter intervals at
some future time, should the journal in its
new form be warmly received and supported.
For the numerous expressions of sympathy
and encouragement contained in the replies,
we have pleasure in now returning thanks to
the writers, and hope that the ruling spirit
of Psyche will be one of peace and goodwill to
all men.
The engravings contained in Psyche this
month chance to be of a scientific character,
but it is not intended to hereafter confine
them exclusively to that groove, but to give
pictures of all kinds of subjects and events
of interest to our readers.
THE HON. RODEN NOEL.
The latest important addition to the litera¬
ture of Spiritualism is A Philosophy of Im¬
mortality by Mr. Roden Noel, who is a poet,
essayist and metaphysician of established
reputation. Throughout the book Mr. Noel
testifies to the reality of the phenomena of
Spiritualism, partly from his personal ex¬
amination thereof, but chiefly from the
accumulated weight of the testimony of
others. The support of so able an advocate,
who is fearless in speaking out that which he
believes to be true, and in doing so with
efficiency, is of high value.
Mr. Roden Noel was born in London, and
d
ip srsr cue.
<8g%jm&&:
VAVi
lVIIVIWIWAV^v^vi^y^^
brought up partly at Harrow, partly by a
private tutor. The Noels, Earls of G-ains-
borough, a Norman family which came over
with the Conqueror, have long been seated at
Exton in Rutlandshire and held large pro¬
perty there. Mr. Noel’s father was grandson
of Lady Jane Noel, daughter of the seventh
Earl, who had no son, therefore the title was
revived in his father’s favour. His mother
was a daughter of the Earl of Roden, and
was one of the Queen’s ladies. The Earls of
Roden are Jocelyns, also a Norman family
which came over with the Conqueror. Mr.
Noel’s grandmother, Jjady Roden, bore a
famous historical name; she was the daughter
of the twenty-second Baron Le Despencer,
one of a family of Barons who made their
mark in English history, chiefly in the time
of the Plantagenets. One of them was among
those instrumental in getting King John to
sign Magna Charta at Runnymede; others
however were not so good as they might have
been, so history deposeth. They have fine
Grothic tombs in the old Abbey at Tewkesbury.
At Exton, where many of Mr. Roden Noel’s
earlier days were spent, is an interesting old
church, with monuments of the Noel and
Harrington families, and a picturesque old
Gothic house of theirs, half in ruins. From
marriage with the heiress of the Harrington
family the Noels obtained Exton. One of
the Harringtons was the author of Oceana.
After taking the degree of M.A., at Cam¬
bridge, Mr. Roden Noel was for two years in
Eastern countries, travelling chiefly by him¬
self with servants, on horses or camels, in
Syria, Asia Minor, Greece and Turkey. He
went to Palmyra from Damascus with Lady
Ellenborough, the Lady Hester Stanhope of
modern days, who when divorced from Lord
Ellenborough married an Arab chief and was
Queen of the Arabs in the desert. He was
also a little while with Lady Strangford and
her sister, and Carl Haag, the painter, in
those parts. Mr. Noel took a dahabeesh on
the Nile for two successive winters. He
caught bad typhoid fevers in Syria, and was
laid up a long time; he was then nursed by
his mother-in-law at Beyroiit. Her husband
was the head of the Ottoman Bank, in
Beyrout, and Mr. Roden Noel married after
this in England. Since then he has climbed
in the Alps a good deal, and done much
swimming on the coast of Cornwall, and in
M
the beautiful zoophyte caves of Sark, where
he frequently goes for that purpose. We
have seen the yataghans, daggers, and various
relics he has collected in the course of his tra¬
vels, and which are now stored in his house.
Lately he has been travelling in Corsica.
When the war broke out between the
Druses and Maronites in Syria, Mr. Noel was
residing in a village of the Lebanon in which
the outbreak took place, and had rather a
narrow escape from stray bullets, but both
sides were friendly with him and he with
them. He allowed them to send the wounded
to his house. Mr. Noel has travelled much
in the East. He has discovered a petrified
forest in Nubia in an oasis previously un¬
visited ; he was then with Mr. Cecil Graham.
He once rode across the desert from Egypt
to Syria with his servants alone. They were
set upon by robbers, who did not succeed in
their attempt; there was no fighting, but
they accepted the advice given them to respect
English firearms.
The first book of poetry by Mr. Roden
Noel was published in 1863, under the title
of Behind the Veil; this work was a some¬
what crude and juvenile production, written
just after he returned from his travels. It
was followed in 1868 by Beatrice and other
Poems, about which the great French critic,
St. Beauve, a total stranger to Mr. Noel,
wrote to him warmly, and translated portions
into French.
The third poetical work by Mr. Roden
Noel, The Red Flag and other Poems, appeared
in 1872 ; the fourth, Livingstone in Africa in
1874; the fifth, The House of Ravensburg in
1877, and the last of his poetical works, A
Little Child's Monument, in 1881. The Red
Flag is a satire, and deals with the formidable
chasm yawning between the rich and the
poor of this country; Ravensburg deals with
the philosophical idea of hereditary sin and
misery.
Short accounts of Mr. Noel’s Syrian and
Eastern experiences, written by himself,
appeared in Galton’s Vacation Tourists, 1860,
and in Lady Strangford’s Egyptian Sepulchres
and Syrian Shrines, 1861. Some of his
mountaineering exploits are recorded in The
Alpine Journal, and in Macmillan’s Magazine,
1869. Swimming is more the rble of Mr.
Noel than mountaineering, and some of his
experiences therein will be found in The
IP Sir OIHIIE! .
3
HwraHW
Gentleman’s Magazine, 1878. Fraser's Mag¬
azine of about the same date contains an
essay of bis on Corsica.
For two or three years Mr. Boden Noel
was about the Court, as Groom of the Privy
Chamber to the Queen. Lately he has spent
three years at San Bemo, on the Riviera,
where the greater portion of his latest work,
A Philosophy of Immortality, was written.
For many years Mr. Roden Noel was a
complete sceptic, and wrote Spencerian
articles in The Contemporary Review. At the
death of his little son his opinions, and indeed
the whole bent of his life, underwent a revo¬
lution. He is now a Christian, as he was
brought up, but not one of the most orthodox
and rigid type.
OF LIFE
THE PSYCHO - PHYSICAL BASIS
AND MIRACLE.-
BY JOHN E. PURDON, M.B.
It is necessary and sufficient for the understanding of
the physiological interpretation of the variation of the
sphygmographic traces of nervous sensitives under ex¬
ternal influences, to assume that in connection with the
double nervous system of the animal body thepe is a kind
of life stuff produced by the vital processes, a form of
matter possessed of certain physical properties which
enables us to trace an analogy between it and the
imaginary magnetic matter of the physicist.
I am of opinion, from extensive study of the nature of
the nervous sensitive, that we have no such thing as a
violation of the physiological order in any manifestation,
however strange, even when certified to by what appears
to be an external disturbance, which half educated
physicists would reject nem. con., on the ground that if
it existed it would imply a violation of the order of
Nature! Just as in pathology abnormal changes are
merely natural changes modified, or exaggerated, so in
patho-neurology, we must be prepared to find a place for
that side of mediumism which indicates disturbance and
disease. The most remarkable experience I have found
in my ten years’ study of this branch of psychology is
that which has pointed out to me the continued existence
of such an apparently profound modification of the
nervous functions, as that which we would naturally
assume to accompany mediumistic manifestations, without
the advent of organic disease of a rapidly destructive
character. I am therefore, as I remarked in previous
papers, obliged to regard the subject from the standpoint
of functional derangement.
The imaginary physiological matter, the existence of
which I have above assumed, and which is to me a
working hypothesis, nay more, a working reality, has
suggested itself no doubt to other medical men, who
have feared to express themselves openly on the subject
from want of certain links by which they would be
enabled to attach the new science to the main body of
natural knowledge which the united labours of the race
have reduced to law and order.
Let us assume that in every completed effort, conscious
or unconscious, in the universe, there is a neutralisation
of opposing forces, and let us, in applying this idea to
the living body—the duplex living animal body—remem¬
ber that the immediate source of energy, the blood, is
undirected as far as the polarity of the body is concerned
and we have at once a consistent theory of animal
magnetism with which to account for the aberrations of
the nervous system during many of the simple, as well
as complex, disturbances, which, whether regarded as
occurring within the limits of the body and coming
under the name of disease, or external to the body and
inferentially related to hypothetical physiological changes,
have hitherto so far puzzled the learned as to induce the
great majority of them to shut their eyes and deny their
existence altogether.
Let us suppose that in every thought, word, and deed
an astatic state is determined, that is to say, that an
imaginary pseudo-magnetic matter enters into combina¬
tion with itself, so as to lose certain qualitative elements
formerly possessed while in the purely potential state.
Let us further suppose that this stuff is of such
a nature as to be subject to the influence of physical
agents acting on the body, so as to present resultants
into the composition of which may enter elements of a
purely vital, and of a so-called inanimate origin; we
have then the basis of a theory of Magnetism, Mesmer¬
ism, Spiritualism, and that strange Odylism, which at¬
tracted so much attention more than a generation ago.
This hypothesis implies neither more nor less than the
fluent nature of the whole Universe set into form, and
keeping its form in obedience to laws, the nature of
which can never reveal itself except in the actual ex¬
perience, but which have corresponding to them laws
and principles in the world of potentiality, i.e., the world
of spirit; an important consideration, for as an eminent
physicist^has pointed out, the expressions for potential
energy indicate its essential relationship to energy of
motion. Thus, I see and know the world around, men,
rocks, stars in a constructive process; a process which
is given in and by realised effort, (not of course volun¬
tarily, for volition plays as comparatively insignificant
a part in the constructive process as sensation does in
the interpretation of the same). The polarity of space,
occupancy, and force manifestation in the external world
of material existence, has corresponding to it a polarity of
the representative process as indicated by the duplex
nervous system, and the crossed influence of the nerve
centres upon their corresponding instruments of ex-
ternalisation.
Given then a case in which a man can act upon matter
so as to produce an extraordinary change in either its
external or internal condition; we have in the first in¬
stance to consider a question of motion and energy,
easily followed from the analogy of the ordinary, but in
the latter case, where a change is apparent or necessarily
inferred in the structure of matter, the constructive pro¬
cess is to be considered, and with that its co-relative pro¬
cess, the representative, if we are to be consistent and
true to the modern methods of thought, in spite of the
apparent violation of the conclusions arrived at by in¬
duction. The Materialist says the world came from
original potentialities, and that consciousness and the
intellectual reduction of that world to law and order, are
facts to be sure, but merely bye products which are not
necessarily evolved. The Idealist may say that there
was an original potentiality of knowledge, which was,
in fact, brute ignorance in a positive form, the diffused
ignorance correspor ding to the diffused energy. But the
Idealist, or the believer in nothing but a world of mind,
has no right to say this, except he can place himself in two
positions at once, the present and the past, whereby he
is enabled to follow the process of evolution step by
step. This he can descriptively do through memory
combined with imagination, which gives the law of the
changing internal world, which common sense, that
highest court of appeal, says, has corresponding to it a
law or principle in what we call the external world.
The fact is, all that enters our thoughts, whether the
external world through the senses, or our own constructions
from within, are so far as we are conscious of them ex¬
ternal, for consciousness has a physical basis; one of the
strongest inductions we can draw. It is the unknown,
the purely potential, which is in the world of Spirit, the
true internal world. The internal world is not the
world of my own thoughts; I give up that idea as false,
for the world of matter rules, and its laws hold wherever
consciousness with a formed product exhibits itself.
Such always involves a turning out, a construction, a
common symbolic existence actually of possibility available
to the whole race. But behind and below my thoughts,
and in vital connection with them, lie the possibilities
which may or may not be for me, but which most cer¬
tainly are for the race; behind my empirical self, my
sum of experience, lies the subject, the spirit, the symbol
of whose law of operation involves the necessary, but yet
quite consistent, use of algebraic imaginaries.
I may be permitted to say that it was from the dis¬
covery of such a form that I was enabled to construct a con¬
sistent theory of the actual out of the possible, and using
the most abstract conceptions to devise a method of inves¬
tigation of a physico-psychological mystery which with
me now takes its place in the hierarchy of the sciences,
but at the head of them all. Spinoza gave us the
fundamental conception lying at the bottom of this argu¬
ment, and modern science grafted upon his philosophy
enables us to handle formed thoughts through their
representative symbols. The philosophy of the future
and our great expected advance in psychology turns upon
the fact that through the study of the perturbations of
nervous individuals we are able to get at the experi¬
mental investigation of the representative process jtself,
and see with the eye of science fragments of the external
in process of manufacture, for the external exists for
us only in terms of its representative image. Having
made such a discovery and verified the truth of the tem¬
porary manufacture of one knock, one hand, or one
figure, our faith will revive sufficiently to grasp the holy
truth that the life of the Spirit in whom we may yet live
and move and have our being, is not the absurd dogma
which the false prophets of science declare it to be. . . .
The diffused potentiality of the modern physicist is
the counterpart of the polytheistic worship of ancestors
and others, which is endeavouring to force itself upon
society by the appeal ad vericundiam. The modern
Materialist shuts the door upon God and locks Him out
of His own Universe : the modern Spiritualist opens as
many doors as there are mediums, and lets in gods and
goblins as many as choose to enter. Both preach the
restoration of chaos, grounding their working assumptions
upon man’s ignorance and his inability to account for
matter of fact; the former that of the possible, the
latter that of the actual. It is making a false use of the
representative faculty to attempt to deal directly with
the potential or the spiritual. Matter, a thing picturable,
the real in the present as it is the real in space, a bi¬
polar complex, did not exist from the beginning : That
from which come the two sides existed from the be¬
ginning. It alone is substantial reality.
If at the beginning of all things (a mere working
picture of the scientific imagination, having no possible
graspable existence in any other terms than words), a
diffused mass existed, I say, that, as I am here now, and
as my body assists my unknown ego to express itself, the
mental as well as the physical side of evolution is to be
considered, and that for me the English language is as
much a product of evolution as the world which it helps
my reason to grasp. Diffused life stuff not yet set into
the shape of life, language, and reason, is as real to me
as diffused fire mist not yet reduced to worlds and human
bodies. To talk of a diffused and potential Shakespeare
in the fire mist is to talk nonsense, but some have done
so who thought they were quite consistent in their
babble, and that the analogy of cosmical change justified
such abuse of language. The hypothesis so valuable
must not be brought to shame and ridicule by active but
shallow philosophers, and I therefore protest against the
study of psychology from anything but the standpoint of
the present and the actual.
I say, therefore, that the diffused life stuff, if it exists
at all, exists in our own bodies, and that it is worse for
us when it does exist so diffused, as then it is a mis¬
chievous agent very well known to physicians under
different titles. I have seen it causing functional angina
pectoris, neuralgia, diarrhoea, rheumatic gout, &c., &c.,
from the fact that the functions of the organism, which,
when all working harmoniously, determine health, were
so deranged that neutralizations of certain properties of
the life stuff did not take place at the proper time and
place. Let the reader not fall into the error that I am
advocating the existence of what of old was called “ the
vital force.” The word force implies a directive phy¬
sical cause in space ; or it implies a rate of doing work
according to the point from which it is regarded, and
therefore I avoid its use. My conception involves more
the ideas of process and plan and the agent in and by
which they are determined and executed. This agent
is extra-spacial or rather supra-spacial in its essence and,
having eternity for its form, which potentially supplies
its effects, under the form of space whenever it de¬
termines the existence of the actual. It is not electricity
as ordinarily understood, for electricity is an existence
into which the qualities plus and minus alone enter,
whereas the life stuff is that of which electricity is merely
the formal degradation, as inanimate matter (so-called)
is of living matter.
Determined to action, there is given either a healthy
ors an unhealthy product, as the case may be, and its
nature is such that its self-saturation and definiteness of
directive activity have always an actual resultant in terms
of real effects produced. Life with organisation is the
condition of its supply: potential energy of living beings
is the form of the real under which we know it.
It is the property of a certain class of men, that they
cannot keep this agent locked up in the tissues of their
bodies and consequently it plays certain rude tricks upon
them either by inducing disease, where it becomes degraded
into the ordinary expressions of misdirected force within
the limits of the body, or by putting them into the false
position of being obliged to doubt the reality of their
own bodies as factors in the production of strange events
which appear to have an origin external to them.
I have satisfied myself that the conception becomes
5
IP S IT O'lEE IE .
untenable unless the two sides of the body enter as
factors into the construction of the figurate representa¬
tion of this mode of vital activity, or rather this theory of
life which is really th,e marrow of the thought.
The blood is living matter prepared to supply energy
where the physiological call is made upon it, but it is not
necessary for the continuity of our system of thought to
regard the blood as it courses round the circulation, as
other than a source of energy ready to surrender its
potentiality at a moment’s notice. Even though living in
the sense of containing millions of minute organisms, it
is yet not essentially part of the organism through which
it circulates.
It is a working tool of the directive spirit through
which the more purely internal elements are brought into
operation, those built into the constitution and indicative
of the fact of the spiritual individuality of the being who
is never seen in terms of the external, the True Ego,
which not even to the Empirical Ego is directly visible,
that True Ego which is the discrete aspect of the
Subject—of Grod. The maintenance of the integrity of
the body is the maintenance of the integrity of the uni¬
verse which is given to the self through the under¬
standing. Any departure from the usual order of
experience in the one is given correspondingly in the
other : it was therefore from abstract considerations, in
which I offered to myself certain symbolic solutions of
problems of perturbation, that I attacked the problem of
mediumship, &c., saying to myself, “ given certain dis¬
turbances of Nature and Man, what is the theory of the
ordinary that is general enough to include the extra¬
ordinary ? ” The answer I obtained was a mathematical
rendering of the fact that he had two sides to his nervous
system, nnd that just as there were confusions in
consciousness, as to the execution of work, so also were
there confusions in the sub-conscious and automatically
working centres, which, being vertiginous in their nature,
might permit expressions of energy (undirected according
to previous plan of the Executive Ego, from the stand¬
point of the internal) with disturbances in the common
surrounding medium, from the standpoint of the merely
external and objective. Though I have said that the
extra-spacial enters into my conception, I entirely decline
to accept any pseudo-space in which to manipulate my
forces. The extra-spacial is with me the form of
eternity or infinity to which the imaginary forces bear a
very definite reference as mathematicians interpret them
or will interpret them by-and-bye.
I beg to state that such right and left handed traces
as those given to-day, and taken only the other day, are
merely shown as illustrations, and not as the ground of
the above generalisation; for, apart from the general
principle of imaginary forces, it might occur to anyone
to suggest the idea that as in the healthy body the
pulses were generally even from mutual control of the
bilateral nerve centres, so might we expect that when
men where en rapport, with a resultant activity proving
the same, to find like traces with compositions of nervous
activity tending to a unique result, and starting from
that, argue to the necessary neutralisation or saturation
of opposite polarities in every healthy effort, a general¬
isation which would be amply confirmed by clinical
experience.
It is, therefore, simply as the continuation of the case
of rapport I investigated at the Station Hospital,
Guernsey, that I offer the traces with remarks on the
same. I do not know whether the presence of the two
men in the room was necessary to the phenomenon of
knocks; it is likely enough that it was not, but in any
case it is remarkable that Private W , whose ner¬
vous indications were as unstable as any I ever studied,
should so far conform in appearance to the traces of
others as to be practically identical with them, if some
profound and secret influence did not bind the directing
centres in a single plan.
MORE ABOUT THE APPARITION OF THE
LATE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA.
It is believed in Russia that the late Czar
appears every night in the Gasan Cathedral.
One of the watchers there is said to have first
seen him, and to have forthwith reported it
to the senior priest. The latter watched one
night, saw the same apparition, and men¬
tioned it to his Bishop. The Bishop went to
the church in the evening, and waited
several hours before the high altar. Ad¬
joining this is the so-called Emperor’s door,
through which only the Emperor and the
ecclesiastics have access to the altar; and near
the door is a picture of the Virgin, believed
to have miraculous virtues, the tradition
going that it was not made by the hands of
man. It was formerly in Moscow, but when
the French occupied that city it was removed
to St. Petersburg, and afterwards placed in
this church. It is one of the most revered
relics of the Russian Church, and is enclosed
in a gold frame, the jewels, diamonds, rubies,
and emeralds, of which represent a value of
millions (of roubles). After waiting some
hours, the Bishop was convinced that it was
all imagination on the part of the watcher
and the priest, when all at once the Emperor’s
door slowly opened, and the dead Emperor
entered, dressed in full parade uniform, worn
just as when he lay in the coffin. The Bishop
advanced some steps to give him a benediction,
but the Emperor motioned him away with
his hand, and stepping up to the before-
mentioned picture of the Virgin, knelt down
before it, and remained for a long time ab¬
sorbed in prayer; he then left the altar by
the same way which he had come. The
whole story is not only related, but entirely
believed, in the best society. In all social
circles one hears of nothing but this appari¬
tion, and the most extraordinary conclusions
are quite seriously deduced from it. It is
observable that the Cathedral, by order of the
Metropolitan, is closed from six o’clock in the
evening, and no one obtains admission.— The
Court Journal, January 28^, 1882.
THE SPHYGMOGRAPH
TO SUBSCRIBERS AND CONTRIBUTORS.
The supply by post monthly of the present Volume
0/Psyche from March to December inclusive {ten num¬
bers) is 5s. lOe?., to any place within the British and
Foreign Postal Union.
The charge for advertisements, narrow column, is 4g.
per month, for five printed lines or less. Larger adver¬
tisements inserted on moderate terms.
Post Office Orders should be made payable at the
Great Bussell Street Post Office, London. It is unsafe
to mahe remittances by bulky enclosures of postage
stamps in letters.
The return of unsolicited literary communications
cannot be guaranteed; authors should keep copies of
their manuscripts.
All communirations for the Editor should be addressed
to 38, Museum Street, London.
SPHYGMOGRAPHY.
No. I.
Now that Dr. Purdon’s experiments indi¬
cate that the sphygmograph bids fair to
become a potent instrument in psychological
research, some general information about the
apparatus itself, and its method of use, may
not he out of place.
Dr. Etienne Jules Marey, of Paris, whose
name is inseparably connected with the early
history of the sphygmograph, describes his
form of the instrument in his book La Cir¬
culation du Sang, published in Paris in 1863.
He used a simple and very light lever of
wood and aluminium, F, Fig. 1, fixing a
pen, N, at the end of the lever and at right
angles thereto, in such a manner that the
point of the pen was always in contact with
the paper, despite the arc described by the
point of the lever. A light steel spring, A,
carrying an ivory button, B, pressed upon the
artery, D, D, and by means of its point,
communicated the pulsations of the artery to
the lever, F. The rise and fall of the pen, N,
recorded the vibrations on the slip of paper,
H, as the paper was driven by clockwork in
the direction indicated by the arrow K.
Marey’s sphygmograph recorded so many
more details than its predecessors, that it
quickly arrested the attention of the medical •
world, and was first introduced to the English
public by Dr. F. E. Anstie, at a meeting of
the Medical Society of London, held Novem¬
ber 20th, 1865, and has been occasionally used
in scientific research until a somewhat recent
date. Jt has not only been applied to the
human subject, but Marey at the outset re¬
corded with it the heart-beats of dogs, cats,
tortoises, frogs, birds, and fish.
Since the invention of Marey’s instrument
sphygmographs of all kinds and descriptions
have been invented in England and on the
Continent, but Marey’s in nearly its original
form held its own against all new-comers,
until the beginning of 1880. In England
the instrument had been made more sensitive
by substituting a light needle for a pen, and
smoked paper as the recording surface. A
method of regulating the pressure of the
spring on the artery tended to increase the
scientific precision of the piece of apparatus.
In 1880, Dr. R. E. Dudgeon invented a
Sphygmograph, in which several of the good
points of its predecessors were retained and
bad ones abolished. Marey’s sphygmograph
stretched along the arm, and was troublesome
to fix in position; Pond’s modification of it
rose high in air; Dr. Dudgeon succeeded in
comprising the whole instrument in a space
less than three inches square, and in so doing
he strengthened it, since the various parts of
his more compact form of sphygmograph tend
to support each other. One view of a Dud¬
geon’s sphygmograph purchased by Dr. Purdon
from Messrs. Salt and Sons, 21, Bull Street,
Birmingham, is given in our large engraving
on page 6, and another view of it in the
accompanying cut, Fig. 2. At one end of
the instrument is the little box containing
the clockwork for driving the little rollers
which pass the strip of smoked paper (in¬
dicated by dotted lines) under the needle; the
needle itself is represented in its position of
rest, before it is thrown forward upon the
paper it has to mark. The ivory button for
regulating the pressure of the spring Upon
the artery is graduated to indicate pressure
up to five ounces of troy; about 3i ounces is
the best pressure to use.
Dr. Dudgeon gives the following instruc¬
tions for the use of the instrument ;
8
DP S IT OK DE .
#1
The advantages of this instrument are:
1. It magnifies the movements of the artery in a uni¬
form degree, viz. 50 times.
2. The pressure of the spring can be regulated from 1
to 5 ounces (30 to 150 grammes).
3. It requires no wrist-rest, and may be used with
equal facility whether the patient is standing, sitting or
lying.
4. With it a tracing of the pulse can be made almost
as quickly as the pulse can be felt with the finger.
5. Its sensitiveness is so great that it records the
slightest deviation in form or character of every beat.
6. Its construction is so simple that if accidentally
broken any watchmaker can repair it.
7. It is so small (2J by 2 inches) and it is so light
(4 oz.) that it can easily be carried in the pocket.
8. It is only one third of the price of the cumbrous
instruments hitherto offered to the profession.
Directions for Use.
1. Wind up the clockwork used to drive the smoked
paper along by means of the milled button at the back
of the clockwork box.
2. Insert one end of the smoked paper (smoked side
uppermost), on the right-hand side of the instrument,
between the roller and small wheels.
3. Make the patient hold out either hand open and in
an easy position, the fingers pointing towards you, and
direct him not to move the wrist or fingers.
4. Ascertain the precise spot where the radial artery
beats at the wrist, close behind the eminence of the os
trapezium.
5. Slip the band, the free end of which has been
drawn through the clamp, over the patient’s hand.
6. Apply pressure to the spring by turning the spring-
regulator so that the number of ounces, or portions of
ounces, you wish, is pointed to by the indicator. The
pressure may be altered at will when the instrument is
fixed on the arm.
7. Place the bulging button of the spring exactly over
the artery, its long axis parallel to the course of the
artery, the box containing the clock-work resting lightly
on the forearm above.
8. Retaining the instrument in its place with the left
hand, draw the band through the clamp with the thumb
and fore-finger of the right hand, holding back the clamp
with the other fingers of that hand ; when the requisite
tightness has been obtained, which will be known by the
point of the needle working freely over the centre of the
smoked paper, screw up the clamp with the left hand, so
as to fix the instrument.
9. Set the smoked paper in motion by pushing to¬
wards the right the small handle on the top of the clock¬
work box.
10. Let the paper run through, and do not touch the
instrument or the patient, unless to support hishand in
your own to secure perfect steadiness.
11. Catch the paper as it passes out of the instrument
in your left hand.
12. Stop the clockwork as soon as the paper has
passed.
Bemarles.—The clockwork is regulated so that the
smoked paper shall pass through in ten seconds. Six
times the number of pulsations traced on the paper will
give us the number per minute. The clockwork will
not pass more than three lengths of paper at the same
rate. It is best to wind it up anew after two lengths
have passed.
For ordinary purposes the instrument may be used
without fixing the band in the clamp, both ends of the
band being merely held with sufficient tightness at the
back of the patient’s wrist by the fingers of the operator’s
right hand. A very little practice will enable the
operator to hold the instrument thus as steadily as the
clamp can do it, and time is thereby saved.
(To he continued.)
 1 i 
“ ELEMENTALS ” AND PERSONALITY.
BY THE HONBLE. RODEN NOEL.
I may ask any one of yonr readers who
reads the hook you have just published for me,
to take note of the difference between my
view concerning the external world as there
propounded, and the view propounded by
Madame Blavatsky, Colonel Olcott, and other
theosophists, I believe in your columns, as
well as elsewhere, that the forces of nature
are blind (therefore unintelligent ?) intelli¬
gences of some kind, “ Elementals.” To this
view I think it was Mr. D. FitzGerald who
pertinently objected by asking to how many
foot pounds one of such entities might be
equivalent ? It appears to me a crude notion
to take forces of nature just as we perceive them,
as really existing out there all by themselves,
and then call such forces a kind of blind un¬
conscious intelligence; and what could such a
contradiction be like ? Because these forces
have necessarily undergone what Kant calls
a categorising process in being submitted to
the actual constitution of our perceiving and
conceiving faculty as forces of nature, they
are sensations and ideas of ours; but I admit
that they represent an unknown x acting
upon us from outside. And that unknown
IP S *Y" C H IE3. 9
%, as I have argued in my book, is in all
probability intelligent; but intelligence can¬
not be conceived to exist out of a focus of
intelligence, out of some sort of conscious
self-identifying unity of experience, which is
what I mean by a person. But the unit of
personality it is impossible for us who are
organic to gauge in the inorganic ; of what
kind the intelligence in the elements may be
we cannot for certain say. All force, how¬
ever, all energy, is necessarily spiritual, has
the nature of will, and idea or sensation. If
forces were what theosophy contends, they
would all be at cross purposes, instead of
being merely modes of one ever-changing
phenomenon with an established order.
Whatever the agents be, “ there is a Provi¬
dence who shapes” their “ends, rough hew
them how ” they “ will ’’—fin inner harmony
and necessity through all.
Another point I would advert to is the
teaching of James Hinton, to whom I have
expressed my very great obligation, and who
seems to me one of the most pregnant teachers
of the day. But while expressing difference
from him on certain points, I would here
signalize one very essential point on which
his teaching appears to me erroneous—that of
personality. There are passages in the book
of posthumous philosophy lately published
(infinitely suggestive as that noble book is in
other respects) with which I cannot at all
agree. The strictures on his idea of the
highest Being as impersonal Love, in the last
number of The Spectator, were to my mind
perfectly justified. Personality is the cardinal
basis of philosophy with me. Impersonal Love
can be only, as I believe, an abstraction, a
conception of some concrete personal lovers
and thinkers—needs them to support it, and
cannot support them. Being is another ab¬
stract conception of the same sort. There is,
and can be nothing beyond the one and self-
identifying experience of a person, or spirit,
and of many such. Love must have a ter¬
minus a quo and a terminus ad quern- What
is u love ’’ floating about all diffused, with no
one loving, and no one beloved ? And what
is “ being,” with no other more concrete
characteristics ? Merely a plaything of some
personal imagination, though spoken of by
abstruse writers as something very awful,
ultimate, and mysterious. But you may en¬
large your personality as much as you like,
extend the scope and sweep of it. The
Supreme Divine Person has knowledge of and
sympathy with all, identifies Himself with
all, nay, imparts of His own life to the eternal
true selves of all, for ‘‘in Him we live, move,
and have our being.’’ He ever suppresses
Himself to constitute the creature. There¬
fore is He infinite and finite, limited and un¬
limited. The one indeed cannot be without
the other, the one is in and by the other.
Without this no consciousness, love, will,
self-sacrifice. We are as necessary to G-od, as
God is to us. Hence the truth of the doctrine
of the Trinity.
We are not yet personal enough; we must be¬
come more, not less so, as we rise in the scale
of being. Nature shows integration, ever-
increasing, with differentiation, till
we arrive at man; and the highest men, while
universal in their self-identification with
others, even with the creatures below them,
have a correspondingly greater, not less centre,
or unit of personality, wherein this self-differ¬
entiation and self-integration occur—it could
not occur at all without this.
God is most personal of all, and therefore
most loving and wise. It is imperfect person¬
ality, that is self-centred and selfish. But
the true person is free of all other person¬
alities—is one with them—yet obliterate the
personalities, and what have you left ?
Who is one with who, or what ?
Consider that self-sacrifice without a self to
sacrifice were a contradiction. But if it be
said that self may be sacrificed and done with,
I ask, how then is continuous self-sacrifice
possible ? True it is, that in active love,
the sacrifice becomes transfigured, and the
self is not distinctly present to consciousness as
self: there is little self-consciousness, but,
still implicitly, if not explicitly, the dis¬
tinctively individual centre of conscious ex¬
perience must be there; else there could be no
realisation of objects to be loved and helped,
because no discrimination of them as endowed
with their own specific character. For this
must be done in one focus of self-identifying
experience. Love fosters what is the special
function of each in the world economy.
Abstruse writers indeed, Orientals and others,
would get rid of all distinction, and be
merged in one blank sea of nothing. But it
is for these persons to tell us how a rich
varied consciousness emerged from the bosom
io
IFSITOIHCIE .
^l^ii^!Isli«KisM'i3^isi
of Nothing, and how it is going to manage to
return thither, even granting them the sub¬
limity, and desirability of such a consumma¬
tion as the final outcome and result of all man’s
efforts and perplexities. Contemplating the
navel and saying “ Om,” may lead the pious
some way on the road to perfect idiotcy, and
that coveted blankness in experience; but how
to get all the way ! Yet, if you do not want to
go so far as nothing, then you must revert to
your voYL$Q>\Qix\& personalities. However deep¬
ened, and widened in scope, we are in and
by one another—in all and by all.
SPHYGMOGrRAMS taken during the
OCCURRENCE OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA.
BT JOHN E. PURDON, M.B., SURGEON-MAJOR, ARMY MEDICAL
DEPARTMENT.
In offering some pulse tracings taken in
connection with my last described research,
I must remark that no very special selection
has been made. I could have produced some
more easily perceived resemblances had I
them with me in town, hut as it is I must be
content to offer such as I have. I described in a
recent number of The Spiritualist, the occur¬
rence of knockings in the prisoners’ ward in
the hospital under my charge, where two
men were confined, one of them at least, if
not ^ both, possessing the mediumistic or
dyssynergic diathesis. I gave a brief ac¬
count of the knockings which careful watch¬
ing under test conditions proved to be real,
materialj external facts, and I now offer for
inspection a few of the pulse tracings taken
from the wrists of those in the room during
the occurrence of the puzzling phenomenon.
The tracings are some of those taken upon
the night of the 10th January last, a week
from the time that the existence of knocks
and apparitions was reported to me. If I
had my own choice I should not publish such
a fragmentary account of the investigation,
hut as my space and time are both limited
from my being under orders for foreign
service, 1 am obliged to give a mere forecast
of what in better hands may yield a rich
harvest for psychology, since the resemblance
of the tracings in those taking part in certain
expressions of energy is advanced as in¬
dicative of either a direct attraction, through
which a certain physical result is actively
produced, or of a passive condition through
which certain influencing vibrations are per¬
mitted to act upon a nervous system, after
having been projected by another, or of a
complex state in which both these conditions
obtain.
It will be perceived that on the night of
the 10th January, 1882, the right (Figs. 1
and 2) and left (Figs. 3 and 4) sides,* show
different tracings in each man’s case, whereas
the right hand trace of Private W 
(Fig. 1) corresponds to, and is as nearly as
possible similar to that of the right hand
trace of Private L (Fig. 2), the same
holding in the case of the two left hand
traces (Figs. 3 and 4), also. All through the
evening the knocks were heard in the room,
some of them while the traces were running
Fig. 4.
through the sphygmograph. We found that
a concentrated attention was less likely to be
accompanied or followed by knocks than a
lively conversation. At the end of my work,
before leaving the men for the night, I took
my own trace with that of Private W ,
and I noted the establishment of a resem¬
blance between us, Private W , who
was the sensitive, yielding to the influence
of my dynamism, which probably had a
meaning in the next night’s performance,
when the knocks were very marked. I had
given him my hand to press against his fore¬
head, while sitting on his bed, with the view
of ascertaining if he could perceive the mental
picture which I was presenting to my mind’s
eye, at which he made a very bad shot indeed.
* The set of tracings of Privates W and L , which
I give, were all taken at a pressure of oz. troy.
11
IP S "Y- G ZEE IE
I had seen curious results obtained by “ wil¬
ling,” and I had used the sphygmograph
profitably after such experiments, so I was in
hopes that I might in the first place obtain
some positive result as to the man’s clairvoy¬
ance, and in the second find some vital
similarity between him and myself.
On the night of the 11th of January, the
knocking was more pronounced than before,
and I found on examination that we were all
three showing tracings very much alike. As
was to be expected, however, Private W 
and Private L were more alike than
I to either of them, for I do not consider
myself much of a factor in knock-making.
On the night of the 11th, Private L -’s
pulse was fuller than usual and therefore the
more reliable in its indication. Some of the
left pulse beats, which were variable, were
very like those of Private W , while
on the right side, the resemblance was even
more marked. My own pulse tracings, taken
right and left after I had been sitting on
Private W ’s bed, tracing him, showed
a departure from its usual type, and more or
less resembled those of the men I was ex¬
amining. Later on in the evening I took
Private W   and myself again, and
found that the tracings were identical, except
that Private W ’s impulse-blow was
more pronounced than mine, a fact that did
not interfere with the important part of the
pattern, i.e., the wavelets of the primary
wave.
As a rule, the wavelets of the primary
wave are not accurately described in books ;
their causation is not understood, but I am
very much inclined to believe that they de¬
monstrate the existence of a conjugate as¬
sociation of the centres of vaso-motion and
nutrition in the medulla oblongata, some¬
what similar to that which holds in the as¬
sociation of the centres which govern the
complex and conjoint motions of the eye¬
balls, but with more purely physical links
through higher ganglia interposed.
I do not put this paper forward in the
hope that I shall convince anyone that I am
right in my view of the physiological value
of the resemblances I have observed in
nervous subjects; I simply offer for consider¬
ation a fruitful subject of study which no
cl 'priori negation or appeal to the existence
of constitutional relationship and coincidence
can dispose of. It is the very fact of the co¬
incidence that is of value. I know that
traces frequently resemble each other, but I
know that they cannot be made to do so
either by bungling or by intention, and that
therefore in all probability these fugitive
phenomena indicate something very im¬
portant.
The following sets of tracings will serve
to show the caution required in drawing any
conclusion as to the existence or otherwise of
physical rapport. They were taken in the
case of two gentlemen, one of whom was
anxious that I should show him my way of
working the sphygmograph with the view to
further research, should opportunities of
making useful experiments occur. It will
be seen that four tracings were taken from
him, Figs. 5 and 6 in the first instance, one
right and left, then tracings 7 and 8. I poin-,
ted out that the great likeness of the separate
Fig. 8.
pairs of the same hand, while the two sides of
the body showed a marked difference, was to
me proof positive that the true trace was ob¬
tained from each side, and that this fact of a
real difference pointed to a condition of nerve
strain, such as a sensitive nervous system
might physically display. These tracings
being all taken with the same pressure on
the artery, 3^oz., troy weight, in every in¬
stance, are all the more valuable as serving
to eliminate the weight of the possible sug¬
gestion that the tracings were fudged so as
to force a resemblance where none existed.
It will be thus seen that this set of traces is a
12
ipsyc h: :e _
casual one, and not some specially selected
from a large number with the view of
favouring the argument.
Now, considering the fact that before the
tracings 6 and 10 were taken, one of the gentle¬
men in question had been engaged for a con¬
siderable time endeavouring to fix the sphyg-
mograph upon the wrist of the other, under
my direction, for the purpose of taking his
trace, by way of exercise, and that during
that operation his hand was constantly in
contact with that of the other, it is of im¬
portance to be able to state that there is
evidence to show that the first, whom we will
call Mr. A., was more or less compelled to
adapt his pulse-governing centres to those of
the second, whom we will call Mr. B., since
the new trace shown by Mr. A. could not be
identified as similar to those taken from
either the left or right hand on the previous
occasion immediately before.
When Mr. A. failed to fix the instrument
to my satisfaction on Mr. B.’s wrist, I adjusted
it, taking the trace No. 9 and others not
shown, after which the instrument was fixed
Fig. 10.
upon Mr. A.’s wrist, and the trace marked
No. 10, with another not shown obtained.
Though I do not claim to prove anything un¬
questionably from a single observation, or to
show that the nervous determinations of the
first gentleman were forced to correspond to
those of the second, yet even in this simple
case I attach value to my own skill in the
use of the instrument, and to the fact brought
to my notice directly, that on recent occasions
Mr. B., while in conversation with Mr. A.,
picked out for use words which the latter
gentleman declared were in his thoughts a
short time before he spoke, and that he, Mr. A.,
had suffered from vertiginous confusion more
than once when in the presence of the former.
Such facts coupled with the numerous cases
of the establishment of the physical evidence
of rapport which have come under my direct
observation, I myself having conducted the
experiments in all their details, indicate that
it is high time to attend to the import of these
resemblances. The subject is now a pretty
familiar one with me, but I wish to invite
the reader who cares for such studies to go
into the matter for himself, not crediting me
with anything more than a hint as to the
method to be followed. Multiplied experi¬
ments, after the acquirement of the prelim¬
inary dexterity, can alone give to this dis¬
covery the weight of a legitimate induction,
which indeed with me was a deduction from
theory rapidly succeeding, if not supplement¬
ing, the induction from a necessarily limited
experience.
One word in conclusion : the important
part of the trace for the establishment of a
resemblance is the primary wave, the two
wavelets of which, always present in a normal
pulse, though difficult to recognise during
many circulatory modifications, give the
variability of feature to the pulse upon
which its character depends. The reason of
this is evident; it is that part of the trace
which indicates the presence of muscular
action upon the blood vessels of the part
studied, so that wherever the sign of muscular
action is seen, the presence of a directing
psychical agent is to be inferred. The latter
part of the curve does not necessarily re¬
semble the corresponding part in & rapport
trace, for the mechanical causation of that
part of the line is due in general to the
elasticity of the aorta, and to the proper
motions of the left ventricle of the heart.
“ The New Church Magazine ” for last month contains a talented essay by
Mr. G. C. Ottley, on the doctrine of redemption from a Swedenborgian point of
view. The same journal gives an obituary notice of the late Mrs. Hook, of
Snodland, Kent.
Mrs. Edwin Ellis, the wife of the well-known marine and landscape painter,
is shortly to make her debut on the stage, which she intends following as a pro¬
fession. Mrs. Ellis, who is also an authoress of considerable ability, has been
studying for some time under Mr. George Neville.
A newly formed “ Society for Psychical Research,” under the presidency of
Professor Henry Sidgwick, is a partial step in the right direction. The society
would be much stronger did its directorate include such able men as Dr. John
Purdon, Mr. J. A. Campbell (who is now in London), Mr. Roden Noel, and
Mr. Frank Podmore.
Dr. Purdon, before he was satisfied of the identity of rapport between him.
self and his first patient, took upwards of 500 sphygmograms, and in the
investigation of the subject has taken about 2000 altogether. Comparative
sphygmography is an art in itself, and only an experienced eye can recognise
the full value of the indications. Dr. Purdon has lately been at the Horse
Guards, Aldershot and Canterbury, illustrating a system of rough-riding and
recruit-training which he has devised for the benefit of the cavalry soldier.
The presence of three or four men publicly noted for long public hostility, to
a scientific section of the psychical press, and the absence of the names of
various first-rate investigators of the subject who oppose their hostility, is a
marked feature of the directorate of the new Society for Psychical Research.
If all the nominal managers attended the legislatory meetings the point here
raised would be of minor importance, but a quorum of six or seven is a liberal
estimate of the average attendance at the gatherings of such bodies, so that the
most active men in managing the public affairs of Spiritualism since the great
secessions some three years ago, are the same knot of persons who now seem
to have the new Psychological Society in their hands. If the Society had
started from a position of neutrality, it would have been a useful, peacemaking,
and desirable organisation.
:p s it o ih: IE .
PSYCHIC FACTS.
The Best Book to place in Public Libraries and in the
hands of Disbelievers in Spiritualism.
CONTENTS.
Elementary Information for Inquirers into Spirit,
ualism. By the Editor.
Elementary Psychical Phenomena Experimentally
Tested. By BobertHare, M.D., Professor of Chemistry
at the University of Pennsylvania.
Experiments in Psychical Phenomena. By William
Crookes, P.B.S.
Phenomena I have seen. By Cromwell Pleetwood
Yarley, F.B.S., C.E.
Beport on Spiritualism. By a Committee of the Dia.
lectical Society of London.
Psyehography. By Edward W. Cox, Serjeant-at-Law.
Extraordinary Psychical Phenomena in Germany.
By Frederick Zollner, Professor of FhysicalAstronomy
at the University of Leipsic,
Captain B. F. Burton’s Experiences.
Experiences at a Seance. By Alfred Bussell Wal¬
lace.
Beichenbach’s Magnetic Flames and other Pheno.
mena. By The Lord Linsay.
Powerful Physical Manifestations. By Dr. A. But-
lerof. Professor of Chemistry in the University of St.
Petersburg.
Testimony of “The Times” Newspaper.
Testimony of “ The Daily Telegraph.”
Slate-Writing Experiments. By Epes Sargent.
Spiritualism and Insanity. By Eugene Crowell,
M.D.
Linguistic Phenomena. By J. W. Edmonds, Judge
of the Supreme Court, New York.
A Severe Surgical Operation under Mesmeric Influ.
ence. By Colonel Sir William Topham.
Signor Damiani’s Challenge.
Manifestations witnessed by the Emperor of Ger.
many.
Manifestations witnessed by the Emperor of Bussia.
Pstchb Office, 38, Museum Street, London.
Price 4s., or 4s. 4d. post free
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS,
Bv James Mace,
contents.
CHAP. 1.—Introductory—^Autobiographical Sketch.
CHAP. II.—The Orgamc Qualifications of a Healer.
CHAP. III.—Medical Theories and the True Heal¬
ing Principle.
CHAP. IV.—On Healers, Ancient and Modem.
CHAP. V.—The Author’s Method of Work, with
Illustrative Cases.
CHAP. VI.—Animal Magnetism as a Curative
Agent.
CHAP. VII.—On Healing at a Distance.
APPENDICES,
A. —Healing in Public.
B. —Press Notices.
C. —Testimonials from Patients.
Psyche Office, 38, Museum Street, Bloomsbury,
London.
TO ENQUIBEBS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-
considered masses of evidence that Spiritualism
is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price 4d., 4£d.
post free. It is a number compiled specially for the
information of enquirers, and will give them a very
large amount of information at a cheap rate. This
number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale
at the doors at public meetings connected with Spirit¬
ualism.
Psyche Office, 38, Museum Street, London.
Price 2d., or 2£d. post free.
nPHE FOUNDING OF THE
JL BRITISH ASSOCIATION for the Advancement
of Science. A history of the first meeting in York
in 1831, and of other matters of interest connected
therewith. By William H. Harrison, author of “ The
Lazy Lays,” “ Mother Shipton Investigated,” and
other works. Psyche Office, 38, Museum Street,
London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATUEE
AND VABIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
Psyche Office, 38, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Id.; Post free for lid; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Postfvee
“KIFTS IN THE YEIL.”
A CollectiDj. of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who :
are unacquainted wdth Spiritualism. It contains much ;
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given ,
through the writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in eonnection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“0! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Bichmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan .Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg,
XII. —Besurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Bainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke. .
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” BytheBev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXTV.—The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern \
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. |
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara- i
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily j
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Belation of Spiritualism to Orthodox :
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of j
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Bev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat. i
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes I
Sargent. i
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the i
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXTV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium- 1
ship of‘‘M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison, j
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington j
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to \
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the |
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic \
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri- 1
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By '
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in ,
Belation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall '
Gregory. •
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Bussel Wallace, !
F.B.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 3?,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allen Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every Month. Price 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Bue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
Crown 8vo. Cloth. Bed Edges. Price 5s.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
BY M.A. (OXON.)
Contains records of spiritual manifestations, tending
to prove that some of the spirits who communicate
through mediums, are the persons they say they are.
The book contains information :—
On the power of Spirits to gain access to sources of
information.
On some phases of Mediumship bearing on Spirit.
Identity,
Cases of Spirit-Identity.
1. Man crushed by a steam-roller.
2. Abraham Florentine.
3. Charlotte Buekworth.
Evidence from spirit photography.
On some difficulties of inquirers into Spiritualism.
Spirit-Identity—Evidence of Dr. Stanhope Speer.
Psyche Office,
38, Museum Street, London, W.C.
rPHE first volume, (bound) is :
_L runout; and as many purchased copies,
ANGELIC BEV EL ATI0NS.
now
those
who wish to have the 2nd and 3rd vols. can have them
by sending 3/6 in stamps for a copy of Philosophy of
Spirits', which will be forwarded wiihthe other two
volumes gratis. Application to William Oxley,
65, Bury New Road, Higher Broughton, Manchester.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—Vli.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Beconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Besurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX
Farewell to Earth. Psyche Office, 38, Museum
Street, London, W.C.
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIBITUALISTS, 38, Great Bussell
Street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. The largest and
most influential membership of any spiritualist
organisation. The Beading Boom and Library open
daily from 2 to 9 p.m., Saturdays 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.
The Secretary, or his assistant, receive visitors and
answer inquiries. Further particulars on application.
—Thomas Blyton, Besident Secretary.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Small 4to. pp. 375. Illustrated. Price 12s. 6d.
rrHE PERFECT WAY; or, The
JL Finding of Christ: a course of lectures setting
forth in its purityjand fulness the ancient doctrine of
the constitution of Existence and the nature of
Religion, and supplying a system of thought and rule
of life adapted to all the needs and aspirations of man.
kind. Derived from original sources ; and differing
entirely in method and scope from any work hitherto
published. London : Field and Tuer ; Hamilton,
Adams and Co. New York : Scribner and Welford.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
Ry WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
precisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
IV
IP S ~Y" O ZEE IE .
inaHaiaiiflifMiiHu
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth
Thousand.*;;^
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth-Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Teubnbe and Co., London. Man*
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
Psyche Office, 38, Museum-street, London, W.C.
CHINA, G-LASS AND EARTHENWARE.
Co-operative Stores and all other Stores fully equalled, if not superseded, for China, Glass, (
and Earthenware. Quality and quantity unrivalled for the smallest margin of profit, on ;
the prepayment system.
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street, Bryanston-square, London, W.C.
VEGLIO & Co.’s BEST AUR ANT,
314 and 316, EtTSTON ROAD, LONDON,
Near Tottenham Court Road, and the Qower Street, Portland Road $ Euston Railway Stations
One of the best Restaurants in the Neighbourhood, with pure Foreign Wines at very
moderate prices. English, French, German and Italian spoken.
English, French and Foreign Cookery. A good Billiard Room.
JUST PUBLISHED.—QUITE NEW.
MOTHER SHIPTON INVESTIGATED.:
This neat little Booklet about
THE CELEBEATED YORKSHIRE SIBYL
Contains the results of a critical examination of the Mother Shipton Literature in the ,
British Museum Library. It includes a verbatim copy of the oldest record in the Museum ,
about Mother Shipton’s prophecies, and gives reasons for supposing that
MR. PUNCH OF FLEET STREET
Is a survival of the Yorkshire prophetess.
Illustrated with Two Engravings, one representing Mother Sbipton warning
Cardinal Wolsey at Cawood ; the other showing the resemblance between Mother Shipton
and Punch.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Psyche Office, 38, Museum Street, London, W.C.
THE T H E 0 S 0 PH IS T, If
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL
PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY, LITERATURE AND ART.,A)^
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY. p£
PUBLISHED AT 108, G1RGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of ( The Theosophist,
at the above address.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism s produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It*
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said, spirits are the persons ^
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity f A • *
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.i&S'Sji
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.g|-
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
Psyche Office, 38, Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. H. J. HERBST
Having returned to London resumes his mesmeric
practice. Apply by letter only. 61, Lamb’s Conduit
Street, Theobald’s Road, W.C.
SPIRITUALISTIC SOCIETIES.
SUNDAY EVENING MEETINGS IN LONDON ABE
HELD AT—
The Ladbroke Hall, Netting Hill, W. (Hon. Sec,,
Mr. W. Harling).
The Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec Street, Marylebone.
(Hon. Sec., Mr. J. M. Dale).
The Goswell Hall, 290, Goswell Hoad. (Hon. Sec.,
Mr. W. Towns).
The Hackney Spiritualists’ Christian Mission, Meet¬
ings for Spiritualists only. (Hon. Sec., Mr. 0. R.
Williams).
PROVINCIAL SOCIETIES. SECRETARY S NAMES
AND RESIDENCES—
Ashington. Mr. W. Winlow, Ashington Colliery,
N orthumber land.
Birmingham. Mr. R. Groom, 200, St. Vincent, Lady-
wood.
Cardiff. Mr.E. Adams, 3, Angel Street.
Coventry. Mr. H. Spittle, 69, Far Gosford Street.’
Darlington. Mr. A. O. Clark, President. Hodge’s
Rooms, Northgate, Darlington.
Felling. Mr. A. Pickering, High Street.
Gateshead. Mr. J. M. Routledge, 10, Devonshire
Street,
Glasgow. Mr, J, McG. Munro, 33, Daisy Street,
Govanhill.
Howden-le-Wear. C. G. Oyston, Hunwick, Willing-
ton, Durham.
Hull. J. L. Bland, 22, Erospect Street.
Leicester. Mr. R. Wightman, 56, Cranboume Street.
Liverpool. Mr, John Ainsworth, 21, Longfellow Street,
Lodge Lane.
Macclesfield. Mr. S. Hayes, 12, Bond Street West.
Manchester. W. T. Braham, 392, Stretford Road.
Manchester and Salford. Mr. J. Campion, 33 Down-
, ing Street.
Newcastle. Mr. W. O. Robson, 8, Brandling Place.
Nottingham. Mr. Yates, 39, Lower Talbot Street.
North Seaton. Mr. Wm, Scott, Stable Row, North
Seaton Colliery.
North Durham. W. Latimer, Hurt’s Terrace, Spring-
well, Gateshead.
Oldham. Mr. James Murray, 7, Eden Street,
Frankhill,
Plymouth. Rev. C. Ware, 12, Stanley Terrace, Albert
Road.
Scotland Gate, near Morpeth, Mr. G. Hall, Chop-
pington Colliery.
South Durham. Mr. James Dunn, 8, Co-operative
Street, Old Shildon.
Walsall. Mr. J, Tibbits, Junction Street.
West Pelton. Mr. Geo. Carr, West Pelton, via Chester.
le-Street, Co. Durham,
Now Ready. Demy 8vo. Price 2d., by Post 2$d.
IS SPIRITUALISM LAWFUL &
RIGHT ?
A reply to Rev. Dr. Hawley’s “ Oscillations of
Human Opinion.”
By S. B. BRIXTAN, M.D.
London: E. W. Allen, 4, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.,
and all Booksellers.
Spiritualists, help on the good work done at the
late Church Congress by distributing this pamphlet
amongst your Orthodox Friends.
KESEARCHES IN THE PHENO¬
MENA OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. Psyche Office, 38, Museum-street,
London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Psyche......   i  1
The Hon. Roden Noel     1
The Psycho-Physical Basis of Life and Miracle.
By John E. Purdon, M.B    3
More about the Apparition of the late Emperor of
Russia       5
Sphygmography         7
“ Elementals ” and Personality. By the Hon.
Roden Noel     8
Spbygmograms Taken during the Occurrence of
Psychical Phenomena. By John E. Purdon,
M.B     10
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
The record, is dated December 17th, 1881,
and in it Dr. Vazeille sets forth that his neigh¬
bour and friend, Mr.. Trosetlle, chemist, of
Issy, a fervent Spiritualist, had long desired
to be a witness of the phenomena of physical
mediumship, which he knew only upon the
testimony of others, and had never witnessed
himself. Dr. Vazeiile also ardently wished to
ascertain from personal experience the verity
of the facts recorded in the literature of Spirit¬
ualism. After having been present at one of
the seances of the medium Mr. Husk, at the Paris,
Psychological Society, where he heard several
persons say that the results could not be pro¬
duced except by trickery, they resolved to get
the- medium to give a seance on their own
premises, if possible. He consented, and on
the evening of December 4th last, Wq stance
was held at Dr. Yazeille’s house, in his con¬
sulting room. Dr. Yazeille says that he
carried out with Mr. Troseille all the precau-
sions usual in such cases. It was absolutely
impossible that anyone could get into the room
from outside. In the middle of the room was
a dinner table of three sections. On this
table were placed a mouth organ, a large
musical box, and a violin bow ; the violin
itself was suspended from the ceiling by a
very strong cord. On the chimney, behind
the seat occupied by the medium, and about
one yard from him, they placed two toys, a
little trumpet and a little piano with six keys;
these objects did not belong to the medium,
nor did he know beforehand that they wore to
be bought for the occasion. Dr. Yazeille had
never heard that at previous seances Mr.
Husk had had instruments resembling them.
By the side of the others the medium placed
his own which everyone had seen at the Paris
Psychological Society, - namely, a little harp
(Oxford chimes?) with eight or ten cords,
a musical box from Geneva, a bell, a paper
speaking tube, a mouth organ, a bunch of
bells, such as are suspended to the necks of
very young children, and lastly a phos¬
phorescent card, the luminous face of which
was placed against the table to make the dark¬
ness more complete.
Then, all the persons who were to be at the
seance having been introduced, the two doors
were shut and locked, and the keys placed in the
depths of one of Dr. Yazeille’s pockets. The
circle consisted of twelve persons including the
medium and his interpreter. All of them were
seated on chairs, except the medium, who was
on a fauteuil of very great weight. Monsieur
Trcsellle sat on the right of the medium and
q Dr. Yazeille on the left, in such a way that
((! the latter held in his right hand the left hand
I of the medium. Dr. Yazeille’s mother was to
'| his left. The circle having been formed and
. all the sitters comfortably placed, they extin-
(j guisbed the two candles which were at the two
I extremities of the table.
II After three or four minutes, during which
j# DA Yazeille asked those present to have
;j patience, and not to expect anything for an
hour, a voice was heard. It was that, says Dr.
Yazeille, of L’Irresistible, who wished the
listeners good evening, and said that he reeol-
p; lected the doctor. Almost at the same instant
| the bell was vigorously agitated. One of the
(j sitters having asked the spirit to prove his
presence by a tangible fact, instantly had the
two candles placed in his hands ; these candles
4 as already stated had been placed at the two
I extremities of the table.
In a short time a hand was placed on Dr.
Yazeille’s head, the chair on which sat Mr.
Troseille was vigorously brought nearer to the
i medium, and then began almost without inter-
| ruption, the series of fantastic and extraordinary
1 facts which have been testified to by all who
<| have had seances with Mr. Husk. The air
q t(Au Clair de la Lune ” was tapped on the
q mouth organ, the fiddlestick was grated very
)[. disagreeably over the violin suspended to the
4 coiling, . and the voice declared that it did
d not like the instrument. The little musical
<| . box was whirled before the faces of the sitters,
4 and in a rapid and capricious way round tho
room. The harp in its turn executed around
q and over their heads a curious flight, and it
p was accompanied by two points of phosphores-
H cent light; the strings were twanged by
-<IA vigorous but invisible fingers. During this
time or some moments after, the same hands
)| carried the large box, which played all its
A tunes in rotation. The toys placed on the
gggj chimney were carried over the heads of the
(| sitters without hesitation, and placed on the
I table. During all this time the voice made
4 itself heard, but nearly always in the direction
I of the medium,, enough, says Dr. Yazeille, to
make one think it was produced by his organs
p| of speech. He questioned L’Irresistible on
p this point, and he replied that the vocal organs
I[ . of the medium were not used.
After that of L’Irresistible the deep voice of
I John King said through the speaking tube,
Iq u Good day, gentlemen.’’ He then said that
[ he had no power to materialise that evening,
I and he went away after saying to each of the
j v sitters, u Bon soiry M. le Dodeur; Bon stir, Mme*
la mire du Docteur; Bon soir, Monsieur; Bon soir,
Madame; etc., que Dieu vows benisse. Bonne 11
nuilP ■ \ '
Throughout the seance, hands, sometimos $
large, sometimes small, were pattiog Dr. i
Yazeille on his head, face, shoulders and hands; j|
they rapped loudly on the back of his chair,
on the walls, on the floor; they shook and j<
rattled the bronze chains of the candelabra on K
the chimney piece. Mons. Troseille, on the §j
opposite side of the medium had at the same
time the same manifestations. |
Dr. Yazeille goes on to say that a feeble voice
coming from near the table close to the hands
of his mother, claimed to be that of Fendlon,
and said without a trace of English accent,
“Ouij je rrCen vais, Adieu, que Dieu vous benisseP
A little later, by the advice of the interpreter,
the candles were -re-lit, when the medium and
his heavy arm-chair were found on the top of
the table. The chair had made a rotation of
a quarter of a circle. During the whole time
of the seance the hands of Mr. Husk were held.
Mr. Husk trembled and sighed when the spirits
said they were drawing power from him; he
was bathed in perspiration, which smelt, says k
the doctor, “ like that which I have observed
when I have auscultated certain persons.^ The
witnesses, he adds, were honourable men, occu¬
pying recognised scientific positions, and were
all convinced that the facts were inexplicable
by simple combinations of any known forces. ;
Those present at the seance, besides Mr.
Husk and his interpreter, were Dr. Michel
Yazeille, of Issy ; Mr. Troseille, chemist, Issy;
Dr. Troseille, of Paris; Mrs. Troseille, his wife ;
Mr. Troseille, his son; Mr. X., chemist; Mr.
Y., his pupil; Mr. Eouquerolles, chemist, who
speaks English fluently; Mr. and Mrs. Yazeille,
father and mother of Dr. Yazeille.
Lecture by Dr. Hack Tuke On Monday evening,
February 20th, Dr. Hack Tuke, F.R.C.P., delivered an
address at York on Witchcraft, in which he traced the
legislative enactments bearing on Witchcraft in Great
Britain, and endeavoured to snow that the witches of old
were some of them insane, others labouring under hys¬
teria, epilepsy and chorea; while some suffered from
none of these maladies* but had the misfortune to be old
and ugly. Looking back on the fearful consequences of
attempting to punish witches, he doubted the wisdom of
bringing the law to bear upon any of whom lie described
as “ their modern representatives, whether in the form
of so-called mediums or even fortune-tellers.”
Price 7s. 6d: Crown 8vq. Cloth. Bed Edges.
A PHILOSOPHY OF IMMORTALITY,
BY THE HON. RODEN NOEL,
Auilior of “ A Little Child's Monumentp etc.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Psyche Office, 33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS
About Mr. Roden Noel’s “ Beatrice, and other Poems ” ^
“. . . La distinction de votro Muse, soit qu’elle se developpe dans des draraes touchants, soit qu’elle se complaise £t de charmants pay-sages et
a des pieces exquises eomme les Jwwe Roses, vous sentez teudrement la nature et vous la rendez d’une maniere bien vive. Il y a dans votre
volume un morceau a part et que des amis & qui je Fai montre prefereut a tout, o’est ce petit chef-d’oeuvre de * Ganymede.* "-—Sainte Heave.
“ We have italicised two wonderful bits, but the whole passage should be italicised. The slenderness of the subject conceded, writing more
exquisite it would not be easy to fine in contemporary poetry. . . . For a companion picture nearly as delicious, and perhaps more compressed,
we should have to go back to Coleridge. Oiit of Coleridge, moreover, it would not be easy to find any philosophical pbetry finer than certain
portions of Mr. Noel’s ‘ Pan ’—a poem very striking and quite original—forming a sort of grandiose pantheistic hymn to Nature. . . ., As mere
blank verse.it is very striking, resonant, grandiose, and full of emotion. Some of the lyrics, all of a very fragile intellectual beauty, are
very musical indeed. In moods like these—in a softly-tiuted sentiment, closely akin to his delicately sensuous feeling ior natural colour—Mr.
N.oel has no rival. . . . Although these peculiarities are as yet too indefinitely manifested to warrant any final judgment as to the powers of the
writer, it is nevertheless clear that his powers are those of genius, and, what is better, of genius specifically poetic. ... ‘ Ganymede,’ an idyl
thoroughly Greek, a bit of work which reads like Theocritus in the original. Artistically a finished gem, it remains in the eye like a small
'Ewmev.”—-Athenaeum. - .. |
“ It is impossible to read ‘ Beatrice ’ through without being powerfully moved. There are passages in it which for intensity and tenderness
clear and vivid vision, spontaneous and delicate spmpathy, may be compared with the best efforts of our best living writers.”—Spectator, sg
“ Beatrice is the heroine of a true love story of great delicacy, power, and passion, in which the author shows his entire mastery of many
different kinds of verse, and his intimate acquaintance with the broader woridngs of human nature. It is a story of power and beauty, told as
a poet only can tell it.”—Standard. •
