Registered as a'Newspaper.•'
joU^KSi< f'^YdSo^o^idS^ ^di^Kds^.
#.lb^st Ifefosppir toit^ m ($xmi |5nfam *■**
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane., St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Cerso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sijcth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street, WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street,
No. 256. (Vol. XL—No. 3.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY 20, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Juventus Mundi... k   ...   ...      25
Spiritual Laws ...7 ...     ...' 26
Spiritualism in Liverpool - -    ... ... ... 27
The Moral Sentiment   '    ... ... ... 27
De Quinoey’s Character  ...    28
' A Seance ia Dublin .‘.v  ... '..; ... 29
Mr. F.'TennysonPh Spiritualism... '... ‘... ... ... ... 30
On-Certain Anomalies in Mesmeric Phenomena. By Cap-
' tain John James,... ...  : ...   ... ... 31
The. Albany Law Journal on the Recent Prosecutions of
Mediums ... ... ...   ... ...   ... 32
PoetryRopierucian Hymn   32
CorrespondenceAmateur Conjuring—Dr. Slade in Hol-
lahd—-The Tower Ghost—Mysterious Rappings—An Ap-
. parition—The Ultimate Constitution of Matter—Dr. Car¬
penter and Spiritualism—The Experiences of the Rev.
W. Miall—Spiritualism in Nottingham   32
Social and Sectarian Narrowness:—A Stiff-necked Son—
The Converted Carman . ...   ...  36
Answers to Correspondents ...'  36
Paragraphs:—A Nice Family, 26 ; Spiritualism in America,
26 ySpiritualism in Ralston, 26; The Telephone, 27; Mr. ■
Robert”.Dale Owen, 27 ; Emotional Spiritualism, 29; The
Treatment of Mediums, 29; An Apparition, 35; Mr.
Spurgeon on Guardian Angels ; Transition Periods, 35 ;
The Queen’s Prize at Wimbledon, 35; Royal Normal
College for the Blind, 35; Psychological Observations by
Mr. Dar\yin     ... ...  35
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress oj the Science and Ethics q/
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
RSTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A, oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
Uuited Kingdom, and'is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ises in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley. C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes', F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British-Associa¬
tion for .the Advancement pi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
SayniWittgehstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness :■ His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuehtenberg);-Mr. H. G,.Atkinson. F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon; J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barfister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man- (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Bostoif, U;S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marrrat);, Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelina Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.i Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. IEdin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St.- George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. Cl Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jehcken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.' Algernon Joy,
M.Irtst.C.E.: Mr. D. -H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. C, Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .‘Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbotirne’: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San -Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist.
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great RusselUstreet, London, W.C.
Publishing Office: 13,- Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.- “ •
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,-
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE HEADING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including, some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientiflc subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in ths same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library; and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.  
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-eoad-nobth, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, HON. SEP.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Oaxton celebration), is a self-inking one
andean easily he worked by a child of ten. Its work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of. interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., &e., post free 13 stamps.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees.
22, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
A “Model” Press on view at Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell street, W.O.
Price from ^Qs. to £9 10s.
FOB THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS ' WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear's, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
BIRKBECK BANE. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O
DEPOSITS, received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. 1 On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balahces. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills'of, Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon;
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
  FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.   
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St, James's-street; and Mr, Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
HENRY D. JENCKEN,' ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, ’Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston Lane, Dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media,, lectures, discus^
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances or
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines arc
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
ormation of circles and conduct Of seances,’’ and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary. -
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven-
Admission free; voluntary contributions. . Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
WILLIAM FLETCHER, THE
• AMERICAN SPEAKER, WILL GIVE HIS LEC¬
TURE, “ A Half Hour from Alexandria to Jerusalem,” at
Langham Hall, August 6th, in connection with Mrs. Weldon’s
regular Concert.
T~llE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF
SCIENCE for July, 1877, price 5s., edited by William
Crookes, F.R.S., &c., contains a review of Dr. Carpenter’s
1,1 Mesmerism, Spiritualism, tfc.,” by Alfred Russel Wal¬
lace. London: 3, Horse-shoe-court, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’a Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d. ‘
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
HATCHARD’S DUPLEX FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &c.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATCHARD & CO.,7
FUNERAL FURNISHERS, &C.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 20, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President..
Alexander Calder., Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S. W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Tipper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Hi'nywood, Mrs., 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Eogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, X. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. Eh, 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryhain,-!, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, WateHoo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
• Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
W hite, J., Hemlock-house .Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W. •
Wiseman, Mrs„ 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss IL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook.1 Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S. A,
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mlttra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.*
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,986, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson,Esq.,M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes;Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2. Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St, Pierre, Eiterbeek, Brussels*
M. A. Anthelipe Fritz, President de PUnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, GayugaCO., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W. ’ _y
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill,'Dorking
.Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlte. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
. W.B. Godbe, Esq,, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 51, Buda-Testh, Hungary. ,
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W- Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs, Halfock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefs tad t Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff .
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
pRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
VDT will be published as soon as Mrs. W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—-Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistoek-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
npHE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
JL THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Frederick
A. Binney.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6®d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. T7ie Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
JBogino, No. 23.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At .home daily from 12 till 8,1 On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o'clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TRANCE MEDIUM,
14, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, W.C.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. j. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E. 
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
• will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sill wood-road
Brighton.
TL. HENLY, Mesmerist, 5, St. James’s-
• terrace, Notting-hill. “ Your treatment of insanity is
excellent.”—George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaee,
Hyde-park, to whom reference is permitted.
MRS. PARKER Lectures on all Social
Reform Subjects, and attends Drawing Room Dis¬
cussions. Now at Pekin House, 11, Elizabeth-place, Jersey,
Hours from 12 to 5,
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may ha had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo -
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, ” Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, price 4d.
Clairvoyance, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
A CATALOGUE of a most extraordinary
callection of six hundred works on Alchemy, Appari¬
tions, Astrology, Chiromancy, Dreams, Geomancy, Mesmerism,
Physiognomy, Psychology, The Rosierucians, Freemasons, and
Mysties, Sorcery and Witchcraft, with some curious miscel¬
laneous books, will be sent post free on receipt of six penny
stamps, which will he returned to purchasers by John Wilson,
12, King William-street, Charing-cross.
^ NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instruotions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300Jbr Is., post free, or 500for Is. 0d,,post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOB DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
r The Spiritualist says:—f Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this jnaterialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutzb. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
| cl xt! mb ti
Volujvie Eleven. Kumber Thf^ee.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 20th, 1877.
JUYENTUS MUNDI.
“ Ten thousand arts have mouldered from the earth, and Science is the
shadow of what it was.”—The Late Lord Lytton.
As long back as 1845, a remarkable article on “Animal I
Magnetism” appeared in Fraser's Magazine for July of that !
year. It contained this sentence:—“The farther we have j
penetrated the darkness which broods over the transactions i
of bygone days, and probed the occult mysteries of our early j
progenitors, the more thoroughly are we convinced that in |
our time we are but conning the rudiments of a department |
of physiological and psychological science in which they j
were as perfect as human capacity could make them.” I
The publication of Harriet Martineau’s Autobiography has j
recalled her Letters on Mesmerism, published more than j
thirty years ago, and some notes and comparisons pencilled j
on them at the time, which may, perhaps, be worth repro- j
ducing now. In the second letter there is a dialogue be- j
tween Miss Martineau’s mesmerised maid and the operator |
on the difference between mind and soul, which she declared j
to be different, affirming that every human being consists j
of three things—soul, mind, and body, whereof soul is j
chief, being immortal, but mind perishes with the body, j
Now, we may be sure that the maid, and, probably—not- j
withstanding her wide knowledge—Miss Martineau herself,
were unacquainted with those grey and time-worn utterances
of primaeval antiquity which have come down to us under
the title of Chaldaean Oracles, many of which have the pre¬
cise air of having been delivered under mesmeric or spiritual
influence, and the likeness may be taken to guarantee the
genuineness of both ancient and modern revelations. For
example, the 18th Oracle (following the order adopted in
Cory’s Collection) runs thus :—
“ After the Paternal conception
I, the Soul, reside, a heat animating all things,
For He placed Mind in Soul, and Soul in dull Body,”
The next Oracle asserts the superior excellence of Soul,
and the 20th says—“ The Soul, being a bright fire, by the
power of the Father, remains immortal, and is mistress of
life.” Oracles 12 to 13 speak of the superiority of Mind.
Pythagoras held the Soul to consist of two parts, the <j)pr)v,
immortal and intellectual, seated in the brain, of which the
senses are drops, and the 6v/j,o<;, non-intellectual, seated in
the heart. Plato gaye the same dwellings to the divine intel¬
ligent part of the Soul, the latter being the cause of the
passions ; and that it may not disturb the intelligent part,
the long, bony neck, he says, has been interposed between
them. The Jewish Kabbis distinguished three sorts of Soul,
the Nephesch, or animal (Gen. ix. 4; Levit. xvii. 11),
Ruah, or Spirit, and Neschomah, rational or Divine Spirit
(Gen. ii. 7), the last immortal, the other two belonging to
the grave. These distinctions were not unknown to early
Christian theology. The Sabellians described the Trinity
as corresponding to Body, Soul, and Spirit; and Origen,
following St. Paul (1 Thess. v. 23), divided human nature
into Spirit, Soul, and Body, and, writing of the Atonement,
argues that the first was offered to the Devil, but the second,
even of the condemned, remained with God, to whom it had
been previously surrendered (Luke xxiii. 46). Antiquity
was full of such speculations, all of which seem primarily
traceable to mesmeric or spiritual intentions and revelations,
which have never wholly failed from the days of Chaldsean
Zoroaster to Harriet Martineau. A great man of our times,
Frederick Schlegel, asserted the threefold division into Body,
Mind, and Soul; but the science and philosophy of the
present hour not only utterly repudiate any such ideas, but
see no reason for discerning any Mind apart from Brain, or
Soul from bodily organs. Harriet Martineau did not. Mr.
F. Harrison describes the sort of spiritual existence or con¬
tinuation he thinks reasonable and sufficient, but Spirit-
I ualists may ask whence come the voices and communications,
| and what are the visible and palpable forms we sometimes
| certainly behold.
Beturning now to Miss Martineau’s maid.—"When speaking
| of seeing spiritual things and visions; she says : “ I see
| them not like dreams in common sleep, but things out of
| the world—not the things themselves, but impressions of
i them—they come through my brain.” Compare this with
| the assertion of the old Oracles, “ that the impressions of
| character and of other divine visions appear in the ether ”
| (0. 113); and again, the 115th Oracle speaks of “ the in-
I effable and effable impressions of the world.” The maid
| also asserts she “ can see diseases,” and it is with reference
j to some such power that the 114th Oracle speaks of a state
| or ecstasy in which “ the things without figure are figured.”
Again she, in common with many other sensitives, dwells
| with delight upon the unspeakably beautiful aural light or
j lucidity she beheld, and the Oracles continually mention this
| in terms more or less direct, for it is a vision hard to con-
| vey through human words or ideas ; but it is referred to in
! these experiences: “A Power of circumlucid strength,
| glittering with Intellectual sections.” “To the Intellectual
j whirlwinds of Intellectual fire all things are subservient;
he, too, who begirds the flower of fire, and the strong spirit
| of the poles, all fiery beyond.” The fire-glowing conception
j has the first rank, “ for the mortal who approaches that fire
j shall have light from God ; it removes all the stains which
j the spirit of the soul attracted from generation.” “ Put on
! the complete-armed vigour of rebounding light, with triple
| strength fortifying the soul and the mind.” On one occasion
| the maid gave a curious account of a light leaping up above
the steady light, which recalls an Oracle ascribed to Zoro-
i aster himself:—
i || When you behold a sacred Fire without form
| Leap dashingly through the depths of the world,
i Hear the Yoiee of Fire.”
! But only those who have seen, and know how inadequate
[ words are to express what they have seen, can conceive what
1 these utterances, to others so like jargon, endeavour to
convey.
Recurring to the idea with which we started, it may be
useful to bring together some of the earliest references to
mesmeric operations in the ancient world. Solon, the sage
| and lawgiver of Athens, b.c. 600, expressly says : “ When
1 all medicines fail, the sickness-tormented man, touched by
hands, shall straightway become whole ” (xii. 61., edit.
Bergh.). ZEschylus, at the end of The Suppliants, says
that lo was at last released from the misery of her trans-
! formation by the stroking of Jove’s healing hand; and,
| again, in the Prometheus Bound, 873, Prometheus tells her
■ that in the land of the Nile, Jove will restore her to sanity
by only stroking and touching with his soothing hand, and
; that she should there bear him a son named Epaphus, ie.,
; j the Stroker, who would rule in that land; whence it may be
I conjectured that the science of mesmeric healing was handed
i down there.
Mesmeric sensibility was a familiar matter in the antique
' | world, and there is much ground for thinking that the whole
j great Orphic School and Philosophy were devoted to its
;! theory and practice. The celebrated Epimenides, one of the
| founders of the Orphic theology, seems to have been a great
I medium. He was reputed to be a man “of a sacred and
I marvellous nature, whose soul quitted its body as long and as
! often as it pleased; ” and Plato says of him, that “ his mind
j had a prophetic and inspired sense of divine things.” So,
j too, we read in the JDabistan, Yol. L, 278, that “ the Gush-
| taspians of Iran had such power, that when they pleased,
I they could leave the body, which they treated as a garment; ”
I and, again, in the same volume,. Zoroaster prepares
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 20, 1877.
King Grushtasp for a heavenly vision by drinking some j
“hallowed wine/’ probably mesmerised wine; Erdaviraph !
drinks thrice of such wine, and in the sleep that follows, like |
that mysterious man of St. Paul’s, is caught up into heaven. |
Maximus Tyrius, in his 22nd Dissertation^ tells of one |>
Aristeas, a philosopher, in whose wisdom no one would at j
first believe, because he could mention no preceptor who had I
instructed him, and none knew whence he had got his know- j
ledge; but he explained that his soul had left his body, |
and wandered over all countries and islands, whether of the j
Greeks or barbarians, and he had hence seen the customs j
and manners of all nations, and come to understand the j
causes of the changes of the weather, the tides, and of the !
outflow of rivers, and that traversing the sky was easier to j
him than travelling on earth.
There is a multitude of references to the aural light often
seen to issue from the bodies of sensitives. Virgil (/Dneid,
ii. 582) says, a harmless flame blazed from the hair of
Ascanius; and Dionysius, in his Antiquities^ reports the same j
of Servius Tullius when young. Pliny, too, in his Natural j
History (II. 37), describes a light shining round the heads of j
certain men; and Eustathius, in his Commentaries on the I
Iliads says of Walimer, the father of Theodoric, the con- I
queror of Italy, that sparks issued from his body; and some- j
times, when dressing and undressing, entire flames blazed j
from him, not burning the garments. From this description j
they appear to have been of an electrical nature, due to friction | |
as in several well-authenticated modern instances. Pausanias j
(ii. 25) relates a legend that Aesculapius, when a child, was |
exposed on Mount Tithion, and a herdsman, searching for j
his goats, found the babe, whose body emitted rays of brilliant j
light, and subsequently the child was discovered to have |
miraculous healing powers, the fame of which spread quickly j
over land and sea. May not the whole story and worship of | |
AUsculapius, so widely diffused and honoured in so many j j
temples, have originated in a person of extraordinary mes- hi
meric healing powers ? When Apollonius Tyanus, himself a j j
great medium, was in India, his biographer {Lib. III. 3), j
relates that a young Indian came running to them, a part of j j
whose forehead, between the eyebrows, shone like the moon, j !
“in the same manner as has been related of Memnon, | |
Herodes the Sophist, and Luprius the Ethiopian.” In j j
mediaeval and later times, Cardan, Bartholinus, Scaliger, | I
Licetus, and many others, have recounted numerous instances, j j
and Beccaria gives a remarkable case. But enough has been j
brought forward to show the identity of ancient and modern I
experiences and observation in these mysterious matters, j
as widely known in the most primitive times of which we j
have any written indication as now, but no better, possibly |
not so well, understood now as then. It has, however, been j
reserved for the philosophy of to-day to discover a short and |
easy explanation of the whole. All was and is imposture or j
deception; deception perhaps more or less unconscious, but !
still deception. j
If you want to talk heavy science, say “protoxyde of hydrogen,” (
instead of ice. It sounds bigger, and not one in a thousand will know |)[
what you mean. HI
, A Nice Family.—The Boston Sunday Herald of June 24th gives \\
the following news :—Jjj The Eddy family, of Chittenden, Yt., whose / !
movements a year or two ago were chronicled with minuteness, are j j
now seldom mentioned. Several of them, it will be remembered, were ||
at Angora, N.J., but now William alone remains; the others have re-
turned to Vermont, where he doubtless would follow were he not sure (l
of a speedy arrest by the officers of that State, with a prospect of im- j j
prisonment on the charge of bigamy. Horatio is at work on the old | i
homestead, farming. Alice lately attempted to commit suicide, but for Hi
what reason has not transpired. The old lady, Cleveland, so often j||
mentioned as a regular attendant at the circles that were held so ijl
frequently a few years ago, purchased a farm next to the Eddys, but for I j j
a long time has not been on intimate terms with them. Lately the |(|
house was burned to the ground, having been fired by an incendiary, ] j
and this event has not lessened the differences between herself and the ! | i
Eddys. Mary Huntoon, the other Eddy sister, has been away from i j
Vermont for some weeks, and has very recently been in Springfield, jji
Mass. She often feels herself called upon to express her regret that i j I
her brothers should descend to trickery when giving their siances. j/i
The brothers return the , compliment by making very plain remarks j (|
about Mrs. Huntoon herself and her method of producing the mani- jjj
festations which she claims to be of spiritual origin. Mary is to be at j j j
Lake Pleasant camp meeting this summer, so it is said, and if it be i J!
true the readers of this department may hear more of her. The family j j i
doubtless possess medial power, but help along the manifestations when j j!
they have an opportunity,” 5' ‘
SPIRITUAL LAWS.
“ Time may disclose Laws in the actings of God towards
the Soul ; nay, none imagine that he acts capriciously,
except a remnant of a school which veils caprice under the
word sovereignty. There can be no objection to science
exploring spiritual action with purely scientific ends, pro¬
vided that it ascertain the popular facts correctly on which
it is to refine. But this proviso includes, first, that the men
of science shall treat with tender thoughtfulness the facts
alleged by the unscientific men who have felt them, and
shall cease to shower on them vague phrases of contempt,
as mysticism and fanaticism; secondly, that the would-be
scientific classifier of facts shall not strangle the facts in their
birth. . . . The active part of man consists of powerful in¬
stincts. Some are gentle and continuous, others violent and
short; some baser, some nobler; all necessary. A moral
control over them all is desirable; and by all means let any
vagaries of the soul (as in all fanatical religion) be severely
checked by our moral principle. With this limitation the
instincts have an inherent right to exist and to act, and the
perfection of man depends on their harmonious energy.
As operating alike on all ages, perhaps the instinct which
seeks after God and the Infinite is the most powerful in
man. Let us follow out this great and glorious tendency.
Let us give free play to our nature, without fear of the
critics : we shall get holiness, peace and joy; and may
haply bequeath facts for some future man of science. If we
drink the heavenly nectar ourselves, others may analyse our
juices when we are dead.”—The Soul: its Sorrows and its
Aspirations. By Francis William Newman,
Mrs. Eliza Boucher has published a letter in the Western Daily
Press, Bristol, giving the public the details of Dr. Slade’s offer to
Professor Lankester.
Dr. Slade’s advertisement was printed in the Daily News of
June 14th, in column six of page one. . A subscription towards it of
£l from H. was not included in the account published last week, and
has been added to the leaflet subscriptions.
Spiritualism in America.—The Index (Boston, Mass.), of June 7th,
contains an article by the Rev. A. B. Bradford, who says :—“ The most
crushing blow given to the idea of an authoritative priesthood is in the
spread of Spiritualism. Without discussing the question of the truth¬
fulness of the theory, it is a fact that hundreds of thousands believe it.
And all over the country the very first effect of showing that there is a
telegraphic communication between the world of the departed and the
world of the living is to push the clergy to one side as an excrescence,
drawing their useless life from the body of society. Their claims are all
treated with contempt since Spiritualism makes every man his own
prophet, priest, and king. As to the Church, it sinks in their esteem to
the dead level of the world. Spiritualism is peculiar in this, that it
leavens up the whole mass of society except the Sadducees. Having so
much of Scripture on its side, it insinuates itself into the churches, and
captivates many of the clergy who, for prudential reasons, conceal their
real sentiments from the knowledge of their flocks. But the very moment
Spiritualism convinces a layman, his old faith in a mediatorial priest¬
hood, and in the Church as the ark of safety, gives way like flax at the
touch of fire. This faith is not limited to those of Caesar’s household;
but multitudes of persons of the highest moral character, and the best
minds, are its converts. It has the elements of popularity, because it
appeals to the feelings and hopes of mankind; and, if half as well-
manned and organised as the Church is, would soon outnumber her ad¬
herents. But even in its unorganised condition, by which it loses four-
fifths of its power, it exercises a controlling influence in many sections
of the country.”
Spiritualism in Dalston.—The new premises of the Dalston Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism, situated at 53, Sigdon-road,
Hackney Downs, Dalston-lane, close to the Hackney Downs station on
the Great Eastern Railway, will be opened on Thursday evening next,
the 26th inst. The proceedings will comprise a lecture and readings by
Mr. R. A. March on “Milton’s Paradise Lost, from a Spiritualist’s
Point of View.” The chair wiil be taken at eight p.m. The secretary
hopes to see a good attendance of members and friends present on the
occasion.—On Thursday evening last week, the usual monthly session
of the Council of the Dalston Association was held at 72, Navarino-
road, Dalston, under the presidency of Mrs. Corner. There were also
present Messrs. Thos. Blyton, John Rouse, and Jonathan Tozeland.
Letters were read from the Countess of Caithness, and Mr. J. Mclsack,
Presentations, received since the last meeting, were laid upon the table
and accepted with a cordial vote of the donors, viz.—Countess of
Caithness, and Messrs. W. Decordova and Co. The hon. treasurer
submitted the cash accounts, which were passed. Sir Charles Isham,
Bart., was elected an ordinary member, and Miss Emily Thomson
re-elected an ordinary member. It was resolved to invite Mr. F. M.
Parkes to pay a special visit to the Association on 30th August next.
The hon. secretary drew attention to the loss of one of the library
works, consequent on failure on part of a late member to return the
same; and it was ordered to be written off the books. It was reported
that the new premises situated at 53, Sigdon-road, Hackney Downs,
would probably be ready in the course of the current month. The
Council then adjourned.
July 20, 1877.
THE SPlBlTtFALlST.
27
SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
On Monday evening, July 9th, Mrs. Hardinge Britten, of Boston,
United States, gave an inspirational lecture at Meyerbeer Hall,
Liverpool, on “ The Spiritual Position.” Dr. William Hitchman
presided, and there was a good attendance. She began at the first chapter
in the history of modern Spiritualism, by reference to the Rochester
rappings, which she said seemed to have revived a latent power, j
and which certainly evolved the modern form of Spiritualism. From |
that time to the present, spiritual beings had communicated with their
friends in the flesh through the agency of human instruments or
otherwise. But, as their learned chairman had already told them that !
to believe without adequate evidence is irrational, and to disbelieve against j
the testimony of proof is equally irrational, she considered a reasonable ]
balance to be the true philosophy of credibility. Some inquirers having |
attempted to dictate to nature, rather than accept the conditions or laws i
which regulate spiritual and material communion, they had sown the
seed of folly, and could not reap the harvest of wisdom. Nothing was I
true, in the opinion of exclusive men of science, that did not subject j
itself to physical analysis, material tests, and their own preconceived or !
bigoted gauges. Varieties of mediumship were very numerous, and the
medial faculty, or force, was liable to change. Mediums were mortal,
like themselves, and not exempt from the influence of evil communi¬
cations, generated within and without each spirit-circle. Why was the
theory of imposture now predominant ? Because the methods of the j
laws of matter were not always effective for scientific inquiry into the j
facts and phenomena of Spiritualism. Had not the Lord said, “ Who j
shall persuade Ahab?” Was there no lying spirit in the mouth of |
materialists ? Spirits who communed with mortals had got souls that j
were darkened in earth-life by false theological impressions, and the
mischief of a blind faith in an infallible church, a divine priesthood,
and various horrid bugbears that terrify and madden the victims of
superstitious ecclesiasticism from generation to generation. Were not i
the little children of this our day indoctrinated with the most un¬
reasonable views of God, involving mediation of the innocent for the |
guilty, priestly intervention, confession, absolution, justification—in
short, official saoramentalism instead of true spirituality, or religion of
heart and life 1 Most assuredly. And the national schools for infants
were shamefully disfigured by dogmas, which, in the minds of
profound thinkers or scholars only, and when fairly modified by
other considerations, had any rational meaning or common sense. !
Let her not be told, then, of the conflicting elements of spirit-teaching
by way of mediumship. Souls exist there as they are made here; the !
mere act of transition from one state to another changed not the indi¬
vidual nature or character. Obedience to the laws of development was
the never-ending condition of progress, spiritually and materially. |
Spiritual senses, or the faculties of the higher life, like the physical j
functions of mortal coil, were exalted, or degraded, in the precise ratio |
of culture and neglect. Such was the Divine government; if men
sowed the wind they reaped the whirlwind, and this was the explana¬
tion of our spiritual position. We must worship God in spirit and in
truth, not Mammon in the practice of imposture, for the sake of satis- j
faction to phenomenalists or worldly benefit to ourselves. There must
be a change. Spiritualism was an eternal light from heaven that would
never be quenched by the temporary darkness of earth, whether
popular faith be eclipsed by its friends or foes. Let them form spirit
circles at home with their own families, righteously and persistently,
and they would not fail to be convinced in due time that angelic
phenomena were genuine, and the results of spiritual influence as
affirmed. She wished England, her dear native isle, to be the queen
of nations, in goodness and greatness the foremost, and in this holy I
cause the bravest and the best.
Last Sunday, July 15th, Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy was the lecturer j
in the same institution. She took for her subject, “ What is purity? ” j
She proved a worthy successor in oratory to Mrs. E. H. Britten, j
without being under the control of any other spirit than that which j
God had given to herself. Though not an advocate for scrupulous j
nicety or Pharisaical affectation in the sense of external formality and
unreasonable theology, Mrs. Nosworthy, it is well known, is the stern
inflexible upholder of moral and religious duties. She protested that 1
the Christianity of Jesus was not a Sunday show and a six days sham,
but the outcome of true purity of heart and soul, by virtue of which
the devoted Spiritualist sees God and communes with angels. With¬
out practical excellence theological dogma was an empty doctrine ; and
puritanism of belief, if strictly orthodox, was no better than a term of j
reproach, without good works. A vicious ungodly multitude might
make their weekly “ confession,” but such hebdomadal mockery with¬
out regeneration was not true purity. The real Spiritualist must
have no such time-serving expediency with a view to promote selfish
• interests or prosperity on earth, but, like the obedient Christian, each
life must be serious and sincere from high and noble aspirations,
venerating the holiness of religion, the chastity of truth, the honour of
purity, and Christlike forgiveness. Practical spirituality involved no j
blind submission to stereotyped articles and ceremonial observances. j
The Telephone.—Mr. Cromwell F. Varley, the Atlantic Telegraph
electrician, whose work in connection with Spiritualism is so well
known to the readers of these pages, has invented an instrument by
means of which musical sounds can be transmitted by telegraph. In
fact, we aided him in his fundamental experiments in connection with
this invention some years ago. On Thursday, last week, he exhibited
the apparatus at work at the Queen’s Theatre, in Long Acre. The
tune, “ Where, and O where, is my Highland Laddie Gone 1 ” was
played through two miles of wire, and was hailed with loud cheers.
Next came, “ The Last Rose of Summer.” The experiments gave general
satisfaction to those present.
THE MORAL SENTIMENT.
Among eminent persons, those who are most dear to men
are not of the class which the economist calls producers;
they have nothing in their hands ; they have not cultivated
corn nor made bread ; they may not have led out a colony
nor invented a loom. A higher class in the estimation and
love of this city-building, market-going race of mankind,
are the poets who, from the intellectual kingdom, feed the
thought and imagination with ideas and pictures which raise
men out of the world of corn and money, and console them
for the shortcomings of the day, and the meannesses of
labour and traffic. Then, also, the philosopher has his value
who flatters the intellect of this labourer, by engaging him
with subtleties which instruct him in new faculties. Others
may build cities, he is to understand them and keep them
in awe. But there is a class who lead us into another region,
the world of morals, or of the will. What is singular
about this region of thought, is its claim. Wherever the
sentiment of right comes in, it takes precedence of every¬
thing else. For other things, I make poetry of them.
But the moral sentiment makes poetry of me. ... If
we tire of saints, Shakspeare is our city of refuge. Yet the
instincts presently teach, that the problem of essence must
take precedence of all others,—the question of Whence?
What? and Whither ? and the solution of these must be in
a life and not in a book. A drama or poem is a proximate or
oblique reply; but Moses, Menu, Jesus, work directly on this
problem. The atmosphere of moral sentiment is a region of
grandeur which reduces all material magnificence to toys, yet
opens to every wretch that has reason the doors of the
universe. Almost with fierce haste it lay its empire on man...
All men are commanded by the saint.—Emerson's Repre¬
sentative Men.
The Boston (U.S.) Sunday Herald says:—•“William Davenport,
one of the Davenport Brothers, now in Australia, is in a very pre¬
carious state, and the worst results are expected ; cause, general break¬
up of the system. Later reports are more hopeful.”
Mr. Matthew Patterson, Librarian to the Newcastle Psychological
Society, informs us that since that society has been reorganised ninety
members have been enrolled. The premises of the society have recently
been made considerably more comfortable and attractive.
Contentious correspondence about Miss Wood’s seances is now going
on in the Barrow Herald. The wholesale distribution of information
how to form spirit circles at home will do more to disseminate Spiritual¬
ism in any locality than any amount of controversy, and at much less
cost and trouble.
Dr. Lynn is exhibiting burlesques of Spiritual phenomena at the
Aquarium, and something of the same kind is going on at the Poly¬
technic. These people cannot produce their results in a house from
which they and their apparatus are excluded, but the real phenomena
can be obtained in private families, with no Spiritualist or conjuror
present.
Mr. J. J. Morse writes:—“ I notice your quotation from The Banner
of Light about my desired presence in the United States next winter.
At present I have no intention of leaving England; in fact, I am under
two contracts extending on to next March that would prevent my going
if I desired. At some future time I may, perhaps, cross the Atlantic
again; at present it is impossible.”
Mr. Robert Dale Owen.—We have to announce the death of Mr.
Robert Dale Owen, which occurred at Lake George on the 24th ult.
The son of the late Robert Owen, the social reformer, was born in 1801
at New Lanark. In 1828, having gone with his father to America, he
established in New York a paper called the JPree Inquirer, which existed
only three years. From 1843 to 1847 he sat as a Democrat in Congress
for the state of Indiana, where he had settled. He next became a
member of the Constitutional Convention of Indiana, and brought in
several measures in favour of women’s rights in regard to property.
In 1853 President Pierce appointed him Charge d’Affaires at Naples,
and in 1855 he became Minister. Three years afterwards we find him
back again in New York and engaged in a controversy with the late Mr.
Horace Greeley respecting divorce. When the Civil War broke out ha
strongly advocated the cause of the Federals, and wrote the remarkable
letter which induced President Lincoln to hasten the Emancipation
Proclamation. Meanwhile, he had made himself known as the author
of several works on various subjects. His first work was Near Views of
Society, published in 1825. In his old age he became a Spiritualist, and
since 1875 his mind has been effected. In regard to his belief in
Spiritualism, the Public Ledger of Philadelphia remarks :—“ The
reasoning power, the logical investigation, and thought he brought to
bear on other and more difficult subjects utterly failed him here. He
could reason logically upon the profoundest questions in social economy,
in Governmental policy, in intellectual philosophy, but yet his intellect,
his reason, and his logical power, when the subject of Spiritualism was
involved, did not prevent his becoming the dupe of the coarse, vulgar,
illiterate impostors who invented the ‘Katie King’ materialisation.”
•—The Times, July 11th,
DE QUINCEYS CHAKACTER *
Is that faculty which men call genius inseparably con¬
nected with a development of the inner or spiritual senses
which men call the abnormal faculty of mediumship ? Is the
genius a man ei whose eyes are open/’ who, Balaam-like, has
u heard the word of God, and known the knowledge of the
Most High, who has seen the vision of the Almighty, falling
into a trance, but having his eyes open ? ” Is genius a modi¬
fication of inspiration, and did the Coleridges, the Shelleys,
the Blakes, the Turners, the He Quinceys of this world live
and move and have their true being amid a higher and purer
atmosphere, whence, by dream and vision, or by the less pal¬
pable methods of intuition, they drew their inspiration;
reflecting, as it were in a glass during their waking hours the
scenes and experiences of their higher spiritual life ? Surely
enough those whom men call mediums are not to be called
otherwise geniuses. But there are various grades of medium-
ship, and may it be that one, the noblest as it is the most
fugitive, is that which flashes upon our darkness now and then
in the guise of genius ?
Such questions are irresistibly suggested by reading the
life of He Quincey. The world knows him as The Opium
Eater, the man who consumed laudanum by the quart, and
who has fixed for us in his Confessions some of the weird pic¬
tures which were born in his brain when saturated by the
drug. The world knows him too as a strange, fitful genius,
“ feckless,” as a Scot would say, in worldly matters, but
with a winning kindliness of manner all his own, the friend
and companion of children, trusted and beloved by all who
knew him as one in whom there was no guile. Those who
have studied his writings know him, moreover, as a master of
language, with a vivid power of portraying scenes and fixing
them on paper, and with a stately rhythmical flow in his
sentences which has hardly a parallel in literature.
But few know the strange inner life that the man led;
few suspect that what was attributed to opium was but the
intensifying, by means of that drug, of an inborn faculty. | J
It is a familiar fact that the supersensuous faculties have in |1
all ages been excited and intensified by means of drugs, i
fumigations, and adventitious aids of various kinds. It would j|
seem that in He Quincey’s case laudanum acted as a I
quickener to his already sensitive spirit.
In childhood he was a dreamer of dreams, not of the ordi- |
nary distorted psychological jumble that is so called, but of j
those coherent ahd sustained spiritual reminiscences which j
are hardly distinguishable from visions. In his Autobio- |
graphic Sketched he tells us that one of the very earliest j
incidents imprinted on his memory when he “could not j
have completed his second year,” was “ a remarkable dream j
of terrific grandeur about a favourite nurse.” And while he j1
was in his sixth year, the death of a sister Elizabeth, three j!
years older than himself, by bringing him face to face with I
the awful mystery of death, unsealed the inner fountains of j
his spiritual being. He stole, poor child, in the intensity j
of his grief, into the room where she lay a corpse, and as he !
gazed at the features on which the nameless change had I
passed, he fell into a trance, which he thus records :—
“ I stood checked for a moment; awe, not fear, fell upon me; and j|
whilst I stood, a solemn wind began to blow—the saddest that ear |
ever heard. It was a wind that might have swept the field of mortality
for a thousand centuries. Many times since, upon summer days, when j
the sun is about the hottest, I have remarked the same wind arising j
and uttering the same hollow, solemn, Memnonian but saintly swell: |
it is in this world the one great audible symbol of eternity 
Instantly, when my ear caught this vast ASolian intonation, when my
eye filled with the golden fulness of life, the pomps of the heaven j
above, or the glory of the flowers below, and turning when it settled
upon the frost which overspread my sister’s face, instantly a trance fell
upon me. A vault seemed to open in the zenith of the far blue sky, a
shaft which ran up for ever. I, in spirit, rose as if on billows that
also ran up the shaft for ever ; and the billows seemed to pursue the 1
throne of God ; but that also ran before us, and fled away continually.
The flight and the pursuit seemed to go on for ever and ever. Frost j
gathering frost, some Sarsar wind of death, seemed to repel me; some j
mighty relation between God and death dimly struggled to evolve
itself from the dreadful antagonism between them; shadowy meanings
even yet continue to exorcise and torment, in dreams, the deciphering
oracle within me. I slept—for how long I cannot say : slowly I re¬
covered my self-possession : and when i awoke, found myself standing j
as betore close to my sister’s bed.” i
It seems to have been a long time that intervened during j
this his first experience of the trance state. j
f Thomas do Quincoy: His Lift and Writings. By H. A. Page. In two volumes.
July 20, 1877.
The same intensifying power that nearness to death exer¬
cises over all who are not callous and crass in spirit, affected
him, twenty years later, on the death of Catharine Words¬
worth. The departure of the child had been one of dramatic
suddenness. “ She had gone to bed in good health about
sunset, was found speechless a little before midnight, and
died in the early dawn, just as the first gleams of morning
began to appear over Seal, Sandal, and Fairfield.” Never,
perhaps, from the foundation of those mighty hills was there
so fierce a convulsion of sorrow as manifested itself in He
Quincey’s sensitive spirit. He abandoned himself to the
luxury of solitary grief, and often spent the night upon her
grave.
“Not as may readily be supposed,” be says, “ in any parade of grief;
on the contrary, in that quiet valley of simple shepherds, I was secure
enough from observation, until morning light began to return ; but in
mere intensity of sick, frantic yearning after neighbourhood to the
darling of my heart. Many readers will have seen in Sir Walter
Scott’s Demonology, and in Dr. Abercrombie’s Inquiries Concerning the
Intellectual Powers, some remarkable illustrations of the creative
faculties awakened in the eye or other organs by peculiar states of
passion ; and it is worthy of a place amongst cases of the kind, that in
many solitary fields, at a considerable elevation above the level of the
valleys—fields which in the local dialect are called *■ intacks ’—my eye
was haunted at times, in broad noonday (oftener, however, in the after¬
noon) with a facility, but at times with a necessity, for weaving out of
a few simple elements a perfect picture of little Kate in the attitude
and onward motion of walking. I resorted constantly to these
‘ intacks ’ as places where I was little liable to disturbance; and
usually I saw her at the opposite side of the field, which might some¬
times be at a distance of a quarter of a mile, generally not so much.
Almost always she carried her basket on her head ; and usually the first
hint upon which the figure arose commenced in wild plants, such as tall
ferns of the purple flowers of the foxglove ; but whatever might be the
colours of the forms, uniformly the same little full-formed figure arose,
uniformly dressed in the little blue bedgown and black skirt of West¬
moreland, and uniformly with the air of advancing motion. Throughout
part of June, July, and part of August—in fact, throughout the
summer, this frenzy of grief continued.”
This same sensitiveness of spirit manifested itself in a
passionate love of nature, and in a strange sympathetic draw¬
ing towards some minds, and a violent rebound from asso¬
ciation with others. He had need of sympathy, and found
it most in the society of nature. From the artificiality of
man he shrank in dismay, drew into himself, and rushed
away to his beloved hills and valleys. His pure and simple
nature found there its choicest pleasures. For the same
reason he loved the simplicity of childhood, the purity of
Wordsworth, and the gracious tenderness of his sister, who
was one of his nearest friends. One of his first impressions
was one of “a profound sense of pathos” at the bursting
into life of some crocuses very early in the desolate spring.
One of the next was 1 a passion of grief in a profound
degree ” for the death of a kingfisher which had been taken
up in the garden with a broken wing. Then came “an
enduring sense of awe,” “ a dawning sense of the Infinite,”
as his child-soul opened its spiritual faculties to a recogni¬
tion of the sublimities that surrounded it, and the Im¬
mensities amid which it was a struggling Atom. This sense
he never lost. It was the key to much in his character, to
its hushed and reverent simplicity, to its tender graceful¬
ness as that which beseemed a child, to his solitary wander¬
ings and mountain-side meditations and visions.
Another great factor in the final formation of He Quincey’s
character is found in his intimate association with the Rev.
John Clowes, rector of St. Mary’s, Manchester, “a man of
wide learning and liberal sympathies, and a devotee of
Swedenborg.” He was the author of many Swedenborgian
tracts, as well as of A Plain Answer to Some Objections to
Swedenborg's System, and of a volume called Outlines of
Swedenborg's System. He Quincey became an habitue of
Mr. Clowes’s house, and fell under his powerful influence.
He says of him:—“He was the most spiritual-looking, the
most saintly in outward aspect, of all human beings 'whom
I have known throughout life, . . . . the most
unfleshly, the most sublimated spirit dwelling al¬
ready in some purer world that a poet could have
imagined.” The house was pervaded by a spirit of entire
repose, with painted windows to exclude the glare of day,
and an organ wherewith to summon the dreamy spirit of
meditation. Even the old butler, with his list shoes and
noiseless shuffle, was in keeping. Amid those peaceful
influences He Quincey’s spirit could not fail to develope,.
28
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 20, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
and within its calm precincts he unconsciously gained much
spiritual strength.
It would be interesting, did space allow, to trace this
growth, and to point out the numberless indications of the
permanence of the child till death: of the unsullied purity
and unabated simplicity that his spirit maintained all its
journey through. 0 si sic omnes! In this respect De
Quincey stands out a brilliant example to most who too
often prostitute talent to the service of Mammon, and re¬
gard purity as one of the childish things that manhood puts
away. He was incapable of meanness, or of vice, or even
of hireling work for mere pay. During the strange episodes
of his boy life on the streets of London, the tempter assailed
in vain, and vice had no charm to allure.
The same tender simplicity and childlike spirit mani¬
fested itself on his death-bed. His old love for children
cropped out, as, frequently enough when the spirit asserts
its victory over the body, the tastes and sympathies of child¬
hood recur at the close of life. He fancied that he had
with him—or shall we say that round his child-spirit in its
closing hours on earth were gathered a number of other
children whom he was taking with him to rest, “ to sup with
Jesus” in his quaint pietistic language. Some rough and
hard jeers distressed him, as he seemed to hear the passers-
by mocking at his little friends. He was distressed, not for
himself, but for them. It grieved him to see their pleasure
spoiled. The fancy stayed with him till the arrival of his
favourite daughter from Ireland. As the time drew nigh
for his spirit’s enfranchisement, his spiritual vision grew
clearer; he saw his mother and sister waiting to welcome
him, and joined them with a cry of delight. The last scene
is touchingly described :—
“ Such was his constant thought of children that he viewed her simply
as connected with his grandchildren. * How is mamma ?’ he said when
he saw her; nor did he address her as anything else but mamma again.
Towards the evening his weakness became extreme, and he said to my
sister, * Mamma, I cannot bear the weight of clothes upon my feet.’ My
sister at once pulled off the heavy blankets, and wrapped a light shawl
round his feet. ‘Is that better?’ she asked. ‘Yes, my love, much
better; I am better in every way—I feel much better. You know these
are the feet that Jesus washed.’ As the night wore on, our kind friend,
Dr. Warburton Begbie came and sat with us, as my father’s life slowly
ebbed away. Twice only was the heavy breathing interrupted by words.
He had for hours ceased to recognise any of us, but we heard him mur¬
mur, though quite distinctly, ‘My dear, dear mother. Then I was
greatly mistaken.’ Then, as the waves of death rolled faster and faster
over him, suddenly out of the abyss we saw him throw up his arms,
which to the last retained their strength, and say distinctly, and as if in
great surprise, ‘ Sister! sister! sister!’ The loud breathing became
slower and slower, and as the world of Edinburgh awoke to busy work
and life, all that was mortal of my father fell asleep for ever.”
The volumes from which we have extracted these reminis¬
cences contain much that is interesting to the Spiritualist;
and not a little that may throw light on some of the ques¬
tions with which we commenced this review. If, however,
they fail to elucidate such mysteries, they do at least exhibit
to us a record of the life, chequered with care, and blurred
with many a sorrow, of a saintly spirit who learned in that
hard school his lessons of development in knowledge, and
left it having preserved to the end the bloom of his purity
and simplicity of heart. In days when we are beginning to
ask ourselves how we may best put in practice the lessons
which our faith should teach, it may be well for us to look
in passing at the life-story of De Quincey. M. A. Ox on.
We regret to hear that Mr. Luther Colby, of the Banner of Lighty
has been unwell for some time.
Some indefatigable individual in Chicago has made a fruitless search
in an endeavour to find some trace of one George Rush, who died in
that city in 1857, aged 27. His object is to ascertain the correctness
of the statements of a guide to a new medium in England, who gave
the name and date, and, in addition, the information that he was the
“ son of a merchant.”—Boston Sunday Herald,
Emotional Spiritualism.—Dr. Eugene Crowell writes to us from New
York:—“ It is a continuous surprise and disappointment to me to observe
how few Spiritualists, comparatively, have any active desire to acquire
substantial knowledge of spiritual things. To be entertained—amused
—seems to be their object, and when they attain this they are satisfied.
Intellectually and spiritually these are children, and, so long as the
deception is not exposed, they would as soon witness a series of fraudu¬
lent exhibitions as of genuine manifestations. You might as well expect
this class of Spiritualists to accept your advice to study mathematics as
to seriously study psychology.”
29
A SEANCE IN DUBLIN.
Saunders's News Letter (Dublin), of July 7th, contains an anonymous
description of a s^ance} of which the following is the concluding
portion:—
Addressing the table, Mr. A. now asked if knocks could be given
without the contact of the hand. Three knocks in reply were to be the
signal for Yes. Three knocks quickly came. The hands of both Mr.
A. and Miss B. were now held up, and whilst they partially withdrew
from the table, the knocks still came, not so vigorously, but still there
they were. This went on for some minutes, till they ceased to be heard.
A refresher was then given in the shape of a few moments’ contact with
the hands. Once more the knocks returned, and continued some time
after the hands were removed.
Whilst noticing these facts, we observed a frequent uneasy movement
of the entire table, and now it sidled about in a most surprising manner.
Lifting their hands completely off the table, the sitters placed themselves
back in their chairs with their hands folded across their chests, their
feet were in full view, and under these conditions, and in obedience to
our request, the table raised the two legs nearest to us completely off
the ground, some eight or ten inches, and thus suspended itself for a
few moments. Again a similar act was performed on the other side.
And now came a very remarkable and interesting result. Whilst abso¬
lutely free from the contact of every person, the table wriggled itself
backward and forward, advancing towards the arm-chair in which I sat,
and ultimately completely imprisoning me in my seat. During its
progress it was followed by Mr. A. and Miss B., but they were at no time
touching it, and occasionally were so distant that I could perceive a free
space all round the table whilst it was still in motion. When thus under
my very nose the table rose repeatedly, and enabled me to be perfectly
sure by the evidence of touch that it was off the ground, and further,
that no human being, consciously or unconsciously, had any part in this
movement. Two hours and a half had now passed away, and then it
was time to leave. Before doing so I asked to be released by the same
agency that had imprisoned me. Forthwith the table flung itself round
with a suddenness and violence that frightened Miss B., and continued
to move off edgewise without the contact of any person, until there was
abundant room for me to pass out.
“ Well,” said N., on leaving the house, “ ‘there are more things in
heaven and earth than are dreamt of in our philosophy,’ Dr. Carpenter
notwithstanding; I honestly confess the phenomena we have witnessed
to-night are utterly inexplicable to me, and though the recital of our
experience may provoke laughter at the trivial and purposeless things
that occurred, yet these are indicative of something behind it all which
is worthy of serious study.”
“ Yes,” I remarked, “ that any one can be found who thinks he
knows all the mysteries this world contains, or who thinks the eluci¬
dation of such facts as we have seen to-night unworthy of a philosopher
surprises me greatly. But still more am I surprised at those who,
witnessing these phenomena, think that by attributing them to the
influence of a dominant idea, hallucination in fact, all need for further
explanation is at an end.”
“Incredulity becomes reprehensible and superstitious,” said N.,
when it refuses credence to any unaccountable fact, however well attested
it may be.” B.
Mrs. Eliza Corner (Florence Cook), arrived in London from China
on Saturday evening last, with her husband, Captain Corner, and
her daughter Katie. Mr. T. Blyton, honorary secretary to the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, had the pleasure of con¬
gratulating Mrs. Corner on her safe voyage home, and found her in
excellent health and spirits. Captain Corner’s ship, the M. A. Dixon,
is now berthed in the West India Docks.
The Treatment oe Mediums.—Signor Rondi, in the course of his
reply to the various speakers at the close of the recent debate at the
National Association of Spiritualists on “ The Treatment of the
Mediums,” said that in answer to the remarks of the secretary he
would state that he had never said a word about mediums being
badly treated by the National Association, and in speaking of the
grand phenomena he had seen on the Continent, he did not intend
to convey the idea that such phenomena were the best to make
Spiritualists, but the contrary. The idea of mediums passing some
of their time in manual labour was possibly a good one, but to his
mind the plan of the wash-tub during the day, and a seance at night,
would scarcely give the conditions spirits would like for the production
of good manifestations. If mediums were properly paid for their even¬
ing seances, he was sure they would not sit much in the daytime. It
was a mistake for anybody to understand him as singling out the
National Association of Spiritualists in regard to its treatment of mediums,
but as that organisation was formed for the making known of the laws of
Spiritualism, it seemed to him that it should take the lead in this matter,
and understand under what conditions the best results could be obtained.
No one could feel more deeply than himself the great difficulties to be
overcome in placing Spiritualism in a favourable light before the people,
especially when scepticism in Church and State stood forth as its deadly
enemy. The Association had done a great work in the past, and was
doing the same in the present; it only needed a little clearer under¬
standing of the philosophy and phenomena of Spiritualism to still more
extend its sphere of usefulness. He would conclude by recommending
the National Association of Spiritualists, to which he had the honour to
belong, to do its utmost to propagate the philosophy of Spiritualism, for
they all claimed a philosophy apart from the phenomena j by so doing
he was sure they would prepare the minds of those who desired to
investigate Spiritualism, and fit them for admittance to the seances.
This plan would be better than presenting wonders which they could not
or would not at first understand.
MR. F. TENNYSON ON SPIRITUALISM.
The following is an abridgment of a letter written by Mr. F. Tenny¬
son, brother to the Laureate, and communicated to'The Spiritual Maga¬
zine by Mr. John Traill Taylor
First: Spiritualism is the grand subject of the day to which no other
approaches in importance, except one, which I will refer to before the
close of this letter. The psychical and physical phenomena are un¬
questionably genuine facts; but perhaps you may not be aware to what
stupendous issues we are already come. In London and elsewhere,
spirits are incarnated for periods varying from a quarter of an hour to
three hours, and appear in the seance rooms in the midst of the
assembled company clothed in habiliments'palpable and material, which
under microscopic inspection lose nothing of their wonderful superfine
spiritual texture, whereas human fabrics under similar conditions be¬
come cables and cart-ropes. Out of these garments portions may be cut
before the temporary organism dissolves into its original elements,
which it does even while you are looking at it, and the rent in the gar¬
ment is instantly filled up, and no appearance of a rupture is visible.
My sister recently witnessed in London the descent of a spirit from the
cabinet where the medium was imprisoned for the time, and unable to
stir without being noticed. He was recognised as a man named Watts.
The actual state of the world is that of practical Atheism. Of this any
thoughtful mind must be convinced without much labour of thought.
The errors which for so many centuries have been preached from every
pulpit in the world have led to this issue, especially the doctrines of a
final day of judgment and resurrection of the natural body which, every
one knows, in a very brief period disappears altogether, is resolved into
gases, salts, and elementary substances, which again enter into
combination with other substances, and so on for ever. Moreover,
the indefinite postponement of this great and final day, for which there
is no authority except the language of Scripture, evidently figurative
and adopted—in accommodation to the ignorance of that day—from
human tribunals—“We shall all stand before the Judgment Seat of
Christ ”—has led to a virtual unbelief in the hearts of many men, what¬
ever they may profess to believe as to its actuality, and the best proof of
this unbelief is the general worldly-mindedness even of the best of men,
and the gross immorality and sensuality of the “ swinish multitude,” as
somebody in Parliament called them half a century ago. Now, Spirit¬
ualism, streaming on the world as from a gigantic bull’s-eye lantern,
has so taken it by surprise, that the Materialism, but ill-concealed under
the most plausible religionisms, breaks out at once into open scorn, not
only in the “swinish multitude,” but among the scientific leaders of
thought and many of the recognised spiritual guides of mankind. As
said, the “bull’s-eye” suddenly brings to light the ghastly and malig¬
nant face of the midnight robber and assassin. The wondrous and un¬
answerable evidences of another life succeeding this, without a mo¬
ment’s interval, have suddenly quickened the dormant respectabilities of
this world from their negation al state into one of venomous hostility.
Have roused the lethargic clergyman, who mistakes for holiness the
accurate and regular performance of ritual. The sleek and zanus-
faced lawyer, who has been so long in the habit of turning black into
white, and vice versa, that he ends by believing nothing. The star¬
gazer in his observatory, who passes his life in peeping through mi¬
crometers at worlds of which, after all, he can make nothing worth men¬
tioning, and by dint of sounding Space and summing Time, can ap¬
preciate little beyond these two natural conditions—the well-to-do man
with a good digestion, whose soul is in his belly—the vain litterateur
who worships intellect, and, cased in chain-armour of syllogism, rejects
all influences which cannot penetrate it, and scorns the much greater
man whose plain understanding is satisfied with obeying the dictates of
a loving and self-sacrificing will. All these they rouse to do battle in a
body against that dreadful night-mare, an immortality outside
of the light and heat of the natural sun—the loves and the wis¬
doms of this world. And really, when one recollects that with the
wisest of them, if they ever form a conception of a future, it
amounts to nothing better than existence as a floating bubble, an
impalpable idealism, without parts or passions, so some excuse may be
made for them; or even, if they reach eternal singing upon cold clouds,
that may seem to many scarcely preferable to total annihilation, espe¬
cially to the thoroughgoing materialist or man of pleasure whose motto
is “ Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die.” I do not think that
this is by any means an overdrawn picture of the actual world in which
we are living. Conceive, then, the revolution it must undergo if Spirit¬
ualism is to progress. It must progress, and the infidel will have to
give in before it; and in proportion as men become aware that their
secret thoughts are open to their next-door neighbour recently deceased
•—however unwilling they may be that it should be so—will grow the
conviction that the Supreme Spirit Himself may be something more
than a myth, in short, may be a witness of our transactions. Hitherto
He has been practically ignored as too incomprehensible and remote an
abstraction to enter into calculation. The very words uttered three
thousand years ago by the Psalmist are strictly applicable to these
times, “Does God see? Is there knowledge in the Most High? ” But
Spiritualism is about to demonstrate to mortals that He is near to
every one of us.....
Secondarily, there is the grand fact of their manifestation, and the
proof it bears with it of continuous life and immortality. Nothing is
likely to be more damaging to. the self-righteousness of sectarian creeds
than their proclamation of practical good as true religion—their decla¬
mations against the hypocrisy of men—their declarations of the absolute
inefficiency of science {i.e., physical science only) to satisfy the soul of
man—of the absence of real charity in the world—of its ostentation,
emptiness, and vanities—of the iniquity of class supremacy in many
respects—of the grevious waste of that life, which, while it is sustained
by the continuous labour of the poor, makes no return which can benefit
them, and derives no benefit to itself from its privileges and immunities.
"While, then, they differ in other matters, they are consistent in these,
and their authority as spirits must so far have a great influence in the
course of time; and, added to the fact of another life immediately suc¬
ceeding the dissolution of the body, must eventually have an immense
effect in changing the motives of action for the better.
The time is coming when mortal man, catching through the “ gates
ajar” continual glimpses of the eternal life to be, and being thus
awakened to a sense of the shadowy, fugitive, but probationary nature of
this, will begin seriously to ask himself the question, “ What am I
doing? What have I been doing all my life? I held converse last
night in a seance room with one whom I knew while he was on earth—
who took no thought for that morrow which awaits every one born into
this world, but much of the morrow as far as this world was concerned
—who now laments that he did no good except to himself, and made no
preparation for the after-state, and so finds himself lower than many
whom he looked down upon here. He sat for half a century at the
receipt of customs, amassed great wealth, which he could not enjoy even
here, and knew not who should gather it; better for him if he had had
any motive for his industry better than self-love; and now he warns me,
whatever I do, to do it mainly for the good of others.” And so on, through
the whole range of misapplied activities, beginning with the aims and
objects of crowned heads down to the living skeleton, who, in order to
look upon one penny more added to a useless store, denies himself food
and fire till he is found starved to death or murdered. Of course these
remarks are merely old common-place, which have furnished the
preacher his materials for centuries, but they will now be brought home
to men, and seen as they have never yet been seen in the awful light of
the instant future—which will cast all the passions and actions, and
dazzling shows of this actual world into the shadow of death.
A general survey of the phenomena, their origin, and progress, fur¬
nishes us with data for forming certain definite conclusions.
(1.) Spirits having presented themselves on earth uninvited, and pretty
nearly in every part of it, it seems admissible that so vast a movement must
have acted by the permission at least, if not the express appointment, of Divine
Providence.
(2.) If there be among them evil spirits, Antichristian in their doctrines,
these at all events, by the demolition of creeds which have misled men since
the earliest ages of Christianity, are doing a great work, and preparing by
their moral teachings, whether compulsory or voluntary, the way for that
purer Christianity—that church “ without spot or wrinkle or any such thing.”
(3.) The naked fact of the manifestations is in itself—whatever the character
of the spirits themselves may be—all-sufficient to revolutionise the present
gross and materialised state of the world. The dazzling proofs of Immor¬
tality—immediately after so-called death—which they offer to the unbelieving
masses must lead all men to weigh their actions in the balance of reason and
justice by the light of awakened conscience, and in the presence of those
innumerable witnesses who they must now believe are continually around
them, and to ask themselves the vital question—“Am I, or am I not, an
unprofitable servant ? Am I with reference to the immediate life which is to
succeed this placing my talent out at interest ? Do they see the shame of my
nakedness, or am I weaving for myself the white rob of purity ? And if
hitherto the Omniscience and Omnipresence of God have been inconceivable to
me a natural man, so that I have more or less been in the habit of 1 living
without Him in the world, and following the devices and desires of the flesh
and the mind,’ can I any longer resist the evidence afforded me by spirits
manifesting through mortal mediums, which spirits are doubtless. them¬
selves mediums subordinate to higher spirits, and these to higher still—that
there is a vast hierarchy of spirits and angels ministering to mortal man
—the telegraphic wires along which every moment is flashed with lightning
speed and unerring certainty knowledge of all things whatsoever, to the
highest appointed minister of the Supreme ?” And ought not this to be
sufficient to rouse the world to a sense of-the absolute fatuity of living as
though a man’s conscience were a sealed book to all but himself ?
(4.) That if evil spirits are doing the negative work of destruction, which
is permitted for ulterior purposes of good, there are, on the other hand, a vast
number who are working great positive good, as healing mediums.
(5.) And that the practical morality urged by all and every class of spirits
as indispensable, is greatly superior to the faith “ held in unrighteousness,”
which constitutes the staple of most creeds, and is absurdly supposed to
cleanse from that unrighteousness, though men ought to remember the words
of the prophet, “ He will by no means clear the guilty,” and the words of the
Master, “ By their fruits ye shall know them.”
(6.) There is good reason to believe that only the lower spirits can manifest
themselves on the earth-plane—their bodies, though spiritual, being grosser,
and more nearly allied to the material body of mortals than those of the
higher; hence their power over matter, and ability to produce the physical
phenomena, such as rappings and levitations. Also, that if they discourse, on
elevated themes, it is owing to their being influenced by spirits of a higher order.
The Countess of Caithness will leave London for Barrogill Castle in
the North of Scotland next week.
The reception of the National Association of Spiritualists to the
Baron and Baroness von Vay, will take place on Friday, August 10th.
Last Tuesday night Mrs. Makdougall Gregory gave a reception to
Spiritualistic and other friends at 21, Green-street, Grovenor-square,
London.
Mrs. Weldon, of Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London, has
received per Mr. W. J. Colville, for the benefit of the Orphanage, 12s.
for photographs of herself and Katie, 4s. on profit of sale of Mr. Gill’s
drawings, and 4s. collected in small sums. She writes:—“ I wish I
had a few more like Mr. Colville to work for me.”
We have received a large consignment of Spiritualistic books from
America this week, including a plentiful supply of Miss Lizzie Doten’s
inspirational poems, Mr. Epes Sargent’s Planchette and Proof Palpable
of Immortality, Dr. Eugene Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and
Modern Spiritualism, and complete sets of the works of Andrew Jackson
Davis. For the convenience of the public, we have heretofore imported
copies of almost all the books on Spiritualism published in the United
States, but henceforth intend to have nothing to do with any but those
of good quality.
30
spiitiTuALi^.
July 20, 1877.
July 20, 1877.
THE SPIHITUALIST.
31
ON CERTAIN ANOMALIES IN MESMERIC PHENOMENA.
BY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMBS.
Most investigators of the phenomena of mesmerism must
have occasionally observed certain remarkable anomalies
exhibited during what is called the sleep-waking state.
More particularly are these anomalies displayed when ex¬
periments are made in which the different senses play their
part, but perhaps the most remarkable deviation from rule
occurs in the sense of hearing. A sensitive during the
mesmeric sleep may be apparently deaf to the loudest noises,
and yet hear a whisper from his mesmeriser or other person
placed en rapport with him.
Many years ago, at the request of a medical friend
practising at Dover, I attended one of his patients who had
been confined to her bed for some years. She had lost the
use of her limbs, with the exception of the right forearm,
of which she could make some use, although unable to move
her hand to her head. The eyes, distorted by an upward
and double squint, were kept constantly bandaged, and she
had entirely lost the use of her voice. Any sudden loud
noise, such as the slamming of a door, would immediately
throw the patient into a state of insensibility; the whole
body then became perfectly rigid, and had more the appear¬
ance of a statue than of a living person. This state would
sometimes last for several hours. The mere raising of her
head from the horizontal position would produce the same
effect.
I succeeded at the first attempt in producing the mesmeric
sleep, and to the great surprise and delight of her friends
she was able to answer my questions put in a low whisper.
The family always dreaded the occasion when a salute was
to be fired from the heights, for at the sound of the first gun
the sufferer was instantly thrown into the cataleptic trance
already described.
I attended daily for some time, until one morning I heard
from the patient’s friends that a salute was to be fired at a
certain hour. Here, I thought, would be a test indeed of
the depth and value of the mesmeric sleep. I accordingly
attended and mesmerised the sensitive about half an hour
before the time appointed for the salute, and waited with
intense interest for the great guns to speak. At last the
firing commenced, and was finished without the sleeper
taking the slightest notice of it by start or shudder, or by a
quiver of a muscle of the face. She conversed with me the
whole time, deaf to the loudest and most startling sounds,
alive to my lowest whisper. Anyone who has ever heard a
salute fired from Dover heights can appreciate the value of
this test.
How can this insensibility to sound be accounted for?
The first gun made me start, but evidently there was no
sympathy of the sense of hearing between the sensitive and
me. On the other hand there was decided sympathy of
sensation, for if anyone pricked my hand with a pin, or
pinched my arm she would instantly feel it. This patient
eventually recovered her health, strength, and use of her
limbs, and is, I believe, still alive.
Another of my sensitives, who during the sleep could not
hear the voices of people conversing in the room, would
complain of the creaking of a person’s boots as the wearer
was walking up and down stairs, and in this I sympathised
most heartily, that sound being especially irritating to me.
During experiments with my clairvoyant, alluded to in my
article of July 6th, I always requested my friends to avoid
making any remarks, even in a whisper, as to the nature of
the tests they were about to try, for I judged that although
the sensitive might bear the report of a pistol fired closed to
her without flinching, it did not necessarily follow that a
whisper might not convey an impression to her brain. In
fact, it would appear that sensitives may be deaf to some
sounds, and alive to others, like any man of absent mind.
The same anomalies have been observed with respect to the
sense of touch'or feeling. With some sensitives, some parts of
the body are found to be insensible to pain, the other parts
retaining their sensibility, and mesmerisers are able in some
cases to deprive one limb of sensation, and retain it in other
parts of the body. The general rule, however, is that when
a person has been often mesmerised for the express purpose
of rendering him insensible to pain—for instance, in view of
a pending operation—the whole body becomes insensible.
I Some practitioners have observed that the head and face are
the last portions ^of the frame to lose their sensibility; this
has not been noticed by me.
Sympathy of taste, of sensation, and of smell, is common;
sympathy of hearing and of sight I have seldom observed ;
and all these sympathies may possibly be referred to, or be
greatly assisted by, what is called “mind or thought¬
reading.”
Dr. Engledue, of Southsea, near Portsmouth, published
many years ago in a local journal, the following case of
sympathy of feeling, the case being the more remarkable
from the fact that the mesmeriser at the time of the ex¬
periment was not near his patient. He says :—“ During my
patient’s sleep a gentleman requested me to accompany him
into the library, which adjoined the drawing room. He
closed the doors and then said, (I wish to tickle your ear
with the end of a pen.’ My right ear was tickled for one
minute. We then returned to the drawing-room, and found
the patient rubbing her left ear upon her shoulder. Will it
be believed that the experiment was considered a failure by
the originator, because the patient did not exhibit sympathetic
sensation in the right ear ?”
Perhaps if Dr. Engledue had quoted Dr. Marshall Hall,
and referred his patient’s mistake to “reflex action” his
friend might have been amused, if not convinced.
As a proof that sympathy of taste as well as of feeling
may exist between the mesmeriser and his patient, although
they may not be in immediate contact, I may here relate the
following experiment:—“ I formed a chain of six or seven
persons, the sensitive being at one end of the chain, and the
person tasting at the other end and outside of the door; the
patient then named the substance tasted. This experiment,
however, rarely succeeds, and success or non-success
apparently depends upon the peculiar constitutions of the
I different individuals forming the chain; perhaps the pre-
| sence of one or two what are called “ positive persons ”
i might prevent the transmission of the sympathy of either
| taste or feeling.
I have often heard opponents of mesmerism assert that
| such and such mesmeric phenomena were unknown to
physiologists, and therefore that the so-called sensitives were
| impostors. In a letter which I received many years ago
| from one of the best known physiologists of the day, are the
following remarks, which appear to me to be quite apropos
| to my present subject. My correspondent says:—“ In
| spontaneous somnambulism and spontaneous catalepsy,
patients seem quite deaf or blind, and yet if the patient be
a mother, she will give proof of hearing or seeing her infant.
Nothing is more common in disease than for one thing to
| make an impression and another none. Palsied patients who
| will bear pinching and cutting, feel warmth or cold so acutely
as to cry out. There is not a single point in mesmerism that
| is not analogous in all its particulars to points familiar to
medical men, independent of mesmerism.”
There is also a different class of anomalies in cases where
there is a transposition of the senses from their natural
organs to other parts of the body. For instance, cases have
been published both by French and English writers on mes¬
merism, where the senses of hearing and sight were trans¬
ferred to the stomach, and a medical friend assured me that he
had seen one case where transposition of sight was observed
I in a patient who had never been mesmerised. In this case
| the patient would place a letter just received on the pit of
| her stomach and read it, all light at the time being excluded
| from the room.
My friend Major Buckley had a sensitive, a young man,
| who would place printed or written matter under his foot,
I and thus read it. Other mesmeric sensitives have in my
j presence placed books and written sentences at the back of
| their heads and on their foreheads, and have been equally
| successful. Dr. Teste, a French physician, and author of
11 a useful and interesting work on mesmerism, mentions a
i| case where his patient heard, saw, read, and tasted by means
1 of the hands and feet—vide Dr. Teste on Animal Magnetism^
II translated by Dr. Spillan, page 126.
I am well aware that these observations on mesmeric
11 phenomena will appear comparatively uninteresting to the
[! generality of your readers, who for so many years past have
ki been almost surfeited by the various reports on the marvels
32
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 20, 1877,
of Spiritualism. Still, from the remarks you have occa- u
sionally made in leading articles, it is probable that some j;
Spiritualists are likely to be interested in any facts which !v
may seem to throw light upon the possible, or even pro- |<|
bable, connection between some of the phenomena of mes- m
merism and some of the phenomena of Spiritualism, and f|j
also as regards the respective conditions of mesmeric jcj
sensitives and physical and trance mediums during their ||j
state of unconsciousness. ^1
However, these matters are more within the domain of in
the physiologist. I do not pretend to understand the j;j
modus operand^ the why and the wherefore of such appa- m
rently contradictory phenomena. k|
I merely report some of my own experiences, and the I j
observations of more experienced mesmerisers, leaving it |||
to those who have been scientifically trained to account jjj
for what I have termed “certain anomalies observed in jjj
mesmeric phenomena.” m
Tottenham, July, 1877. , . K j
THE “ALBANYLAW JOURNAL” ON THE RECENT PROSE- fl
CUTIONS OF MEDIUMS. j j
To the Editor of the “ Banner of Light.” j j
The Albany Lam Journal is a weekly record of the law j |
and the lawyers. It has been published during seven years, j j
It contains recent decisions of the Courts, notes of im- j j
portant cases, reviews and criticisms of law books, legal j j
essays and forensic lectures, and discussing, as it does, judi- j j
ciously, without fear or favour, whatever matters it treats j j
upon, is a genial and valuable assistant to judges and j j
lawyers. In its issue of June 9 th, under the head of jfj
“ Current Topics,” it expresses its views of the recent prose- j j
cutions of certain spiritual mediums before the English I j
courts. While the matter is yet fresh in the minds of your j j
readers, it may be interesting to observe the impression it H j
makes upon an editor who views it not as a friend or oppo- j j
nent of Spiritualism, but simply as a student of history and j j
as a lawyer. It is hereto subjoined. A. E. Gr. j j
Hyde Park, Mass. Hi
The people of to-day are given to criticising severely I j
certain judicial eccentricities of a century or two ago, among j j
which the prosecution of old women for witchcraft is one. j j
The feeling is so strong upon the subject that the proceedings \)\
against those unfortunate women who suffered for that j j
alleged offence are considered to be a blot upon the otherwise j j
unblemished record of the courts of Massachusetts, and j j
the belief in the existence of such an offence, and the asser- j j
tion of the duty of the courts to punish it, detracts from j j
the reputation of the good and learned Sir Matthew Hale, j j
Yet the judicial records of to-day show prosecutions which, j j
if we mistake not, another generation will regard in about I j
the same light as we look upon the Salem witchcraft trial, j j
We refer to the recent prosecutions in England against what j j
are known as spiritual mediums. The ground upon which j j
these proceedings are instituted is that the defendants j j
violate certain laws designed to promote good order, and to j j
suppress a class of vagrants who foster petty crimes but do j j
not directly commit them. The prosecution of Slade, under j j
the statute aimed at what are known as fortune-tellers and j j
wizards, failed on account of a technical difficulty; but a I j
subsequent one against one Lawrence, under a statute relat- n
ing to false pretences, succeeded. In this case defendant j
was convicted of attempting to obtain money upon the false j
pretence that he had power to communicate with the spirits 1
of deceased and other persons; and also that he had power ; j
to produce and cause to be present such spirits, in a j
materialised or other form; and also that divers musical j
instruments, by the sole means of such spirits so caused to j
be present, produced musical and other sounds. The com- j
plainant had paid one shilling to witness the performance, j
The Court of Queen’s Bench upon a writ of error sustained i
the conviction. That they should have done so is remarkable, j
The prosecution of these individuals is undoubtedly popular, j
but is not therefore justifiable. The real reason for it is that j |
they, in playing upon the superstitious feelings of the better jjj
classes, are trespassing upon a preserve which, until lately, n1
was supposed to belong exclusively to the clerical order; and
these proceedings are brought as a substitute for an action of
ejectment.
ROSICRUOIAN HYMN.
f Chanted at the stage termed “ The Passing of the River.”)
I.
Would I were gifted
With power to see
Of Earth’s first ages
The mystery,
And that were uplifted
Time’s curtain to me—
The centuries’ veil—
And disclosed were the pages
Of those who saw
The Patriarch sitting his tent before,
That wavered in the gale.
With long board hoar
Which o’er lands still wet with the Flood set sail,
Chilly and raw.
II.
Then should I clearly,
Much understand,
Which now by mortal
May not be scanned,
Known when more nearly
Sky stood to Land,
And angels came free
From Heaven’s high portal,
And spake with men
Of things and of secrets now shrouded all
By Use’s pall.
Fate—Mutability—
Strong powers now covered in mystery
Were manifest then.
III.
Observation ill replaces
All the knowledge firm and true,
Which Mankind’s primaeval races
From the lips of angels drew.
Science, dimly now conceiving
Truths and wisdom known of old,
And half-doubting, half-believing,
Fears t’ advance with footstep bold.
Lo ! the mighty circle closing !
Round to Past the Future rolls,
When in Truth’s fair light reposing
Steadfast joy shall bathe our souls.
dfforresponneiice.
[0 rent freedom isgiven lo correspondents, who sometimes expressopinions diametrically opposed
to those of this ioumal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should be keptby the writers.}
AMATEUR CONJURING.
StR,—You have so often and so well pointed to the difficulties which
surround mediums, and the liability of the most innocent man to
persecution, that I make no excuse for referring to an inconvenience
which alike presses hardly on the genuine medium and the sitters.
I make no reference to properly conducted seances, in which the
medium is protected against violence or interference by any venturesome
sceptic, but to the other seances, where practically any person who
induces the medium to believe that he is a friend may prevail upon him
to grant admittance.
Cases have recently come under my own personal observation, and
have also been confirmed by hearsay evidence, in which persons in the
circle who wish to be considered as “mediums,” during a genuine
manifestation, have set up a little business on their own account, and
simulated with a mechanical contrivance a “ spirit control ” which has
manifested itself tangibly and audibly to the sitters. The medium has
been entirely unconscious of this fraud, and, as the race of men to
which he belongs is not famous for worldly sagacity, may permit its
continuance for an indefinite period without the warning of those who
are his truest friends. The inconvenience to sitters is great. They go
to see a genuine manifestation through a medium who they know to be
respectable, and in whom they feel perfect confidence. When that
mutual confidence is established, it is, to say the least, disagreeable for
them to be the passive witnesses of what their common sense tells them
is an impudent deceit.
Some months ago, at the East-end of London, there is strong reason
to believe that a somewhat similar fraud was practised, for which the
poor medium, who was an innocent person, had to suffer. For this he
must himself be blamed, as he should have exercised greater care in the
admission of persons to his seances. The opportunity is too easy for a
dishonest person to simulate genuine phenomena Jn the dark, with
nobody to detect him but a simple-minded and confiding medium, and
a mixed circle of sitters. Those who are unacquainted with the
phenomena will rush at once to the unjust conclusion that the medium
himself was a tacit accomplice in the deceit; and some scene in the
police-court may again be the result, which would be most disparaging
to the whole subject in the eyes of the general public. It is, therefore,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
33
July 20, 1877.
for the genuine medium to protect himself, and to ensure that the
manifestations which occur through him are the only ones which take
place during any given seance. A neglect of common-sense precaution
may lead at a future time to the cruel persecution of an unfortunate,
though incautious medium.
Such considerations lead me very much to coincide with Mr. A. H.
Louis, whose admirable remarks were uttered at a recent discussion
meeting of the British National Association of Spiritualists, that
mediums need some intermediary between themselves and the public,
and that a really efficient system of protection of the genuine medium,
and chastisement of the impostor, should be carried out. The practical
difficulties of this plan, I admit, are immense, and. faineants will
consider them as insuperable, but sooner or later mediums will see
that they will have to work for real protection against the enemies who
seek to a detect” them, and the “friends” who fraudulently imitate
them, in some place where they may be ensured safety, and where the
sitters, on the other hand, may not be exposed to the contact of a sham
ghost. The British National Association of Spiritualists is the only
place in England where such conditions are observed, and where a
purity of scientific spirit, and a calm honesty of investigation are to be
found. Central organisation will serve alike to protect the medium,
and to encourage the scientific investigator by the thought that any
fraud or deception practised by any person will be at once detected by
practised eyes and ears, and as quickly punished. The Seance and
Research Committees are doing good work, and it is to be hoped that
no slackening of energy will occur, to permit the science again to
relapse into the condition of the “pre-association age.”
C. Carter Blake.
DR. SLADE IN HOLLAND.
Sir,—There is scarcely any subject nowadays so much talked
about, criticised, ridiculed, and abused, as Spiritualism. It occupies
so many minds, it stirs the feelings of so many hearts, it changes the
religious opinions of so many men, and thus meets all at once so much
opposition that it certainly deserves close investigation. Yet
Spiritualists everywhere gain ground, and scarcely a day passes but
others are converted to this noble truth. At all events, this has been
the case in Holland, and a great many would never have thought of
studying the phenomena of Spiritualism if its adherents had been let
alone by opponents. It is very remarkable that at a time when ma¬
terialism finds so many followers, especially among the more en¬
lightened and educated classes of society, Spiritualism is spreading so
fast.
Perhaps it would be interesting to the readers of your paper to know
what facts have been witnessed recently at the Hague. Being a
Dutchman, and a student-in-law at Leyden University, it is with a
feeling not unmixed with dread that I venture to write on this in¬
teresting subject in a language which, though not altogether strange
tt> me, is yet far from being familiar. Therefore I appeal to your
readers to kindly overlook faults.
About half a year ago I first had the pleasure of making the
acquaintance of the distinguished medium, Dr. Slade. During the
last six months he has favoured me with a sitting nearly every day.
To record all the wonderful phenomena I have witnessed would fill
pages, so that the most striking only will now be related. The well-
known slate-writing struck me at first as the most remarkable thing I
ever saw ; the more so as we tried the experiment in different ways.
First, by holding the slate under the table in the usual manner, then
on the top of it, afterwards over my head; later, by taking a double
slate fastened by hinges, and putting a little bit of pencil between the
two. Dr. Slade placed this under my arm, and on opening- it we
found a most interesting message, covering the whole of both sides. A
few days later I bought a similar kind of double slate at Leyden, and
put inside a bit of pencil myself. The whole was fastened with string,
wrapped in several sheets of paper, and then fastened again with another
string. Taking this to the medium’s rooms at the Hague, I told him
my wish to try whether the spirits could write something while the
slate wras in the eondition just mentioned. This request was imme¬
diately complied with by the medium, and putting the whole parcel
at the opposite end of the table we joined our hands, waiting for re¬
sults. After a few minutes the parcel moved a little, and we heard
distinctly a kind of scratching noise, similar to that of a person writing
rapidly. When this noise ceased, three raps were produced, and on
cutting the strings and opening the slate we found, to our utter as¬
tonishment, both sides covered with beautiful writing. I took the
slate home, and had two panes of glass cut so as to fit them, and now
keep the message as a grateful souvenir of spirit power.
Several times I obtained writing in Dutch and in Greek, both of
which languages are unknown to the medium. The communications
were of a superior order, and written so correctly that they proved
thorough knowledge of the languages. The same phenomena have
occurred in the presence of several friends, and a great many would
testify for themselves if they were better acquainted with English;
but unhappily there are not many in our country who (though they
understand it) are able to write in the same.
Our materialisation seances have been of a very striking character,
especially as the medium sat at the same table with me, and he did not
fall into a trance, or make use of dark cabinets or curtains, or any¬
thing of that kind. It would do a great deal of good to the cause of
Spiritualism if other mediums would try to develops themselves in
this direction, as cabinets are reasonably a source of much evil-talking
for unbelievers, and quite naturally so. It is very difficult indeed, if
not next to impossible, to ascertain what is going on whilst the medium
remains in a dark cabinet, and is masked by heavy curtains from the
eyes of the sitters. Our seances for materialisation purposes were
never held in total darkness, but in subdued light, more or less, accord¬
ing to the wishes expressed by the controlling powers.
! One night, about the middle of May, I requested to see a member
of my family who died about five years ago, and whose face is deeply
engraven in my memory. The room was not so dark but that every
object could be distinguished easily. We joined hands, placing them
on an uncovered table, and there was nothing in the room but the
ordinary furniture. While we were engaged in an earnest conversa¬
tion on different subjects, all of a sudden a mist was seen exactly
opposite us, and then it vanished. A minute later it formed itself
| again, and now more distinctly, so that the outlines of the face could
be distinguished.
The third time I recognised my departed friend immediately—
the same colour of hair and eyes, the same nose, the same mouth,
every little feature precisely the same as during her life here below.
| The figure bowed and nodded kindly to us, whilst the sweetest of
| smiles lit up her angelic face. The vision reappeared several times
during an interval of ten minutes, vanishing generally after a few
| seconds, in order to collect more power. She shook my hand heartily,
and patted my cheek repeatedly, as if to show her affection. That
same night we saw her better still, but the whole form seemed to be
enveloped in a kind of white transparent drapery, which she allowed
| me to touch, and to keep in my hand for a few seconds. Then it
vanished altogether, leaving us well pleased at having witnessed such
I splendid proofs of what spirits can do.
i These materialisations have often been repeated, and every time
I i with better results, so that we have been able to see hands in broad
! I daylight. There are still many facts worthy of mention which I have
II had the privilege of seeing, but it would take up too much time and
1 i space to relate them all. At another time I hope to give an account
of some interesting phenomena respecting “ apports ” which happened
! in the presence of a friend. A. R.
Leyden. -  —
THE TOWER GHOST.
Sir,—I suppose you will admit that, as a general rule, those who
were present when anything unusual happened would be better able to
| give a correct account of it than those who have only heard the story
at second or third hand.
| This observation applies, I think, forcibly to the story of “ The
Tower Ghost,” as given in The Spiritualist, vol. x., p. 305.
\ | The late Mr. Edmund Lenthal Swift, many years keeper of the regalia,
| in his own account of the strange appearance witnessed by himself
I and Mrs. Swifte in the Jewel Office in the year 1817, says that the de¬
ll tails of the story, which Professor Gregory had adopted on the authority
II of Sir David Brewster, “present a curious assemblage of errors.”
11 Among many other errors that he disposes of I find that the vision was
in no way connected with Mrs. Swifte’s death, nor did it even affect her
)j health. The appearance to the sentinel was not on the same night as
i that seen by Mr. and Mrs. Swifte. Mr. Swifte did not hear from the
(j Serjeant that such appearances are not uncommon in the Tower. He
| did not attend a Court Martial on the sentinel, nor give any evidence in
)j his favour. He was never in any sense a Colonel.
(j Persons who wish to see the story as told by Mr. Swifte will find it,
| i together with his answers to questions put by Mr. De Morgan and
(! others, in Notes and Queries for the years 1860 and 1861. 2nd series,
(| vol. x., pp. 192, 236, 277, 291, 373., and 477. And vol. xi., page 15.
u W. Whiteab.
)j High-street, Hornsey. — ’■■■
\j MYSTERIOUS RAPPINGS.
(! Sir,—When alone last evening I heard on the floor about a yard from
(| the spot where I stood, a shower of short, sharp raps; these raps were
1 repeated several times. I cannot think of any natural cause to which I
(| can attribute the sounds. I was too much alarmed to be able to ask any
(j questions and to calm myself; I sat down to read, and the raps ceased.
)j Will you tell me whether these showers of short sharp raps are usual
(j with spirits, and how I should be likely to induce a repetition?
)i An Inquirer.
) | Seyenoaks.
)j [If these noises were due to spirit-agency, holding a circle in the same
(I room in accordance with the instructions on our last advertisement page
(j would be likely to induce their recurrence.—Ed.]
AN APPARITION.
Sir,—I beg to forward you an account of a materialisation which
| took place in Bristol. It was first related to me by a friend of the
I seeress, and afterwards by the young lady herself. It is particularly
valuable as showing that the spontaneous and evoked phenomena are
| analogous.
The young lady in question, who knew nothing of Spiritualism, hap¬
pened to go into a bedroom after dark, and without taking a light, and,
on looking towards one part of the room, perceived what appeared to
her to be a sort of luminous rotating ball. She, imagining it some
|| peculiar effect of light and shadow, looked towards the window to
| ascertain the cause; but, on turning again to the spot, the ball had in
j that short space of time evolved itself into the half figure in profile of a
|| very old woman; the yellow, parchment-coloured skin and shabby, old-
i! fashioned black silk cloak were distinctly visible. The fact of the figure
j being only half formed convinced her that it was no earthly visitor, and,
|| understanding nothing of the philosophy of Spiritualism, she was, of
,i course, too terrified to wait for its full development, so rushed, almost
| fainting, into the next room, crying, “ Mother, save me!”
| As soon as she described the cause of her agitation, the mother (who
herself had witnessed a materialisation while attending a death-bed)
I soothed her by saying simply, “ ’Twas only poor old Mrs. R  and
|i this hypothesis was afterwards confirmed by another witness, who had
i j also known the old lady during her earth life. The next day the young
j lady related her singular experience to a friend of mine, asking his
II opinion. He laughingly inquired what she had taken in the evening,
34
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 20, 1877.
and, on her replying “ Ginger beer # only, told her it was his belief that
the phantom existed solely in “ her own silly little head.’’ Since that
time, however, he has turned the full powers of his broad, deep-thinking
mind to the study of Spiritualism, and has, consequently, pronounced a
very different verdict on the phenomena witnessed by his young friend, j
• Singular to relate, on only one other occasion did this lady ever
become the subject of a kindred experience, and that was simply a
strange case of prevision. I hope the above unvarnished statement of
facts may prove interesting to some of your numerous readers.
Eliza Boucher. j
July 13 th. — 
THE ULTIMATE CONSTITUTION OP MATTER.
Sir,—Surely if Professor Tyndall finds in matter the “promise and j
potency of every form of life ” he cannot regard it as an “ hypothetical
dead something,” as Mr. Massey pnts it, but as the active cause, source j
and principle of all phenomena or effects whatsoever, life and mind
included, as affirmed by Bacon, and so regarded by Mr. Lewes, in his
Problems of Life and Mind, and as explained by myself so many years
ago in certain letters to Miss Martineau which seem to be forgotten.
Mr. Massey seems to think that matter, as a “real, self-subsistent
substance or entity,” is an assumption; but if so, all opinions
are assumptions; and in asking “What is truth?” and getting no
answer, we must abandon philosophy altogether—Spiritualism included j
—for pure scepticism and a mental chaos. Then life would indeed be
“ of such stuff as dreams are made of,” for there would be no such thing
as eternal truth, or permanent and universal principles; which notion may
indeed be well called “ metaphysics.”
Dr. Blake thinks that to say that we have nothing to do with what j
“ things are in themselves” is “ a sweeping annihilation of all science.”
But did not Newton say this P Does not Tyndall say this ? And j
Huxley P And did not Bacon say the same ? And did not the great
Humboldt say the same? With respect to the latter, Dr. Blake’s
opinion is not that of men of science in general. No man of his time
possessed a fuller knowledge or more free and broader views than Hum¬
boldt. The excitement about the Cosmos at the time it appeared was j
very great, and Humboldt was then eighty years of age. It would be j
wrong to let Dr. Blake’s opinion pass unnoticed.
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S. |
Boulogne.  
DR. CARPENTER AND SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Asa reader of The Spiritualist, I may perhaps be allowed to h
say that I am much pleased with the sensible manner in which you are ] J
treating the utterances of Dr. Carpenter, et hoc genus omne. Yet we i /
should look upon him with leniency. I remember a few years ago that I ]
considered the man to be mad as Drs. Carpenter and Forbes Winslow j j
think the Spiritualists, who first broached to me the facts of animal ! (
magnetism. I for one prefer this term to “ Mesmerism,” as Mesmer |(
was a man who but gave prominence to an ancient science. Since then jj
I have had large and peculiar experience, but yet my mind cannot give j (
its assent to the materialisation seances which you record, some of which j j
read like romance. I have only personal acquaintance with two who ] j
have seen these phenomena in London and Manchester, and their j(
reports are very unsatisfactory. Moreover, all attempts on my part at I (
getting materialisations have failed, but these have not been denied as I >
phenomena occurring in the lower spiritual world. Hence Dr. Carpen- jj
ter is doubtless quite honest in denying a Spiritualism which his intel- I (
lectual nature cannot receive; but he seems to me to fall into the great j j
fault of speaking ex cathedra of subjects with the facts of which he is j j
evidently unacquainted, and intellectually incapacitated to speak upon, j (
as a man may be colour-blind or deficient in some other moral, intellec- j j
tual, or soul quality. j j
There are few of the recorded facts of animal magnetism which my j)
mind cannot now accept as true, although all my experience has fallen i j
upon high-trance, unveiling the entire moral and spiritual nature of the j]
other world, and accompanied at times with proof which seems without j)
gainsay. Here I may say a word upon one of your last articles. In jj
the case of my sensitive my mind has no biological power; the sensitive i (
remembers all her experiences, but if I fill the vacant, body with j j
another soul (as is possible), nothing of this added experience is then j j
remembered, but totally different visions are related. Whether this j(
will also explain some parts of Gregory’s work I do not know. There j;
are few of the Biblical theories which have not been demonstrated to I j
me clairvoyantly. John Yarker. j\
• The Poplars, Burton-lane, Withington, Manchester. j j
THE EXPERIENCES OP THE REV. W. MI ALL.
Sir,—Will you allow me to give some account of my endeavours to
satisfy myself of the existence of the alleged phenomena of Spirit-
.ualism?
It occurs to me that there are probably others whose experience re¬
sembles mine, and if you or any of your correspondents should deem
it worth while to reply to this communication, the requirements of
many persons might be met, and their wishes gratified.
It is about two years since I began to give serious thought to the
subject. From the first I felt that the difficulties in the way of belief
were enormous. At the same time I felt that the evidence was in many
cases furnished by persons who, whether regarded as investigators, or as
reporters, were entitled to all respect and confidence. Had the alleged
facts been less extraordinary, and not so apparently subversive of
universally recognised laws, or had the questions involved been less
momentous, I might have been content to receive without further inquiry
the testimony thus furnished.
Under the circumstances, however, I felt that nothing short of
seeing ” could warrant “ believing.” To accumulate, under my own
observation, facts by which I might afterwards test current thepries, or
upon which I might base a theory of my own, seemed to me the most
natural mode of proceeding.
Upon this idea I have acted.
If up to the present time the results are not of a kind to produce con¬
viction, that circumstance, I venture to affirm, is not attributable to an
uncandid disposition of mind in relation to the subject. Could the
fact of communion with departed human spirits be established, or
even could the existence of unembodied spirits of any kind be demon¬
strated, it would seem to me that thus in the demolition of the materialist
theory a great gain would be secured. Nor would it distress or disturb
me if, believing in the reality of spiritual phenomena, I should be con¬
strained, on the strength of spirit testimony, to regard very many
generally received theological opinions and theories as erroneous. Of so
much I am convinced already.
These, however, are some of my experiences. For many months,
acting on the advice of Spiritualists, I have sat weekly “ in circle ” in
my own house. The members of the circle have been all that could be
wished as to their sentiments, both with regard to each other and to the
subject. Occasionally, in the hope of securing improved results, a
change of persons constituting the circle has been adopted. Hitherto
our experience has not been encouraging. The utmost that has oc¬
curred has been the “ tilting,” more or less violent, of a very small table,
which we could never feel quite certain was not produced unconsciously
by ourselves, and certain half-intelligent answers to questions, about the
origin of which we have been similarly dubious in by far the greater
number of cases, and always when the table was substantial and heavy
there have been no movements at all.
My experience when sitting with recognised mediums has been
scarcely more satisfactory.
Two or three instances, indeed, should be mentioned when the
phenomena were inexplicable, and only requiring to be repeated and
multiplied and varied, so that fuller opportunity for observing them
might be supplied, in order to constitute the data I am seeking. A slate
message on one occasion, and the appearance of certain human¬
like forms—when, however, the medium was not seen—on another, are
the chief of these.
But let me record instances of a different kind.
1. I attended a large meeting convened to witness manifestations
through an American medium. Folded papers for her to read were sent
up to her table by scores. I do not think that in any one instance she
succeeded in reading them, but when entranced she pointed to me and
described a spirit which she said she saw standing by me. I could not
identify the spirit, nor could any other person.
2. I called, in company with a friend, on a well-known medium,
whom I knew was unacquainted with either of us. She was influenced
by her two customary controls. Very obviously each made a guess from
our appearance and address as to our occupation and surroundings. In
each case the guess was ludicrously at fault. This medium, too, when
under control, professed to see spirits attendant upon me, but the
description failed to enable me to identify them.
3. On one occasion when a medium was sitting behind curtains in my
own house, certain manifestations were thought to occur, such as the
thrumming of instruments apparently beyond his reach, &c. I sug¬
gested that a large cage with open bars should be placed behind the
curtains, and he lie seated in it. To this he readily consented. The
experiment was tried on three occasions. On no occasion did anything
occur.
4. I went twice to a private seance with an eminent professional
medium, not now in this country. The “ manifestations ” were of the
feeblest and most unsatisfactory kind.
‘ 5. I went with a friend to the house of an accredited and well-known
professional medium. One other person was present. The medium
seemed convulsed. Nothing further occurred.
6. Very recently a professional medium, through whom it is reported
the most extraordinary phenomena are almost certain to occur when he
is present at a seance, joined the circle in my own house. The results
were absolutely nil. Not a creak was there or movement of any kind.
7. On one occasion I invited a Spiritualist, of whose probity I am
fully convinced, and who states that he never sits in circle without cer¬
tain and often most remarkable manifestations, to join my home circle;
This attempt to obtain some similar result was fruitless. Nothing
occurred.
I could add to these instances, but are not they sufficient to make it
evident that I must be sincerely desirous of enlightenment, and patient
withal, in that I am still striving to ascertain, examine, and accumu¬
late facts.
I ought to say, perhaps, that I have attended seances with Mr. Wil- '
liams and with Mr. Eglinton, when voices have been heard, furniture
has been moved, and many inexplicable circumstances have occurred;
but, then, this has always been in the dark, and, although I do not join
with some in ridicule of dark seances, and, indeed, admit that darkness
may be a reasonable condition of certain phenomena, yet I am obliged
to feel that, for an investigator like myself, a trifling circumstance in
the light is of more worth and weight than a much more wonderful one
in darkness.
I hope the intention of this letter will not be misinterpreted. I do
not write to suggest suspicion, but because I think such an experience
as mine should be frankly stated, and because I indulge the hope that
some advice may be elicited needed by others as well as by me, and the
adaption of which may conduct to better results.
Hitherto the literature of Spiritualism has seemed to me to furnish
incontestible evidence, if not of the spiritualistic interpretation of the
phenomena, yet of their occurrence. I can only regret that the results
Of personal investigation have not been concurrent.
William Miall.
’ Dalston, July 16th, 1877.
35
July 20, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST.
SPIRITUALISM IN NOTTINGHAM. j
Sir,—Mr. E. W.Wallis, missionary medium, of the East-end Spiritual |
Institution, a few weeks ago put himself in communication with the ]
committee of the Nottingham Spiritualists’ Society, which resulted in
his engagement for the evenings of June 28th, 29th, and 30th last.
During our existence as a society we have had visits from various j!
workers, but I think I can safely assert that none have given greater j J
satisfaction than our last visitor. The first stance was held at the house |'
of a lady who is much interested in Spiritualism, and it was well | (
attended. The subject was chosen by the company, and a remarkably j1
exhaustive and interesting address was given us. Questions were i ‘
invited, and put, and met with prompt replies. The control of an Indian j i
spirit was much appreciated, the singing in his native language being 1'
interesting. Other seances were held at the homes of inquirers on the i ]
Friday and Saturday evenings, which gave so much satisfaction that i
Mr. Wallis was invited to pay them a second visit for a few days the i1
following week. The Sunday evening meeting at the room in Church | ]
Gate was largely attended by the friends of the cause. The address i i
(subject chosen by the audience) was an admirable one, and deserved to j1
be reported in your pages. We feel sure that Mr. Wallis, were his |!
abilities or mediumship more widely known, would be more fully j i
engaged in the work for which he is so well qualified. He appears to j1
be deeply in earnest in his work, eloquent in his delivery, and reasonable j j
in his charges; we therefore feel that we can confidently recommend his j \
services to the friends desirous of pushing on our glorious faith. I say j ]
this on behalf of the committee. ] (
Last Monday, July 9th, the friends of both the Spiritual societies h
here met to partake of a social cup of tea, in the corridor of the refresh- | j
ment room at the Arboretum. It was a pleasant and harmonious i /
gathering. Over sixty persons sat down to tea, which was a very good |
one, and did credit to the ladies of the Tea Committee. The profits i
rather more than met all expenses. After tea a few friends joined in a j
game of croquet, whilst others perambulated the beautiful grounds of j
our Arboretum. At seven o’clock the Conference commenced. Mr. S. I
Addicott was elected to the chair. Although a firm believer, he was not ! |
connected with either section of Nottingham Spiritualists, and he sup- I {
posed that was why he had been selected to preside. He thought the j j
time had come when both parties might profitably meet together over a | (
social cup of tea, even if they could not meet for worship. Speeches !(
were also made by Messrs. Bilson, Herod, Hitchcock, Ashworth, Taylor, j (
and Mrs. Barnes, after which resolutions were passed to the effect that 11
it was desirable that another conference should be held at an early date |1
to consider the best steps to take to push on the cause in this district, j |
After a vote of thanks to the ladies and the chairman the proceedings j <
closed. J. A. ||
Nottingham, July 16th. 1
Mr. J. T. Rhodes, who for a long time worked actively in connection
with Spiritualism in Newcastle, now resides in Edinburgh.
Spiritualism is spreading in Folkestone. Regular seances are now I
held there in private, and the Folkestone News recently published some
strong evidence in favour of the subject.
An Apparition.—The Daily Telegraph of July 12th, in the course of
an article on the painful case of Fanny Stallard, says : “ To the police
officer who went to arrest the prisoner, she made no denial of the con¬
cealment, but always declared she had not killed the baby by any
violence. Her statement was that it was feeble and fretful; that when
she drew a flannel over its mouth it died, and that the stones she had
placed upon it had caused the bruises. Her pitiable state of mind may |
be gathered from what she said to the officer, ‘ I knew you had j
found the child, sergeant, for it appeared to me at the window at twelve I
o’clock, and that was about the time you picked it Up, wasn’t it V That
was the exact time, strangely enough, and there could be little doubt
about the verdict which must be delivered. After a deliberation of forty
minutes the jury found Fanny Stallard guilty, but strongly recom¬
mended her to mercy on account of her youth, her desertion by the
father of the child, and the general circumstances of the case.”
Mr. Spurgeon on Guardian Angels.—I have sometimes a thought I
which cheers me in distress; and was not an angel sent to strengthen
Christ in the garden ? How do you think the angel strengthened him ?
Why, by putting thoughts into Christ’s mind. He could not in any
other way; he could not strengthen him by a cordial, or by any physical
means; but by injecting thoughts. And so with us. There was a
temptation which might have led you astray; but God said—
“Gabriel, fly! there is a danger to one of my people; go and put
such a thought into his soul that when the danger comes he will j
say, ‘ Get thee behind me, Satan, I will have nothing to do with
sin.’ ” We have each of us a guardian angel to attend us; and if |
there be any meaning in the passage—“ In heaven the angels do
always behold the face of your father which is in heaven,” it means
that every person has a guardian spirit, and every Christian has
some angel who flies about him and holds the shield of God over his
brow, keeps his foot lest he should dash it against a stone—guards him,
controls him, manages him, injects thoughts, restrains evil desires, and
is the minister and servant of the Holy Ghost to keep us from sin, and
lead us to righteousness. Whether I am right or wrong I leave you to I
judge; but perhaps I have more angelology in me than most people. I j
know my imagination sometimes has been so powerful that I could
almost, when I have been alone at night, fancy I saw an angel fly by me;
and hear the movement of the cherubim as they pass swiftly by. How¬
ever, I take it that the text teaches us that angels have very much to do j
with God’s providence. For it says—“ And when the living creatures
went, the wheels went by them; and when the living creatures were |
lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up.” Let us bless God
that he has made angels ministering spirits to minister unto them that j
are heirs of salvation.—JReligio-Philosophical Journal. 1
Mr. John Lamont telegraphs to us from Liverpool that Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas Gales Forster have arrived there from the United States.
Mr. J. W. Lawrence is giving a weekly seance for trance-speaking
at the rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists.
Nothing is more deeply punished than the neglect of the affinities by
which alone society should be formed.—-Emerson.
Mr. Luther Colby, of Boston, U.S., informs us that the warm
welcome given in this country to General Grant has made a very
favourable impression in the United States.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago), says that it is about to
publicly consider the questions raised by Signor Rondi before the British
National Association of Spiritualists, about the treatment of mediums.
Current newspaper articles and letters about Spiritualism are kept
in scrap books in the library of the National Association of Spiritualists,
so those who wish such utterances permanently preserved for public use,
should post copies of newspapers containing the same to the secretary.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., has been elected an honorary member of
the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, which is the
most efficiently managed of all the local Spiritualistic Societies. Its rules
and constitution, the result of many years’ experience, are models in
their way, and would prove useful guides to new societies, or those now
in course of formation.
There have been a few unexpected delays in bringing out the new
edition of Professor Gregory’s Animal Magnetism, but the binding is
now so far advanced that it will be finished by to-morrow or Monday.
The book is a large one and well printed; it is also one of the most
moderate in price ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Transition Periods.—When the philosophic minds of the world
can no longer believe its religion, or can only believe it with modifica¬
tions amounting to an essential change of its character, a transitional
period commences, of weak convictions, paralysed intellects, and
growing laxity of principle, which cannot terminate until a renovation
has been effected in the basis of their belief, leading to the evolution of
some faith, whether religious or merely human, which they can really
believe : and when things are in this state, all thinking or writing
which does not tend to promote such renovation, is of very little value
beyond the moment.—John Stuart Mill.
The Queen’s Prize at Wimbledon.—The Duke of Cambridge pre¬
sented Jamieson the badge of his triumph, and congratulated him on his
success. Jamieson is a working cabinet-maker, and carries on business
in Liverpool. The result of the shooting verifies, with singular exacti¬
tude, a dream which occurred to him two or three nights ago. A fellow
volunteer was astonished to see Jamieson rise in his sleep and place his
arms in the attitude of discharging a rifle. He then exclaimed, “ A
bull’s eye!’’ and a few minutes afterwards he repeated the action,
crying out, “A bull’s eye again! I’ve won the Queen’s Prize by a
point.” The remarkable feature of this coincidence is the fact that
Jamieson’s triumph was, in fact, by just a point. Jamieson has never
won any very considerable prize before.—London Daily Express, July
18 th.
Royal Normal College for the Blind. — On Thursday, last
week, the new buildings in connection with the Royal Normal Col¬
lege of Music for the Blind, Upper Norwood, were opened by
H.R.H. the Princess Louise. The arrangements for the prevention of
overcrowding were excellent. Among those present we noticed the
Marquis of Lome, the Duke of Westminster, Lord R, Grosvenor,
M.P., Dean Stanley and Miss Stanley, Mr. Cross (Home Secretary),
Sir Rutherford Alcock, the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. W. Tebb, Mrs.
Halloek, the Hon. Mrs. Forbes, Miss Spencer, Miss Deekens, Mr.
Dietz, and General Bradford. There was some good singing by the
College Choir, and some speeches by the Duke of Westminster, Sir
Rutherford Alcock, and Mr. Campbell, the principal. A year or two
ago we printed evidence, from several independent sources, that the
physically blind have sometimes been able to see by the faculty of
clairvoyance. One case of this kind came under the personal obser¬
vation of the Baroness Von Vay, of Austria, who published the details
in these pages, and who will be in London early in August next.
As clairvoyance is frequently developed by mesmerism, the serious
question remains unsolved as yet, whether many in the Normal Col¬
lege are not afflicted with blindness because popular ignorance of
psychology prevents their relief.
Psychological Observations by Mr. Darwin.—In the July number
of Mind Mr. Darwin publishes some interesting psychological observa¬
tions made on one of his children. The paper shows all the author’s
nice care in selecting suitable points for observation, as well as his pos¬
session of a sufficient guiding apparatusof psychological principles. The
particular infant observed appears to have been generally precocious.
Among many other curious facts recorded we may instance the child’s
expressing his anger when eleven months old by beating a wrong play¬
thing given him ; his showing fear when four and a half months old at
his father’s approaching him with his back towards him ; his recognising
an image of his father in a mirror as such when less than two months
old; and his experimenting in “the dramatic art” when thirteen
months old by pretending to be angry with his father, in order to have
the pleasure of a subsequent reconciliation. Mr. Darwin here and there
suggests important psychological bearings of his facts, as in accounting
for the child’s fear of unfamiliar animal-shapes in the Zoological Gar¬
dens, in noting how much surprise enters into laughter, and in enforcing
the hypothesis that man previously to the acquisition of articulate
sounds communicates his feelings and wants by means of notes falling
into “ a true musical scale.” Such carefully and intelligently made
observations of infants as those of M. Taine and Mr. Darwin cannot fail
to yield important psychological results. More particularly they may be
expected to throw much light on the order of events in the mental
I development of the race.
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 20, 1877.
SOCIAL AND SECTAEIAN NARKOWNESS. j
The following is one of a series of communications now in course of j (
publication in the Folkestone News, under the title of “ The Wobblejaw j
Ballads—
A STIFF-NECKED SON. j
Mr. Edditor,—Wats to be dun with my sun Tony ? He have fallen in j
luv with Rose Tomkinson, as is the artfullest creetur in Folkestone. 0, j
she’s deep, she is. She gits peeple to like her, by newer sayin nothing j
aggenst noboddy ; she newer jines in our little talks abbout our nabers,
or helps to put down them as oght to be put down. I’m skarsely siwle
to her when Tony’s out of the room. Ugh ! The apricot!
“Tony,” ses I, “ yure a disgrasing of us; me and yure father in¬
tended you for Sophy Wilkins, as would make us the best peeple in our j <
chappie, and would drive the Whiffens so ravin jellus that they would j
newer sit easy agen at prares in their pew on Sundays, and would ! (
newer forgive us to there dyin day.”
“ Tony,” ses his sister, burstin out cryin, “ you’ll be the min of us ] j
all, and I shant get engaged as lady’s made to the rectoress thru the I (
influens of Sophy Wilkins.” | <
Heer Tony’s little bruther, who didnt understan wot was sed, begun i j
to cry too.
“Tony,” sed Miss Spriggs, his aunt, “I think all luv makkin is h
wikked an sinfle, and yure parents is too good to you in lettin you think j j
even of Sophy Wilkins. Ware do you expect to go to when you die ?” 1 j
“Tony,” ses his father, “I’m greeved, deeply greeved. Yure a I1
proddigle sun, sir; yure a flying in the face of provvidence, and bringin j ]
of the gray hares of yure parents in sorrer to the grave. ”
“ Stop there,” I sed, “ I havvent got eny gray hares.”
“ Considerin,’’ ses he—not heedin—“ considerin the influens of deacon j j
Erasmus Wilkins in our chappie, considering the aid he mite hev been ! <
to me in bisniss, I look upon you as a profliigit, and hopes you’ll read all j(
about Annienias and Saffira before you go to bed to-nite, and that yure !,
heart will be sofened. I would have you think,” ses he, wavin his hand ! i
ellerquent, “I would have you think of the futur of them disobedyent j1
childern as is predestined to perdishun. Befor we go to bed to-nite we ji
will all sing the improving hym
’Mid seas of never-ending flames,
Where vengeance dire in thunder rolls,
And darts to inflict immortal pains,
Poison the blood of damned souls ”—
Heer I cried with joy, and thot I was in hewen. Our minnister j j
newer spuk better than did Tony’s father that nite.
“ I have newer had so much trubble,” ses he, “ since the day them j (
three twins come; the other two of em never disgrased me, but i/ou j(
Tony ” here he berried his eyes in his hankerchief.
Then Tony got up, verry red, and sed, “ I dont want to be misre- | (
spectful, father, but I bleeve yure all carin more abbout yurselves than j \
about me, and I hope Miss Wilkins will be at the bottom of the well in j)
Seagate-street, before Harvey annelieses it again.” And he went out. j (
Here’s trubble, here’s trubble !—YureS affekshunitly.
Sakah Wobblejaws. I (
P.S.—Everrybody wants to know what Tony will rite about next ;(
week. He has plenty of subjiks in hand, as follers :—How a milingtery j)
ossifer fired at a targit, and hit a heel-pie man in Sandgate. How K
Alderman Caister seed a ghost. What the stashun master sed to his j \
men, and what the men sed to the stashun master. Miss Rosylinder |
Smith and the curate. The luvs of the Mares of Folkestone, which Jc
Tony ses is an anshent and ossifide subjik. Alderman Banks on the j \
pollushun of rivers. How a sharp blade and a speer point, was found j;
in the mail bags contriry to regulations. We wants more skandles, and ! j
let them as nose them, rite all abbout them to the Mare, for Tony.
THE CONVERTED CARMANi It
Dear Sir,—At the Wesleyan Home Mission meeting last week, j)
under the presidency of Mr. Fagg, the Rev. W. D. Walters made a j(
statement, which I took down at the time, that a workman in Mr. j(
Spurgeon’s flock was suddenly moved to speak to a carman in the street j)
about his soul; the man swore at him, but finally was induced to go to ||
the Tabernacle, which he afterwards said he would never enter again, j |
The next time the carman saw Mr. Spurgeon’s follower in the street he |)
took to his heels, but was pursued, caught, induced to go to the l(
Tabernacle again, and was, with his wife, converted, and is now a j
useful member of the church. I have filled in the details of this story j)
from imagination, thus:— j\
In one of Folkestone’s chapels, i (
On the fifth, day of July, i j
Eighteen-hundred-and-seventy-seven, j)
With mouth agape sat I. j;
And Mister Walters told his tale, !)
Whilst deacons all-a-row, ! (
In nicely studied attitudes, j)
Smiled on their flock below. k
Though Walter’s hair was curly black, j)
His face was rosy red, !y
And rosier, ruddier still it grew, j y
As thus he sung or said:—■ j);
“ In the bright sun on London Bridge j >
A pale-faced workman stood, It
Who groaned, and upwards rolled his eyes, j (
He was so very good. , \ ||
“ And that same bilious carpenter - Jo ||l
A carman rude espied, ,y .4
Who cracked his whip and cried, ‘ Ya-hip 1 ’ j t j
So after him he hied. . . ; Hi
“ His shiny cap had one great peak
Just half-way down his back,
And for an apron this pure child
Of nature wore a sack.
“ His trowsers, made of corduroy,
Were tied below the knee,
As is the custom of his class,
Most beautiful to see.
“ His blouse of canvas fluttered free,
He bore his heavy whip
Beneath his arm, did this rude man—
The man who yelled ‘ Ya-hip! ’
“ Now, had that man read Coleridge
He would have cried, d’ye see,
‘ I prithee, ancient carpenter,
Now wherefore stopp’st thou me ? ’
“ But ‘ You get out! ’ was all he said,
And snapped amain his whip,
Then set his legs a-swing again,
And once more cried, ‘ Ya-hip ! ’
“ * Oh, go not thus! ’ said Spurgeon’s child,
‘ But listen unto me,
Here is a ticket, blue and red,
For our next weekly tea.’
g| Your tea be blowed,’ said that rough man,
With look of strange surprise,
And added sundry bad remarks
About his limbs and eyes.
“ ‘ I will not let thee say me nay,’
The carpenter replied;
Then both his eyes that carman rubbed,
And opened very wide.
“ For had the stranger punched his head,
Or swore an oath or two,
The carman would have been at home,
Nor puzzled what to do.
“ So lest his brains should be fatigued
In solving this hard knot,
He took the ticket, went to tea,
And found it strong and hot.
“And deaconesses spoke him fair,
And so did Spurgeon too;
They were so very nice all round,
He felt in quite a stew.
“ That night he passed in fitful dreams,
Brought on by hymns and tea ;
His simple brains were so upset,
All in a whirl was he.
“ When next he saw the carpenter
Close by his waggon’s wheels,
That sturdy carman dropped his whip,
And took unto his heels.
“ But the good carpenter gave chase,
Joined by a crowd of boys,
And once more into thraldom led
The man in corduroys.
“ He brought him back to Spurgeon’s flock,
And with him came his wife;
And that bluff man reformed his ways,
And led a better life,
“ In the great Tabernacle’s hall
They oft stand side by side—
The carpenter and carman both—
To Spurgeon’s joy and pride.
“ And oft he tells his listening flock
How censures leave a smart,
But kind words go like arrows home
To every human heart.”
The moral Walters drew from this,
All in a nutshell lies—
“ You can reclaim your brother man,
So go and do likewise.'11
Some tea-tickets I straightway bought,
And though Spearpoint* may rail,
To-night I’ll stop and clean convert
The man who drives the mail.
Anthony Wobblejaws.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
R.—You send us a letter about “ the world’s medium ” visiting your district.
Whom do you mean ?
A Subscriber.—Your letter does not give the details of the tests, nor are
your name and address appended. Unless under somewhat exceptional
circumstances, we do not care to publish anonymous letters about stances
with professional mediums.
* The Folkestone Postmaster. .
July 20, 1877.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Bd.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. (id.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. (id.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee o£
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.'
Edmonds, Judge of Hie Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practicahy useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ahiiity, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and iocience; the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical' geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
• of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist was to the effect
that there is no douht as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the nairatiYes
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance • or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumsliipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of aitrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this hook, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, 10s. (id.: cheap edition,
7s. od. ..
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. Cd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M, P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
' experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Cd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 8s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6cU
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer," s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations , . . . . 15 0
The Physician, Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . ,76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . • .76
The Seer. „ Ilf, . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , , . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . • .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . ,36
History and Philosophy of Evil , , . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . , . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . , .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures ... ... 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb Spieituaiist Newspaper . ,26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) , . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 3
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trm. Coll, Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 0
Awas-I-Hindi; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 13 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . , • . . 10 g
GARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each,
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten: 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
Hie mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. Is. 6d.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam-
is.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase, is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 6d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
Hallock. Soiled, Is.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholic
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut. Is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow.
6d.
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. II. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper, Is.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
I he above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holboro,
London, W.O.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Mediumship * its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; of six copies post free
for 6d.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
IV
July 20, 1877,
The great question .qf.the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
• Prevention of the Propagation of Infection^ Diseases. Startling
but True.
* How long are we to he left in sanitarjrmatters) at the mercy;
^ of the ignorant and careless? -The T.iYqe/states that 100,000'
oases annually of illness from typhoid* fever alone may be set!
dqWn,as preventable. . Upwards of 500,000 persons have died ;
: of, this preventable disease since the, death5.0l PBINGE,
ALBERT. THE. (LREAt AND GOOD. Under; the'Mosaic;
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters 1
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in;
comparison to ours.
IQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
■ slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
‘ hunted up,' and its career stopped,-as the solitary wretch who
caus.es.; his .fellow a violent death? The murderer, as he is ;
called,"'is quietly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged'to be preventable diseases; ;
' how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands eyejry r
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most :
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder. |
WHO’S TO BLAME ? . For the means of preventing prema- i
: ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given 1
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT.SALT; the information is ;
nyaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
3 blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. ,As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it^is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
5 beverage. After a patient and careful-observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT ,
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau hue would contain it.
END’S FRUIT-SALT.—A gentleman writesi
‘‘In cases ofv bilious headaches, followed by severe !
attacks of fever, EN CVS FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm ;
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant ’
' when the rfeglect Af.its qse in all fevers and diseaj3ea resulting j
from pqisoned. blood will be ‘considered'‘crimind,l.”-^See }
'SiomacTi'and'its'Tjtidts, 10th edition, post’free ii’stSnips.
What every'TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to ‘
contain—a bottle of FIDO'S FRUIT SALT.
. Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As “a HEALTH-GIVfNG, REFRESHING, COOLING, ah’d
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GEfcfTLE LAXA- 1
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
END’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUNi) RIPE FRUIT),
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange- j
merits of the Liver, tCertjpofary Congestion arising from'Alco- j
holic BeverageSvBiiibusness,'Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, ;
Impure Blood, Pimples on the; Face, G-iddiness, Feverishness i
or Feverish.Oolds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, "Vomitings Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of, ErropofEaJing and Drinking; also Gouty gr j
Rheumatic PolsohC from ;tbe-Blood, the neglect of .which often ;
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death, si
Notwithstanding i/S inedieinal :'value,' the: FRUIT SALT
must he looked upon as es.septial-as'JbrgntJbing fresh air, or as I
a simple and safe beverage undeb dud may
he taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, spdawater,potasswater; &b., onlyit is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlitfiited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
.CLIMATES, I consider the .FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous ;
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food,, as they do in a colder country, while so mu6h
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping ihe system clear, the- Fruit Salt takes aWay the
groundwork of malarious-diseases, and all liver complaints, !
and neutralises poisonousNmattjer. Out of "arlarge number of
Testimonials we select the following;—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and- M.R.C.S., L A;.C.; London; wites s—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt,' having tried it on .
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable. ;
Having nearly died‘of Typhoid, when studying at College, ji
being the only ohe out of sixte.en who,‘recovered, I mean Jo go
in well for purify ing the blood. Though L am sixty-three, T-.l
have hot the least doubt it will be very serviceable to rrte.”
A Gentleman writes;—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was. known in AN DIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not he,limited to .thousands of bottles per annum,
hut MANY MILLIONS. India alone Would use more -than
all England.’,
“YourFruit Salmis beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would makeRs own way by its^own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-lawY20, Old Sta’teHouse, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes:Everything, .medicine pr food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced !
taking it;; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My1life was one of great suffering, so that I must',
have, succumbcd-hqfore long. To me arid, our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least 1 can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers.- I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almostalwaj s recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.” -
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
~ “ A gentleman palled in yesterday. . He is a constant
sufferer- from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. . I recommended him to.give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit.' He says be never
• knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
. “M.BERAL.” .
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. Cd.
Sole Aaent for' Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
. i THE 'REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND ' WORKS ON \ THE
■ SUBJECT,
BY “ ALA. (QXON.).Y . V Jtf :
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of. the subject:
its, many-sidedness.' Certain broad yiqws tojbe more pqr-
. ticujarly illustrated in subsequent sections, rTbe claims and ;
present position of Spiritualism. , ’
i&jBMtt. SECTION I... .
HiSTOHlgjfe^PpA.- retrospect of the history of the subject, illus-
tratea fronL Epes, Sargent’s' iYtmc/w-ffe (reviewed), 'Mrs.
Hardinge,. Brittens M-istorj/ of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles ' anA Modern .Spiritualism.
History of the.Supernatural, Shorter’s Two, Worlds, Judge
Edmond s Tracts.
SECTION II. '
■ Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomenapf )
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations'that ;
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arerma of Spiritualism, I
» p(reviowed), - Hare’s ' SpiHtualisjill Sfifntifiballp ]Hxpla,ini%l,\
• - Crodke’s [Researches, De. ,Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit, i
SECTION: III.
Phenomenal,—Dealing with published accounts of form- ’
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from, the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpalfc if ;
Immortality, - Startling Facts in Modern Spirit-1
■ ualism.
SECTION. IV.
. Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought but in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modem
Spiritualism (reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to,the Clergy
in his Debateable Land, S. O. Hall's Use of Spiritualism.
"   SECTION V.
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
• incarrtate human' spirit,-especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exemplified in 'simple clear-
sight or psychometrioaliy in Denton’s Soul cf Things, a,nd
, Andrew J. Davis’s Magic ' Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
AnmiQ-de la vie Suture, gn&v
■ . . - • SECTION VI.- . r '
Occultism.—Dealing further vWth^certain occiilt.powers of j
thq human spirit, and with phenomeoattttri'butuble to them, J
as shownm Aft-jWagic, &7ib?f-Lan<l*(retieWed)yand further
illustrated by records of phenomena bithertcTuapublishCd,
rTH EATR AN S-OORPORE A L' ACTION- O’FrSPiRIT. ^ i
ESPke’tA'fXY bUttlNG^SLEEP: iMitEDIATELY BEFORE,‘AkD fy ;
.the Time oe-Deaih: and unde# sok#, StrOnC'^Ssion i
•-or-Emotion. . .
"[This Will form a considerable section,.distinct from the rest
of the bopk: ami will include a large number of facts, new
and old/arranged'on the principle"bf reference to their deter-
uiining-cauge, v^ierejsuch can be ascertained,]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
■alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many-sources .for .informa-
tignjas ,to the,' title' and scope of the work. The. title now
affixed explains what is intended. The. scppe.bf the ‘wprk is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they arfe-presented in
the works of .other-authors; and so to point out,and summarise
the best bqoks on the subject.
Though the plan* may be modified, it wiU not he substan¬
tially changed. .
' The sebtioifs ‘which dbal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects wjll be,,SQ arranged as not to'trench-on the works
announced ‘fdr' .future publlcationA-Npinf * Teachings!
Researches in ihe Phenomena and PMlosophy of-Spir itualism.
; r . M. A. OXON.
The volume .will be- puhlished at 10s. The names of.sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15,’ Oonduit-Btreet, W.
London, May, 1877.'
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME. •
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spirituaiism, should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with net Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to he found in nearly every household.
Let. the room b,e ,oi a comfortable temperature, but coo]
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall he no interruption for one
hour during.the sitting of the circle. J
Let the circle consist .of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table,' with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top' surface. Whether the hands touch erach other of not
is usually of no'importance. Any table Will'do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate . the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds; does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations. ', , < 6Li - '
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and'some sheets of clean writing paper bn the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, ior such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently-found to be a weakening influence. .
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
Should be of a frivolous-nature.
The first symptom of-the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like'a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
Wljen motions ,bf the'table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as-to an intelligent being. .Let him tell the table that
three-tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,’! and two
mean'“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood-. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
spe,ak‘the letters ,of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter yon want; and spell us out a mes¬
sage?” Should .three signals be given,", set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is-established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting i» the
right" order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then he told to change seats with
each pther,.and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next, ask ‘f Who. is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failiflgs of humanity.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA, .
OR
Q A ,A ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory. M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
, Y . '' fff,. Fdjrfturgji 'University,
^'.Dedicated by .tnq Author'by Pormissfim to His Grace
‘ ^ the Dulte." of) "Argyll.
* The second and slightly revised and abridged edition,
Will bq out iijta few.days, price 5s'., oj. 5s, 6d. post free; or
five oopies post free.idr Stls. Subscribers will bq supplied with
early copies, in the rotation in which their orders and remit¬
tances, are sent. Copies .jnay also, be hadabound,in. half calf,
with marbled edges, jarice Ss. 6d. per yolume, post treg.
  - -- - ,- —, —— 
\ CtpAPTE^t I-:—Ft):st,Effecig Produced "by Mesmerism—Sensations
■L-ProCbss for1 Causing-MgSriiA-ie''Sleep_t-fTfie'Slfdriibc 'Mesmeric
• State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
j the" Sleep—Liyided'Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
• Pain, w *
-'- .CHAPTER*!! .Control’-Exercised by the Operatnr- over the Sub¬
ject in Yarious Ways—Striking Expression‘of Feelings in -the Look
andrQ4esturetT-Effgctof Mjisitw-'y^uttyulnqss pf tht).Sleensr=-Various
Degrees of Snseeptibifity-LSfeep- Causeu «B.y’ SHeatlWin "arid at a
Distance—Attfacti6u To'^ards%the 'Operator-4-EffeCtjrinf>ithe Waking
.‘State ot Command^ Given mthe Sleep.. ■. tni ii-srir i ,!
CHAPTER IIP: L-Syiripathy—OomHiuriity.iofj'Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger "of Rash 'Experiments—Pubriw ifaUibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy .with tha-Bystandefs —'Ijiouglit-
.Reqdijlg—.Sources of Errpr—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic. Wani-
-'ings—Sympathies: and Antipathies—Existence'of a Peculiar Force
. or Influence.
. CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of.Near Objects; through Opaque Bodies: at a
.Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
■—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Tr -msference of Senses and. of Pain.
- CHAPTER YI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology,Electro-Psychology
• and Hypnotism, essentially,tlje jsame—Phenomena-of fjjuggestions in
-the Conssipus,or-Waking Stater-Dr. Darling’s Method arid its Effects
«—Mr. LeWiss M^bodf and ;its.;Resqlt^rr-T)ie Impressible SJ^te—
’ Control Exercised tiy the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Kaid's Hypnotism
—The Authbr’CExperiencel—Iriipoftaricfi bf FebSeVeiAn'qe—'Tile'Sub-
• ject-4h#st.h&.SMdfed.'1 y a jk c a. , --iFi-W'iffiTnrfo'tin' I
, 0L[AP'TJSRWir:4-Tran9e, Natural; arid 'AccWhfriL'Aiesmeric—
Tranob, Produced Stlw iff by. the S ubj ects—Col’ To wuserifi-r-Fakebrs—
;Ej^^is^Ejta'tics riot’all Jmposters—Lumin'oris Euiariations—jEktasis
mien Predicted—M Cahagnet’s ‘ Extiitres—visions Of the 'Spiritual
World. m If •■'*
'“CHAPTER 'YIIT: 'Phreno-Mesmerismf^Progress'of Phrenology—
Effec'ts'qf Touchirig the Head in the Sleep—.Variety'hi the Pheuom-
"ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these ’Act,
and others in"which they do not Act—Phenomena Described —The
Lower'Animals - Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Aniong
Animals — Distinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
' CHAPTER IX :—Action of Magnets,'Crystals; efi‘c.,':on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical witli the
■ Mesmerip Fkiid of Mesmer, or with the InfliuBiee which-Canses the
•Mesmeric Pheriomena—Odylic or Mesmeric, Liiht—Aurora Borealis
‘Artifiotally Produced—Mesmerised Water— USefiil Applications of
"Mesmerism—Phsysiokigical, Therapeutical, etc —Treatment of Inaan-
ity. Magic, Divination; Witchcraft,-eto., explained by -Mesmerism,
and -/L'acrid—to -Natural , Causes-7—Apparitions —Seqond Sight is
WakintClairyoyance^-JPrefiictions of various Kinds.
; CHAPTER’X An’Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A-Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, .Certainly Exists,
and is Probably..the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism,—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
■Odylic Emanations—^Odylic Traces’ followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—TheMagic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
- CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
-Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in ..the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious' ,or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.'
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of rili'e Mesmeric "Sle'ep—Castes—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Aritfior Thrown
jnto Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge oP the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-MesmerEm in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyaric'e'iif the Sleepk-Cases-^Perception-of-Tiuitf
—Cases ■ Sir J-Franklin ; Major Buckley’s, Case of Retrovisiqn.
• CHAPTER. XI-V —Direct Clairvoyance^-Case-t—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Oases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy-,
mail; with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases:
> CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
• CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
; London: W. H. Harrison, 38, ,Great Russell-ptreet, W.C.
WORKS. BY EDWARD MAITLAND;
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
prioeJsrCd.' I. The Pilgrimand the Shrine. II. HigherLaW: a
romance?''IlL''By-ahd"-By: an historical romance'of ’the
futpre. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IY. FrioASs.'Cd.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and.
Misuse of-the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys .of ,the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and,
Islam; or, the Counsel of-Gaiaphas. A book for the times-,
present and to cofne/ TinslUy Brothers. ■ 1
LITERARY.—A. gentleman d,f considerable
practical experience is. ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address O.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
SUPERIOR BOARD, ;&c;, in country man¬
sion, beautiful locale, twenty minutes from town, for a
lady wishing to be initiated into the knowledge of Spiritualism,
for development, by a gentlewoman of high standing and more
than twenty years' experience,., herself a . curative medium
through spiritual transfusion. Delta, Starkey’s, chemist, 2,
Lower Notting-hill-terrace, W.
PADDINGTON :—-The, Spiritualist p#y be
. obtained speedily every week frourW^Kegnedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-streat, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and .printing e^egutpd jvjfb rdispatgh. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30; HT1T
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fu)lwo6d’s Rents, High Holboru
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-laue, London, E.G. *
