liEfiisTERED as A Newspaper.
®^e #Ihst llffospi'er mnwrtrir fott| S^intualism m ^rrat ^riiam.
No. 365. (VOL. XV.—No. 8.) LONDON! IRIDA-Y, A.UGDST 22, 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
SANITAS, the Health giver;
Or, the Pine Forest at Home.
SANITAS IS SOLD IN FLUID, POWDER AND SOAPS.
SANITAS FLUID, Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d. in Bottles. By the Gallon at 20s., and 5s. It is the best fluid disinfectant, preventative of
contagion, and preservative of Meat, Fish, &c. Applied to the Bath, it improves the health by purifying the tissues and pores of the
skin, giving natural beauty and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS TOILET POWDER in Is. Boxes is far superior to any of the so-called Violet Powders ; it is perfectly free from all
mineral and poisonous ingredients; improves the complexion, and softens the skin.
SANITAS TOILET SOAP is a beautiful transparent soap, containing a large percentage of Sanitas. It effectually softens and
improves the skin, and gives natural health and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS HOUSEHOLD SOAPS, sold in Gd. and Id. Bars., is excellently suited for cleaning and disinfection, whitens and
purifies linen goods.
TOILET SANITAS FLUID, in Is., and 2s. 6d. Bottles, is a beautifully perfumed Fluid, having all the properties of the ordinary
Sanitas in a more agreeable and fragrant form. Specially adapted as a mouth wash, and for spraying rooms, use in finger glasses, &c.
SANITAS DISINFECTING POWDER.
SANITAS TOOTH POWDER, and the several productions of the Company, to be had at the
f-ijin i tnK Ooiupn-iiy-A.g’eiioy,
4, MILDMAY GROVE, HIGHBURY, LONDON, N,
CAUTION.—All Articles hear the Company's Trade Mark and Seal, without which none are genuine.
Chemists and the Trade Supplied.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol, I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
IECHAIISI OP MAI.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism ih Action;*
may be had, price 12s. Gd. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. Gd.
Longman And Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published.
Ih One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists,
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
THE SPiklTUALiST.
11
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, IF.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, fdr the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, drgaiiio and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Cdmmunicatioiis as to alleged phenoniena
are ‘ihvited by the Committee of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be dbtaihed on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary SecretAry, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN EARDEC . (Blackwell's Translations),
IriE SPIRITS* BOOK (1858). From the itundred and Twentieth Thousand.
TIJE MEDIUMS) BOOK (18G1), From the Eightyhfth Thousand.
HE A YEN' AND HELL (1SG3). From the Sixtieth- Thousand.
Bfice 7S. f;d. TRuDner and do., Londott.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A, (Oxotf.)."
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Pride Five Shillings, post ffee.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Shdft Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W, W. CLARK.
Consents ;—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
London: Trubner And Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. Gd.,, Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
- By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
; As, Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARKISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first,’ and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals’ with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. Gd.,
post free. Cloth edition .5s. Gd., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Mugeum--Btreet, London, W.C.
Atjg. 22, 1S79.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUlt STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 tili 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-streef,
W.C. (corner of new Ormond-stfeet),
MR; J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Snhday),
Will lecture-at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, 'Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
Vitality.
D. YOUNGER,
1G4, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes,all pangs,
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MRS. A. KIMBALL,
SOMNAMBULIC MESMERIST AND MEDIUM,
Receives daily from 11 to 5 (except Sunday), at 26,
Montagne-street, Russell-square, London.
■jV/TRS. LOUIE M. LOWE, 23, Upper
IVl Baker street, London. At home from two till
five o’clock daily, except Sundays.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris. 
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O,
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. Gd.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs, Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
OLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair ; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W.
TAOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodg-
P ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-
terrace, Folkestone.
Hackney spiritual evidence
SOCIETY, 6, Field-view-terrace, London-flelds,
E., near Blacbstone-road Members’ stance, Mondays,
8 p.m. Private materialisation stance, Tuesdays, 8 p.m.
Miss Barnes, mesmeric sensitive, who obtains good
rappings, also, as conditions favour, lights, voices,
wriiing, and other psychical phenomena, gives experi¬
mental stances every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday, 8.15 p.m., Sixpence. Private stance
any time, prior arrangement, 6s. Mesmerism taught
personally or by letter, 5s. Sundays, 6:30 p.m., Mes¬
meric Healing; 7, Devotional Meeting; 8, Stance.—Six¬
pence inclusive. C. R. WILLIAMS, Sec,
$, D;f to Iftfxxgti^sa ul the SDi^rrco awd ^Stdios al Sp;it[iti*aiisw.
No. 365,—VOJLUJVIE FlFTEENJ NujVIBER JEJlQHT,
LONDON. FRIDAY, AUG-DST 22nd, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Estilblisiled in 13G9.
Published Weekly. Pbics Twopence.
10a. 10di per anmtm Post Free Within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
Within the English and Foreign Postal Unioii.
EDltfED BT? WILLIAM £, SABRI90N.
99, Pritish Museiim-street, London;
The foliowiiig Ladids and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
With their Literary Contributions to T/te Spiritualist:—
it is Imperial Highness Nicholas Of
Russia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owert, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples,
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Ishatn, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. (Disco*-
■verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq , F.R.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rey. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencben, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The, Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile dd Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von DirCkinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch GUdrd to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.R.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq, J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Hiss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 83, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Paris!, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocea,
Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, 2G7, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Rue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne; Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of LAght Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religw-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No, 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rPHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. ' In this
_L extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
\
)
<
(
(
<
<
I
A THEORY OF MEDIUMSHIP.
BY JOHN E; PURDON, M.B,
I am much obliged to you for making reference to
some old observations of mine, when, sometime since,
in treating of the Slade experiments of Professor
Zollner, attention was called to peculiarities of vision
in the case of the medium. I have known for the
last seven years that in certain cases of nerve strain
and disturbed tension of the two sides of the brain,
mediums show marked peculiarities of the special
senses, somewhat similar to those mentioned in the
paper published in the Lancet of July 12th. This I
first noticed in the case of a most remarkable medium
who, with her sister, also showing related peculiarities,
has for some years been astonishing investigators in
London, scientific and otherwise, by well-authenticated
and verified materialisations. This family I have
studied closely off and on for the last seven years,
and I know I am justified in saying that the derange¬
ment of functional sense activity can be ignored
only by ignoring the fact of mediumship altogether.
If not a consequence or a cause, it is at any rate a
sign or an accompaniment of physical mediumship.
Until the subject of mediumship is studied in con¬
nection with the present accepted theory of sensation,
it is certainly premature to fall back on such a last
resource as space of four dimensions as a theatre of
operation for the manipulation of matter by living
beings or spirits, when a missing link is perceived in
the chain of natural knowledge. I, years ago, rejected
that as a working hypothesis, on account of the
breach of continuity it involves, for we cannot repre¬
sent to ourselves or picture affairs in fourfold space,
though we may grant to fourfold space as real an
existence (mathematically speaking) as that which we
allow to the threefold space in which we live. To
adopt this extra-unit space as a possible explanation
of extraordinary isolated parts is one thing ; to picture
affairs as they are related to one another in that
space is quite another thing. This attempt secretly
assumes an eye of which, in Kantian language, that
fourfold space is the external sense form, and it
further assumes that the languages of three and four¬
fold space are interchangeable to a certain extent.
The doctrine may suggest much, but it cannot
explain. It appears to me that, to those who adopt
it, it finds its justification in the assumed continuity
and permanence of matter, which are regarded as
essential properties with which the observer is in no
way related. For if (an essential “if”) matter be
as permanent as a closed curve upon which knots
cannot be made except by bending in a space other
than that in which we are placed, it of course follows
that to preserve the continuity of matter an extra¬
ordinary space has to be assumed, should correspond¬
ing changes take place in the case of real matter.
86
That knots have come upon a closed cord is certainly a i
very wonderful fact; but it is well known that there j (
are other facts equally wonderful Avhich make as much }>
against as for the necessity of calling in the aid of K
fourfold space. The strength of that position consists I)
in the fact that threefold space may be regarded as a K
limited form of fourfold space, so that the removal of |)
the limiting condition necessitates the transcending of j (
ordinary experience which is built up on the lines of j /
ordinary threefold space. Attention was called to |(
this in the discussion on Kant’s “View of Space,” j)
consequent of the publication of a paper by J. J. K
Sylvester, Esq., the particulars of which will be found j)
in one of the early volumes of Nature.
While I object to the assumption of space of four !>
dimensions as illegitimate, both on the ground of K
breach of continuity of thought and on that of unne- j)
cessary multiplication of entities, I must say that I j (
think it more than probable that a theory involving |)
the assumption of a sense form of four elements may |<
yet play its part in the treatment of the recondite j)
problems of clairvoyance, mesmerism, &c., but not in |(
the manner objected to above.
Sir .Wi B,. Hamilton, the great Irish mathema- j(
tician* was haunted with the idea of space of four j)
dimensions, till his discovery of a true tridimensional j \
space algebra, in 1843, rendered evident to him the n
significance of the fourth unit, which he regarded j(
ever afterwards as related to time. He was also of \)
opinion that his calculus would be applicable wherever ! j
the idea of polarity was involved, so that the appli- jj
cation of the principles latent in his great discovery ||
may not unnaturally be expected to play a leading j)
part in reducing to a scientific order the scattered If
and disjointed elements of a theory of vital dynamics. >
The very objection urged by some mathematicians j(
that the fourth element is uninterpretable in relation |j
to geometrical and mechanical problems may be the k
advantage which will enable Hamilton’s symbolic j)
method of reasoning to deal with questions involving |)
feeling and sensation, and therefore time, not for- jv
getting to mention the double nervous system of the |f
iwo sides of the body, differently related to space, and H
so forcing upon us the idea of polarity. Hamilton’s j{
sciences of pure time and pure space were suggested j>
to him by the internal and external sense forms of i (
Kant;, and it would be something extraordinary if the j)
powerful instinct and insight of that man of genius i
guided him towards the construction of an instrument I)
capable of dealing with the external and internal k
senses, the barrier between them having been j|
broken down in the world of fact and experiment; |)
the Kantian distinction of external and internal Ij
sense forms founded on purely empirical data, though j)
suggestive to him, yet not leading him into a cor- j\
responding error in the nature of his instrument. |)
Just as Hamilton’s algebra—the science of pure j\
time—is not necessarily the first stage in the dis- j)
covery of his quaternion calculus, so the internal ||
sense form and its contents do not give us space and !
its contents ; but the distinction does not hold when j\
the terms are reversed, for Hamilton’s space algebra j)
does suggest the idea of time, and the progress of K
modern psychological thought forces us to the con- j)
elusion that space and its contents are real in the K
chronological order before time and its contents, the {>
Ego and its affections (and so more comprehensive)— !;
Aug. 22, L870.
a fact used by Kant in his refutation of idealism.
On grounds such as these I enter a disclaimer against
the adoption of the four dimensions of space theory
of Professor Zollner. Even granting that the hypo¬
thesis fully explained some of the phenomena, there
are others more easily explained by making some
justifiable assumptions which do not contradict
established principles and laws. I mean in regard
to those phenomena showing the construction and
disintegration of the pseudo-material space reals
which are so often reported on, now that a knowledge
of mediumism is general. It is, after all, matter
which is to us tridimensional and not space; and if
into the construction of matter polar elements enter,
which have their counterparts in the joint action of a
double nervous system, we have in the study of
diseased and disturbed human beings, and in the
investigation of the extraordinary functional activity
of those who produce real manifestations, the only
true means of ascertaining such relationships and
analogies, through the discovery of the part the
medium plays, and the manner of it, in the construc¬
tion of the pseudo-material but “phantasmal por¬
traiture of wandering human thought.” The ulti¬
mate stuff of which these simulacra are composed is
as far beyond the grasp of conscious sensibility as
that ultimate stuff of matter from which we cannot
differentiate it, with the moulding of which into the
forms in the universe around us man has nothing to
do, though he is inevitably bound to the dead and
living things around by the attribute of a common
materiality. Man has, however, the rare privilege of
examining how a something very similar to matter,
capable of reacting to impressed force, and in some
way obedient to will, does come into existence and
take a definite form.
But, to our experience, matter is not permanent and
continuous in the same sense that a geometrical
curve is. It is the state of the feeling organism
that puts matter out there and keeps it there, that is
permanent and continuous. If there is one lesson
more than another that the educated Spiritualist
ought to have learned, it is this—the departure from
the standard of the ordinary (as in manifestations) is
invariably accompanied by departure from the physio¬
logical standard on the part of the medium. While
the great fields of sense, perturbation, and functional
nerve disturbance are absolutely untouched in their
relation to extraordinary manifestations, it is no
better than hypothetical patchwork when space of
four dimensions is used as a playground to permit
us to account for changes in the phenomenal thing.
The truth is, a very varied and lengthened experi¬
ence is necessary to enable one to regard the facts
which mediumship reveals with an evenly-balanced
mind, so startling and so impressive is the experience
opened up. Each endeavours to grasp the subject
from the standpoint of his own particular scientific
platform, and so no real advance has been made
towards the establishment of a general theory, which,
without violating established principles or dislocating
the recognised scientific order, calmly accepts the new
with the hope of assimilating it with the old and
known, shunning alike an offensive onesidedness and
a childish acceptance of unproven credentials.
I venture to put forward, in bare outline, the
sketch of a rational theory of mediumship for the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 22, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
87
consideration of Spiritualists of all shades and sects,
Instead of regarding the action, power, or energy of a ?
medium as exerted on and originating changes in the H
phenomenal thing, which would be simply treating i)
the subject at once as a branch of physical science, K
I will begin by saying that it is just as maintainable !(
a position that the changes originate in the thing-in- n
itself (which underlies the phenomenon, and is there- k
fore external to consciousness), and which thing-in- ||
itself we have a right to assume to be as equally |)
related to all the onlookers as the phenomenal thing |s
is, and to be thereby capable of affecting the phe- |)
nomenal Ego in each and every instance when it, K
the thing-in-itself, is reached on through the physical j)
peculiarities of the organism of any one of the K
members witnessing a given disturbance from the j)
ordinary course of events. The machinery of sense- K
thought in the medium being known to behave some- R
what differently at different times, the resultant j>
product may not unnaturally be expected to vary. In 17
other words, there may be a change in the loom, K
and not alone in the fabric. But the variation of j)
the product being established experimentally, if the K
relation of machinery and manufactured article be j)
acknowledged, the universality of the change in the K
product, i.e., its identical appearance to all men, j)
implies the unopposed and free integration between | ^
that which I have typified as a loom and all other similar j)
machines. In other words, that which becomes true Is
for one man must remain so for all; a new possi- 17
bility having been opened up for one, all equally \
avail themselves of it, from the very fact of their j)
functional identity. It is, in fact, a functional is
revelation, and therefore one universal in its character, j)
which I am trying to indicate under the imagery h
of mechanical actions, where an influence sufficiently \h
strong (or special) to affect any one member of a js
linked series is necessarily propagated through the !)
whole chain when once it makes an impression any- |)
where. R
A doctrine of correspondence was not long since r
put forward by the late Professor W. Kingden Clifford \ \
(See Mind, No. IX.), in which the thing-in-itself, or
the reality which underlies phenomenon, is regarded
as of the nature of mind, or, in fact, composed of
the elements of feeling which underlie and enter into |
the composition of the woven something, which is to j
us our consciousness. Wherever there is motion of j
matter elemental mind stuff exists; and these elements, j
to use Professor Clifford’s own words, “ are con- 1
nected together in their sequence and coexistence by j\
counterparts of the physical laws of matter. For i)
otherwise the correspondence could not be kept up.” K
This is, in my opinion, such a view of the relation |)
existing between mind and matter, as we must adopt
in endeavouring to bring the subject of mediumship
down to the level of everyday science.
After being satisfied of the reality of manifesta¬
tions produced by mediums, I was^for years obliged to
rest content with the bare acknowledgments of the
matter of fact from the difficulty I felt in finding an
answer to the question, How is it that the external j
reality is necessarily a reality for the whole world, as
well as for the medium, whose life is the sine qua non
in its manifestation, if it is merely by effort, |\
analogous to will, conscious or unconscious, that the R
medium is the active agent in its production ? This
difficulty lay not so much in an answer to the above
question as in that to the far more formidable ques¬
tion, How is it that external reality in general is a
consequence of effort of the unconscious type ?—for
this appeared to me to be the necessary sequel to the
former, if the mediumistic manifestation be taken as
a specimen of the construction of the real in space.
The difficulty was insurmountable to me, for I was
convinced from experience of the extraordinary that
the store of physical energy in the medium’s body,
however determined to produce results in definite
directions, was drawn upon during all manifestations
without, necessarily, the slightest intention to deceive
on the part of the medium regarded as a conscious
moral being; of course, I mean in the respectable
instances which we have all met with in our investiga¬
tions. It is not till such a theory as that of Professor
Clifford is advanced as the foundation from which to
operate that these questions at all assume a soluble
aspect. According to that view. of correspondence
all changes in the nervous system (and therefore the
abnormal as well as the normal) have Corresponding
to them elements outside or below consciousness, but
which, in certain instances, may, when manufactured
into a complex structure, appear in consciousness as
object. According to this view, when a change takes
place in the objective order, or in the object or
phenomenon, we must suppose the change to originate
in what I may call the process of secretion, or in that
of manufacture, or in both together, of that raw
material of feeling which afterwards becomes organised
into the matter of experience. As that which
corresponds to an ultimate beyond consciousness and
below matter is a mere nerve motion, we have in the
abnormal objective order merely abnormal nerve
activity, and this is the ground where the investigator
must begin his labours, and where, I believe, I have
already made some observations worth recording.
Wherever there is a spiritual manifestation, so-called,
i.e., a something contrary to the usual order of
affairs, there is corresponding to it nervous activity
out of the common course ; but as it has produced its
results as certified to by the real change on the
phenomenal side, it may become a subject of experi¬
mental inquiry under improved methods of research.
Manifestations are thus the certificates that there
exists in connection with them abnormal nerve
activity.
It would appear to the worker in the field of modern
Spiritualism, who adopts Professor Clifford’s view of
the nature of the material universe, that the possi¬
bility of constructing new objects and strangely
affecting old ones, or to use a more general term,
interfering with the objective order, arises from the
fact that “ eject-elements ” underlying consciousness
can be supplied from a strange source, for that then
the habit of grouping previously experienced elements
from previously experienced sources is not present to
exert a guardian influence as it does in maintaining
the stability of the ordinary.
It may further be supposed, in the case of pro¬
gressively developing manifestations, that new ele¬
ments from new sources group themselves under
certain available forms, which becoming integrated
into the complex that underlies phenomenon, establish
at the same time habits through which the corre¬
sponding feeling is easily reproduced ; hence the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 22, 1879.
exact similitude of manifestations time after time as K
exhibited by the medium, his associates, and imitators. |)
Evolution, in all probability, is the moulding prin- ! (
ciple under the influence of -which our bodies are, to j)
use Professor Clifford’s words, ‘f merely complicated
examples of practically universal physical rules but j)
in addition to the uniformity in the order of nature, ||
which is so loudly proclaimed as the death-note of the |)
possibility of mediumistic manifestations, we can read |\
other indications where well-established uniformity is j)
departed from. A violation of normal functional K
activity, we know not how, sometimes results in the k
production of abnormal forms in nature called j)
monsters. The supply of energy is not interfered k
with, but the directive agency is ; and here we have jv
the analogue to the mediumistic manifestations, 1/
where the form of the combination of Clifford’s j)
P eject elements,” abnormal in such instances, is the \)
underlying and unseen in correspondence with the j)
abnormal phenomenon. j?
The variation in the. form of these combinations K
must, however, correspond to the limits of possible U
functional range, and hence we may formulate an ij
expression for the universality, that is, reality, of j'v
effects produced by mediums, and witnessed by any
convenient number of observers, viz., the functional H
activities of the medium during abnormal manifesta- j)
tions are endorsed and guaranteed by the possible | <
activities of the observers ; the thing-in-itself which j j
underlies the phenomenal being as truly related to j(
the possible as to the actual, and, consequently, p
remaining identical in both the active and passive h
members of the circle. This is the functional inte- K
gration which was spoken of when the analogy of j]
linked machinery was used higher up in illustration |;
of a functional revelation of new powers existing I
latent in the human organism.
This is a rough outline of a way of looking at the | (
subject of mediumship that I think may be useful, p
While denying that anything more than the acknow- {(
ledgment of a certain functional elasticity is j;
demanded (clairvoyance and mesmeric sympathy |(
incontrovertibly prove the fact of such elasticity) to |)
reconcile modern Spiritualism and science, it makes p
use of a doctrine which asserts that “Matter is a ji
mental picture in which mind-stuff is the thing repre- |;
sented,” to account for possible pseudo-material j
constructions in space, the mind-stuff, or unconscious | i
feeling, underlying the phenomenal being supplied j
through the agency of the medium’s nervous system, j;
The mere expenditure of the stored-up energy of tlie I
medium’s blood and tissues through unusual channels |;
it does not attempt to account for, regarding it \\
simply as a matter of fact which neither does nor p
can violate the principle of conservation. The j:
directed expenditure of energy without the aid of its }(
special machine, a muscle, will of course oblige us )
to take enlarged views of the relation of volition to j (
energy ; but this is a matter of detail.
In conclusion, I may say that experience goes to \\
show; that apart from special functional peculiarities, I)
mediums are very little different from average men I \
and women, except in the fact that with them nerve- j>
tissue iSj as it were, more explosive in its physical |
character, and that, consequently, as a compensating {/
influence, manifestations are determined and educa- I
tionally developed which save the unstable individual I)
from chaotic externalisations of energy, such as fits
or insane impressions. The artistic nature is present
in some form in, perhaps, all mediums, and hence the
strange flood of energy has already a channel more or
less completely prepared for its efflux, whereby the
immediate safety of the medium is ensured, though
often at the expense of his higher nature. It would
almost seem as if original creative genius were the
high and perfect form of that which, as mediumship,
can only be regarded as an imperfection, mental and
mechanical, and thereby well-suited to be one factor
in the production of the seemingly useless and
isolated facts in nature known as Spiritualistic
manifestations.
THE APPARITION OF SIR GEORGE VILLIERS.
Among the numerous instances of spiritual appear¬
ances after death, and inferential spiritual identity
that have been brought forward of late, I do not know
whether that remarkable account has been noticed
which one of the gravest and most weighty of
English historians has thought not unworthy of
occupying several pages in his History of the Great
Rebellion. The Earl of Clarendon, Lord High
Chancellor of England in the reign of Charles I., and
who held high office in the previous and subsequent
reigns, has always been regarded as one of the solid,
discriminating, and richly-gifted minds of that stormy
period of English history, when learning, accomplish¬
ment, and genius were at high water mark ; and his
History of the Great Rebellion remains a standard
authority for the times, most important of all in
English development, of which it treats. A states¬
man, politician, and historian, he knew men and how
to weigh and sift events and evidence ; and when in
the opening book of his History, describing the
character and rise of the first Duke of Buckingham,
the most extraordinary character of an extraordinary
period, drawn in immortal colours by Dryden, he gives
four or five paragraphs to relating at length the
strange occurrences forerunning his assassination, it is
evident he believed what he was relating had actually
taken place; and it therefore seems worth while to
extract the passage very nearly entire.
Book L, cap. 89—93.—“There were many stories
scattered abroad at that time of several prophecies
and predictions of the duke’s untimely and violent
death. Amongst the rest there was one, which was
upon a better foundation of credit than usually such
discourses are founded upon. There was an officer in
the king’s wardrobe in Windsor Castle of a good re¬
putation for honesty and discretion, and then about
the age of fifty years or more. This man had in his
youth been bred in a school in the parish where Sir
George Villiers, the father of the duke, lived, and
had been much cherished and obliged in that season
of his age by the said Sir George, whom afterwards
he never saw. About six months before the miserable
end of the Duke of Buckingham, about midnight, this
man being in his bed at Windsor, where his
office was, and in very good health, there appeared to
him on the side of his bed a man of a very venerable
aspect, who drew the curtains of his bed, and fixing
his eyes upon him, asked if he knew him. The poor
man, half dead with fear and apprehension, being
asked the second time whether he remembered him.
89
Aug. 22, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
and having in that time called to his memory the
presence of Sir George Villiers, and the very clothes
he used to wear, in which at that time he seemed to
he habited (doubtless just as his effigy in the Nicholas
Chapel in Westminster Abbey now represent him,
with peaked beard, full frill, slashed sleeves, and
corslet), he answered ‘ that he thought him to be
that person.* He replied, ‘ he was in the right, that
he was the same, and that he expected a service from
him, which was that he should go from him to his
son the Duke of Buckingham, and tell him, if he
did not do somewhat to ingratiate himself with the
people he would be suffered to live but a short
time.’ And after this discourse he disappeared,
and the poor man slept very well till morning, when
he believed all this to be a dream, and considered it
so otherwise.
‘ ‘ The next night the same person appeared to him
again in the same place and about the same time of
the night, with an aspect more severe than before,
and asked him whether he had done as required, and
perceiving he had not, gave him very sharp repre¬
hension ; told him e he expected more compliance
from him, and that if he did not perform his com¬
mands, he should enjoy no peace of mind, but should
always be pursued by him.’ Upon which he promised
to obey him. But the next morning waking out of
sleep, though exceedingly perplexed with the brief
representation of all particulars to his memory, he was
willing still to persuade himself he had only dreamed,
and considered he was a person at such a distance
from the duke that he knew not how to find any
admission to his presence, much less had any hope of
being believed. And so with great trouble and dis¬
quiet, he thought what be would do, and in the end
resolved to do nothing in the matter.
‘ ‘ The same person appeared to him the third time
with a terrible countenance, bitterly reproaching him
for not performing what he had promised. The poor
man had by this time recovered the courage to tell
him ‘ that he had deferred executing his commands
through the difficulty in getting access to the duke,
the improbability that he should be able to persuade
him that he had been so sent—that he should be
thought mad, or employed by other men to abuse the
duke, and so he should be sure to be undone.’ The
person replied as before ‘ that he should never find
rest till he should perform what he required, and,
therefore, were better despatch it; that access to his
son was very easy, and for the gaining him credit he
would tell him two or three particulars which he
charged him never to mention to any person living
but to the duke himself, when he would believe all
the rest he should say ; ’ and so repeating his threats
he left him.
“In the morning the poor man made his journey
to London, where the court then was. He was very
well known to Sir Ralph Freeman, who had married a
lady nearly allied to the duke, and to him he went,
and though not telling him all particulars, said
enough to let him know there was something extra¬
ordinary in it, and the knowledge he had of the
sobriety and discretion of the man made the more
impression on him. Sir Ralph accordingly, having
spoken with the duke, promised him an interview
the next morning, when the duke was to land
for hunting by Lambeth Bridge, and then presented
j/j him to the duke, who received him courteously, and
jy| walked aside in conference near and low, Sir Ralph
||| and all others being at such a distance that they
hi could not hear a word, though the duke sometimes
|)j spoke, and with great commotion, as Sir Ralph, who
l)| kept his eyes fixed upon him, could well observe,
| i And the man, on his return, told him, ‘ that when
K| he mentioned those particulars which were to gain,
pj him credit, but which he durst impart to none, else,,
j)j the duke’s colour changed, and he swore he could
\)\ come to that knowledge only by the devil, for that
1)1 those particulars were only known to himself and to
|;; one person more, who he was sure would never speak
|)| of it.’
“The duke pursued his purpose of hunting, but
1)1 was observed to ride all the morning with great pen-
I (j siveness and in deep thought. He left the field early,
j)j and alighted at his mother’s lodgings in Whitehall,
p| with whom he was shut up for the space of two or
Ip three hours, the noise of their discourse frequently
Pj reaching the ears of those who attended in the next
j|j rooms ; and when the duke left her, his countenance
|)| appeared full of trouble, with a mixture of anger, a
I) I countenance that was never before observed in him
p| in any encounters with her, for towards her he had
|) | ever a most profound reverence. And the countess
p| herself was, at the duke’s leaving her, found over-
| j | whelmed in tears, and in the highest agony imaginable,
j/j and when the news of the duke’s murder (which
Hi happened within a few months after) was brought
|)| to her, she did not seem in the least surprised, but
pi received it as if she had foreseen it.”
This remarkable narrative gives rise to many re-
\l\ flections. It is a striking instance of that strange
||| unknown law which appears so. generally to have
|(| communication directly between the departed and
p| those whom they are most desirous of warning. Why
Ip should Sir George Yilliershave been unable to appear
Pi and speak directly to his highly-placed son, or even
|)i to the mother, whom that reckless ungovernable son
p| nevertheless so highly reverenced? Why must the
h| warning have been conveyed through a third remote
|)| person, scarcely known to those concerned, when if
|) | given direct, it might be expected to have far more,
pi weight ? What are those secrets and restrictions of
|)| the prison-house, Avhat their rationale, or what de-
pi fending; why bound here and unloosed there ? Again,
Kj what were the terrible credentials that so appalled
I I the duke, and which he believed were known only to
| | one other person alive ? We can but darkly surmise,
pi when we remember the character of the duke and of
|)| the times in which he lived, but it is to be noted they
| i were known to the dead. God seeth all things—to
iyi Him all secrets are known : that has been felt and
Pi recognised by the heart and conscience of all nations
|)| and ages; but Spiritualism further teaches that all
p| our thoughts and actions, all our vices and follies, all
hi. our deeds of shame and weakness, are seen and
|)| marked by those who have passed before us into
jjl spirit-life. It is a dreadful thought, fully considered.
|)i Around us press the innumerable people of the Dead,
pi and all our most secret deeds are watched by invisible
|ji eyes. When we are meditating acts of shame, folly,
p| and wickedness, let the thought occur that they who
|)| loved and trusted us, from whose living eyes we
p! should carefully and anxiously have hidden such
1 reproach, are now seeing and knowing it all, watching
90
THE SPI
with sad eyes, saddened more by recognising our
falseness, and by the knowledge that they cannot
interpose.
As a supernatural appearance this of Sir George
Villiers is one of the best attested on record—an
appearance thrice repeated, credited at last with re¬
luctance by a witness of mature age, and of known
sobriety and discretion.” We may be sure that
Lord Clarendon, who himself evidently believed it,
took all means to satisfy himself before recording it
in detail in his elaborate'and conscientious History.
W.
A TEST SEANCE.
BY MAJOR G. W. WALLACE CARPENTER.
Wishing to give some friends of mind an oppor¬
tunity of seeing some physical manifestations, I was
fortunate enough to secure the services of Mr. Haxby
for a test seance, which took place at my house on the
7th of August. Before the seance commenced, the
above-named medium, after offering himself to be
searched, changed the whole of his clothes, except his
boots and socks, in my presence and that of two other
gentlemen, and was dressed in some clothes that I
had provided for him.
We then went to the room where the dark seance
was to take place, where we handcuffed Mr. Haxby,
and tied him to his chair. The lights were
extinguished, and the circle formed, when some of
the usual manifestations took place, such as rappings
and tiltings of the table, some of the persons present
being touched, and the fireirons and fender dragged
noisily out of their places. One lady’s chair was
turned right round, and the medium’s chair was
drawn away from under him and placed on the table.
On the lights being turned on, the medium, who had
been held tightly by the persons on each side of him,
was found fettered by the handcuffs, which were of so
small a size that it would have been impossible for
him, even if a free agent, to slip his hands through
them.
The medium was then taken into the adjoining
room, the door of which had been arranged with a
curtain, so as to form a cabinet. The medium was
handcuffed to a brass bedstead, on which we laid him ;
one bracelet of the handcuff was round his wrist, and
the other locked to the bar at the head of the bed ;
he was then tied by one of my guests to the foot of
the bed, in a particular manner, with strong shoe¬
maker’s thread. I then, at the medium’s request,
turned the light down inside the cabinet, so as to
leave a dim light, the second gaslight in the room
being quite extinguished. Before I could regain my
seat in the adjoining room where my guests were, the
speaking trumpet, which I had left on the chimney-
piece a long way from the bed, was thrown after me
from the cabinet. The medium then called me back,
saying that the gas was escaping, and I found that
the extinguished gaslight had been turned on full and
was escaping. The medium was still handcuffed and
tied, and lying just as I had left him. After this,
“Cissy,” “ Abdullah,” and “John King” appeared,
and we all shook hands in turn with “Abdullah,”
who was the most fully materialised. Some
spirit lights flew about, and the musical box
played at intervals. It had been left quite out of
BI
i
II
It
I
\t
it
if
! \
/
T U A L I S T. Aug. 22, 1879.
reach of the bed. We also conversed with the
medium’s control, who always answered from the bed.
At the end of the seance, we found that a sliding
mirror door, cunningly devised so as to sink down
into the floor, and completely concealed by the carpet,
had been raised about four feet from the floor, so as
to form a temporary barrier between the two rooms.
We found the medium handcuffed and tied as we had
left him, none of the peculiar knots on the thread
having been in any way tampered with. Our party
consisted of two ladies, four officers in the army, and
a professor of music : all were neophytes, with one
exception, and one or two were rather sceptically
inclined. I do not think it necessary to publish
their names, but can vouch for the accuracy of all
my statements. Might I, as a humble investigator,
suggest that it would be very much to the advantage
of Spiritualism if all materialising mediums were to
offer themselves to be searched ? I know it would
produce a certain amount of inconvenience ; biit surely
some arrangement might be made, by increasing the
usual fee, so as to remunerate them for the extra
time and trouble of the search.
August 17, 1879.
“ FRIENDLY DEMONS ” IN THE ISLE OF MAN.
Waldron, in his Description of the Isle of Man
(1731), says :—“ The natives tell you that before any
person dies, the procession of the funeral is acted by
a sort of beings which for that end render themselves
visible. I know several that have offered to make
oath that as they have been passing the road one of
these funerals has come behind them, and even laid
the bier on their shoulders, as though to assist the
bearers. One person, who assured me he had been
served so, told me that the flesh of his shoulder had
been very much bruised, and was black for many
weeks after. There are few or none of them who
pretend not to have seen or heard these imaginary
obsequies (for I must not omit that they sing psalms
in the same manner as those do who accompany the
corpse of a dear friend), which so little differ from
real ones that they are not to be known till both
coffin and mourners are seen to vanish at the church
doors. These they take to be a sort of friendly
demons, and their business, they say, is to warn
people of what is to befall them ; accordingly, they
give notice of any strangers’ approach, by the tramp¬
ling of horses at the gate of the house where they
are to arrive. As difficult as I found it to bring
myself to give any faith to this, I have frequently
been very much surprised when, on visiting a friend,
I have found the table ready spread, and everything
in order to receive me, and being told by the person
to whom I went that he had knowledge of my
coming, or some other guest, by these good-natured
intelligencers ; nay, when obliged to be absent some
time from home, my own servants have assured me
they were informed by these means of my return,
and expected me the very hour I came, though, per¬
haps, it was some days before I hoped it myself at
my going abroad.”
The Archbishops oe York and Canterbury are both at
the Sheffield meeting of the British Association for the Advance*
ment of Science.
Aug. 22, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 91
MADAME ENAULT, THE MESMERIST. [j
Madame Enault is still in Warrington, Lancashire, \ {
publicly healing the sick and extracting teeth in the j)
extraordinary way already described in these pages. The i \
following newspaper extracts describe some of her pro- K
ceedings on the Continent:—
The Journal La Veritt, of Tournay, says :—Madame |)
Enault, the celebrated dentist, after having visited Gand, | (
Bruges, Ostend,: and Courtray, has paid a visit to the j j
Tournaisiens, and for three days, here as elsewhere, an /
enormous crowd has pressed round her original and K
splendid carriage. Madame Enault distinguishes herself i)
as much by her marvellous dexterity as by her generosity : j (
the eradication of defective molars is effected gratuitously j;
to the strains of a veritable Chinese band, and the j(
innumerable clients who succeed each other on the i)
carriage prove that there are an immense number of j)
defective jaws in Tournay and its environs. Wherever |\
she stops Madame Enault takes some charitable work I)
under her protection; and she has done this at Tournay. (
A few days later (October 30th, 1877), the same paper j)
announces that an undoubted triumph had just been U
witnessed on the Place St. Pierre, a superb crown and | (
five bouquets having been presented to the lady, in )
recognition of her valuable services; the presentation j <
being made in the presence of several thousand persons, j j
The Courier de VEscaut, after referring to her carriage, j)
says :—Madame Enault is dressed like a magician, and j (
those who have trusted their jaw to her declare that j)
she is a real enchantress. Not the least pain, not a drop |(
of blood ; nothing. The teeth appear to obey her, and j)
promptly jump from their sockets at the mere touch of her : <
wand. In two days she has extracted more than a
thousand teeth, and all, gentlemen, for—what? For j{
nothing; yes, for nothing. This is astonishing, isn’t it ? K
And the more so that in our days all possess the art of j)
making others pay too much. It is right to add that if | (
Madame Enault draws teeth gratuitously every one |)
hastens to purchase one or two bottles of her tooth j(
elixir. A day or two later the Courier states that jj
Madame Enault had appeared daily in her carriage, j)
which was valued at 15,000 francs, and instantly and jj
radically cured all who were troubled with toothache, jj
She was said to be a genuine philanthropist, in each jj
town taking some charitable institution under her jj
patronage. At Tournay she had done this for the Creche, j j
which is a charitable institution for children, and instead j j
of receiving money from the poor she had even distributed i
it among them. This lady might justifiably adopt as jj
her motto—Science and Benevolence.
The Journal de la Constitution) of Courtray, says :— jj
Each day more than two hundred persons step on the j j
carriage where Madame Enault extracts, with incredible j)
rapidity and marvellous dexterity, every defective tooth | (
and stump. We could not have imagined so many were jj
to be found in the town ! Ah ! if this dentist could only j j
extirpate the old clerical stump of Courtray. What a j}
service she would render! It is really surprising, j j
operating as she does, that Madame Enault never makes j j
a mistake by snatching out the sound instead of the jj
decayed tooth; repeating the well-known scene in the j j
immortal comedy of the Saltimbanques, where the actor j j
is congratulated on having so quickly obtained deliver- i (
ance. To which he replies—Yes, the vagrant dentist is jj
very smart, but he has drawn a sound instead of a bad j j
tooth. No similar mistake has ever been committed by jj
the skilful Madame Enault! But do you ask how, if jj
she draws teeth for nothing, she manages to earn a n
living? By selling bottles of malachite water, which, jj
she says, heals the wound and soothes the aching gums.
The price of this elixir is two francs. She sells a large
quantity. Her receipts often reach a thousand and
twelve hundred francs. Madame Enault is of Italian
origin, and married to a Frenchman. “ Ze zouis italienne,”
she says, slightly affecting' the pronunciation of the
tongue of Petrarch and Boccacio. “ Z’ai 6te azetdc k Rome
par ma mfere. Excousez-moi si ze ne parle pas bien le
iran^ais ! ” But Italian or French, what does it matter ?
The fact is, that this skilful wandering dentist, who
appears to be between thirty and forty years of age,
extracts teeth by hundreds of thousands, and always
without pain ! On the grand place of Courtray, we have
never seen a failure among the thousand patients upon
whom she has operated. It is true that if they were to
cry out the music of the Chinese band perched on the
carriage would drown their cries; and then people like
to appear brave in public. But every one comes away
contented from the hands of the enchantress Madame
Enault.
L'Echo de Courtrai, of September 11, 1877, says that
tidings of the celebrity achieved by Madame Enault at
Brussels, Bruges, and Gand, and other towns, had
reached Courtray before her arrival there, and scarcely
had she installed herself in the grand place before
patients were disputing for the pleasure of mounting her
vehicle. The word pleasure might/ appear strange, but
the writer was constrained to use it after having wit¬
nessed the contented appearance of those who left her
carriage. Madame Enault was splendidly equipped.
She was escorted by an excellent band of music in
Indian costume, her carriage is very rich and brilliant
with gold and precious stones, and more than one baron
might covet her fine horses. And imagine that all this
has been gained by making teeth jump out for nothing.
We are going ahead! We cordially congratulate
Madame Enault. She is an artiste of the first rank.
Her operations are performed with so much confidence,
and she so skilfully hides the thorns under the roses
from her patients, that more than one has regretted not
having a bad tooth, in order to enjoy the pleasure of
passing under her hands. In a word, Madame Enault
is a very agreeable, experienced, indefatigable, and most
obliging artiste. At the moment of going to press we
learn that the people are presenting a bouquet to the
celebrated dentist.
Les Nouvelles de Bruxelles, of July 26, 1877, says:—•
Madame Enault is at present the Queen of Gand.
When driving her four horses to extract teeth on the
public square, the people loudly applaud, unharness her
horses, and draw her in triumph themselves; and at
night the musical societies serenade her. The reason
for this enthusiasm is the great generosity of the dentist,
who makes no difficulty in presenting to the poor of
Gand, and other places, a gift of 500 francs.
The Gazette de Mans, of April 23, 1878, says :—■
Sometimes this magician appears only to touch the
molars with a baton, a pipe, or a cane (but having
cleverly hidden beneath it the instrument which will
best serve her purpose), and the teeth seem to obey her
and come quietly out of their sockets at the mere
approach of her wand. Then what triumphs she
achieves ! She has been applauded throughout America.
Bouquets after bouquets have been presented to her, and
she has had an abundance of serenades, even in the
Marche Franuaise at New Orleans. There Professor
Lenormand, accompanied by a specially appointed com¬
mittee, presented her, before the assembled crowd, with
a gold medal, in acknowledgment not only of her pro¬
fessional knowledge and skill, but also of her humanity
and generosity to the poor of the capital of Louisiana.
92
THE SPIRITUALIST
Aug. 22, 1879,
In Belgium Avho lias not read in the papers, during the
last few months, of the success which Madame Enault
has achieved at Gourtray, at Gaud, at Tournay, at
Louviers, &c. 1 Everywhere her splendid horses have
been detached from her sparkling carriage, and she
has been conducted in triumph to her hotel. The
people know how to appreciate and admire those
who exhibit a humane spirit, and the poor are by her
not only freed from their tormentors, and cured gra¬
tuitously, but she sometimes gives them money also.
But those who are in better circumstances must not
abuse this generosity, for on them Madame Enault can
sometimes play a pretty little joke: she can draw a
sound tooth instead of a decayed one. We may further
add that the celebrated surgeon-dentist takes some
charitable work under her protection in the various
towns she visits: at Tournay it was the Creches, at
Mons it is the Communal Guardian Schools. Is it
necessary for us now to mention the thousand tales, all
to the credit of this Milanaise, which circulate among the
public, their subject being always of her boundless
generosity 1 We will confine ourselves to the folloAving
incident, Avhich occurred at Lille. Madame Enault Avas
called to the house of a very wealthy person for the
extraction of a tooth, and was taken into the kitchen; a
proceeding Avhich shoAved extremely bad taste. And
AA-hat did she do 1 When she Avas asked her charge, she
replied, “ Two hundred and fifty francs (<£10); for Avhen
I Avork in the kitchen I take fifty francs for myself, and
I give one hundred francs to the cook, and one hundred
francs to the servant.” Who got the worst of iti It is
said the Mons dentists are angry Avith this stranger, Avho
is monopolising all their business. But for our part Ave
are persuaded there is nothing in it, and we dare even
engage they will be prepared to show they have no ill
feeling Avhatever on the subject by giving her a banquet
on the day of her departure.
BLACK FOREST LEGENDS.
Mr. L. G. Seguin has just written a most interesting
book on the above subject, published by Messrs. Strahan
and Co., and full of the glamour of romance. Tavo
extracts therefrom are appended :—
THE YOUNG HUNTSMAN AND THE HAUNTED HOUSE.
It happened, however, that one day a young hunter
of noble family, a stranger-guest in one of the neigh¬
bouring castles, was led, in the excitement of the chase,
up to the very gate of the deserted mansion. The deer
which he was pursuing rushed by him into the very
ruins, as though it Avere taking sanctuary. The young
man, by name Kurt von Stein, had heard some curious
legends as connected with a ruined castle on the height,
and possibly, half from curiosity and half because he was
hot and tired with a day of specially poor sport, he dis¬
mounted and led his horse, tired like himself, through
the brambles and bushes that had overgrown the ruined
gateway, into the grass-grown courtyard.
“ A curious place, to be sure !” said the young man,
seating himself for a moment’s rest on a fallen mass of
brickwork overlaid with soft moss, and letting his horse
meantime graze at his Avill from the rank growth of the
courtyard.
“ A very curious place ! Looks as if no one had been
here for a hundred years. I wonder whether this can be
the haunted castle my uncle was speaking about only
the other night. If so,” he added, “ I wish to goodness
the spirit-lady would have the hospitality to Avelcome
me to her domains, and offer me a drink of something
this hot day.” And as he took off his hunting-cap to
(i air his heated broAv, his thoughts reverted lovingly to a
)] certain glass tankard in his uncle’s house, Avhich, when
/j filled Avith yellow Strasburg beer, was about as pleasant
\ | a sight to Kurt von Stein as the world could well offer.
After a Avhile the idea occurred to the young man
' | that as chance had brought him to the castle, he might
) j as Avell pay his respects to the owner of it, whether she
>| were a phantom or not.
A turret-stair, broken and worn, Avas close at hand to
) I the spot which he had chosen as a resting-place. Twilight
; i Avas beginning to fall as he reached the castle; noAv,
suddenly, darkness seemed to have come, and as ho
; mounted the winding turret-stairs, he noticed that lights
;,j Avere already showing through many of the windows of
: | Avhat appeared to be a less ruinous part of the building
(i than that by Avhich he had entered.
“ That is all right,” said Kurt to himself. “ I Avas
/! Avise to try my fortune here. A supper, or even a bed,
j I would not come amiss to me, for I scarcely know Iioav
;| I shall find my way back to my uncle’s house to-night.
(I But, at any rate, I shall get some directions, and, perhaps,
) I if the people are not over hospitable, a guide home.”
So saying, he made his Avay up the staircase, and
G knocked at a door which Avas at the top of it. The door
)| opened noiselessly, as though by an unseen hand, and
11 admitted him into a long corridor, lighted and adorned
j! Avith white marble statues. From this he passed into a
)j suite of rooms hung Avith tapestry, and strewn with
\ | freshly-laid rushes, Avith a feAV carved settles and chests
)j for furniture. Still he met no one.
Next he came into a great hall, on the walls of which
)\ hung a number of antique portraits, while in the centre
) j of the apartment was a table spread as if for supper.
11 This is very curious,” said Kurt to himself; “ Avhere
) j can the family be gone to 1 HoAvever, one comfort is,
j | they’ve got something to eat. I think I’ll Avait here and
\ | give them a chance of inviting me,”
So saying, he sat quietly down at one end of the table,
(i which was laid for two persons. Scarcely had he done
>j so when the door of the room opened noiselessly, and a
< | lady, young and beautiful, but Avith a someAvhat sad and
)! pale face, entered the room.
Kurt rose, and at once began to make apologies for his
\ I uiiAvarrantable intrusion. The lady AvaAred a Avhite hand
)\ towards him, and bade him be seated.
“ Say no more,” she said, in a SAveet, sad voice. “ I
)j expected you.”
There was evidently some mistake here, thought Kurt,
\ | but as the mistake seemed to mean a good supper, he
) | was not umvilling to fall into it. He at once took a seat
U at the table, and the lady took hers opposite him.
She Avas certainly very beautiful, he thought, as he
) | looked again at her over the brimming wine-cup. The
) i wine, too, Avas excellent; so was the Avhole repast—at
) i which the lady Avaited upon him Avith her own fair hands
(| —the only peculiarity about it being that neither bread
) i nor salt Avas to be found on the table, and Kurt Aron Stein
<! was too much of a gentleman to notice the omission,
)j though he certainly enjoyed his supper the less by reason
11 of their absence.
At length the young man ventured to ask one or tAvo
) | questions of his kindly hostess, “ May I inquire,” he
(| said, “ are you, fair hostess, the daughter of this house 1 ”
“ Yes,” was the answer given, as it seemed sadly and
)i low.
(i “ And your parents ? ”
“ They af© there,’- sipd the lady, pointing to the
j! pictures cm the walls.
“ Do yqu mean to say that you Uy® ill this house
alone l asked Yon Stein,
Aua 22, 1879.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
•93
“Alone,” returned the lady.. “I am the last of my it
race.”
MARRIAGE! TO A GHOSTLY BRIDE.
Who shall say how it came about? The lady was |>
beautiful, the man was young. In such cases love is |(
sometimes found to be a plant that does not take long in b
the growing. Moreover, Yon Stein, though noble, was j)
poor, and the lady the last of her race, the heiress of an j(
ancient lineage. Possibly the notion of the inheritance the j x
lonely girl might bring with her had some part in the ! (
sudden passion which tilled the young man’s heart. Who | j
can tell ?
It was not long before he found himself kneeling at her |\
feet and offering the beautiful maiden all that he had to b
offer—his devotion and his life..
The lady listened silently, and with bowed head, to his j>l
ardent pleading. Then she said, looking up, but away m
from him, and speaking absently—“ I have heard those j(
words before.”
“ But never from lips so true, so honest, so disin- u
terested,” said the young man warmly, forgetting in his j)
fascination for the beautiful lady how he had certainly j(
taken her inheritance into account in the first place.
The lady sighed and was silent.
Then she spoke—“ If I yield to your wishes, we must j(
be married at once.”
“At once!” cried Yon Stein, perhaps a little startled, b
Yet what lover ever found the time between betrothal and j)
marriage too short!—“I am ready,” he said gallantly,
“ and impatient.”
The lady smiled, moved softly away to an old worm- i)
eaten chest which was set against the wall, took from it (
two rings and a white veil and crown of myrtle, which lj
she laid upon her dark flowing hair. Her dress was !/
white.
“ Come,” she said to her lover, and led the way.
A little bewildered, after the fashion of bridegrooms !(
in general, and scarcely knowing whether to be happy j)
or alarmed, the young man followed his bride through, as j(
it seemed to him, miles of dimly-lighted vaulted passages, j)
where the damp was trickling down the walls, and
where unthought-of steps, up and down, were ready at |\
every moment to trip up the unwary passer. The lady, j j
however, seemed to be well acquainted with every turn If
and twist of the place, and giving her hand to her lover, h
she led him on, step by step, until at length they reached j)
a vaulted chamber, which they had no sooner entered i\
than a great iron door shut heavily behind them, with a ||
sound that echoed through every arch of the dimly- b
lighted building.
It was the chapel.' : j(
“Your hand is cold, my love,” said the young man K
tenderly to his bride.
“No matter, yours has warmth and life enough for i(
both,” returned the lady. : 1)
Yet. the life .seemed actually to ebb from the young Jc:
man’s heart as he observed the stone figure of a bishop,, i:
which was sculptured on a gravestone in the centre of the j(
chapel, gradually rise from its recumbent position and j(
walk up the steps of the altar.
The eyes of the bishop flamed like glowworms, the /y.
candles upon the altar lighted of themselves, and j)
the tones of an organ rolled solemnly through the vaulted f)
building. . .. - ||
“ Kurt von Stein, wilt thou take the Lady of Windeck j)
for thy lawful wife ?” said the bishop, in low sepulchral i(
tones, which sounded as though not he, but some muffled H
voice a dozen yards away, were speaking.
At this moment the whole horror of the scene seemed | \
to break upon the . young man. Around him, slowly )
rising from their graves, he saw.the shrouded forms and ^
fleshless faces of the dead who came as witnesses to the
ghostly marriage. Even the face of his bride, as his
fascinated eyes fixed upon it, wore the livid hue of death.
He turned in an agony to fly from the horrible scene,
tried to snatch his hand from the cold, hard grip of
the phantom-lady—fell, as he believed, senseless upon
the chapel floor, .... and awoke to find himself, at
dawn of day, laying at his full length on the moss-
grown stone where he had sat to rest the night before,
at the castle door, and his horse intent upon an
early meal on the rank herbage of the grass-grown court.
When he told his tale in the village, and at the
neighbouring castles, no one in the least doubted that
he had almost, if not quite, laid the unquiet spirit of the
Lady of Lauf.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPEEIENCES OF PRINCE
TALLEYRAND AND OTHERS.
(New York Sun, Aug. 3rd.)
A few years ago, when in Europe, I took dinner
with a relative of the famous diplomatist and poli¬
tician, Prince Talleyrand, who lives stylishly in one
of the aristocratic quarters of Paris. After the
repast the party began telling yarns highly flavoured
with the supernatural. The following are some of
the best of them:—
My host, who was, by the way, a marquis, told a
very curious story of his kinsman, Prince Talleyrand.
The Prince, in his youth, was enamoured of a certain
very beautiful countess, who was beheaded during
the Reign of Terror. One day as the Prince was
out driving in the Bois^de Vincennes, many years
afterward, the coachman suddenly stopped, and
Prince Talleyrand, looking out of the window to see
what was the matter, saw two ladies standing by the
side of the carriage. One of them, holding up a face
between her two hands, presented the head of the
dead countess at the: carriage window, and then with¬
drew. The Prince, in the greatest consternation,
called out to the coachman to know the cause of his
stopping, whereupon the latter, with a gesture,
pointed to the two figures which were still visible.
The Prince drove hastily home, and calling his sister
apart related what he had just seen in the most
terrible agitation. “ My grandmother, who was this
sister, told me this herself,” quietly remarked the
Marquis, on finishing the narration.
“ But I have a more weird story than this,” re¬
sumed the Marquis, after the conversation that his
strange recital gave rise to had died out; “ one in
which I was a principal actor myself.” It happened
during the French expedition to Mexico, while the
American civil war was raging. The French army
was encamped before Pueblo. One day the hostler
of the Marquis’s horses—the Marquis was an officer
of cavalry—came to his tent and informed him that
a civilian was desirous of being presented. The
Marquis left the tent and followed the hostler to one
of the outposts, where was found the unknown
visitor. He was dressed in black and had white hair.
He informed the Marquis that there was to be a
battle that afternoon. The Marquis, not a little sur¬
prised by his strange appearance and the confidence
with which he predicted a battle, invited him into a
tent where the fellow-officers of the Marquis’s regi¬
ment were dining, The Marquis placed him by his
94 THE SP
side at the table. Pointing to a certain officer who
sat opposite, the strange visitor said that he would
be killed in the approaching battle, and told three
others that they would be wounded, designating in
each case the particular spot where the wound would
be received. He also informed the Marquis that he
would be wounded, and was careful to; say just where.
While this conversation was going on the bugles
blew to horse, the officers hastily mounted and rushed
into the battle, which had already begun. The old
man in black was not thought of until after the fight,
when the Marquis found that everything he had
predicted had come true. The. battle had occurred;
he himself was wounded in the very spot foretold ;
the three other officers were also wounded, and in
the places designated; and the officer who was to
die had been killed among the first in the onset.
But the most curious feature of the episode is that
while the hostler remembered the strange visitor,
how he had demanded the Marquis, and how he him¬
self had brought the Marquis to him, and while the
sentinels from the extreme outposts to the heart of
the camp all recalled the circumstance of a civilian
dressed in black and with white hair having asked
for the Marquis, of such a regiment and squadron,
none of the wounded officers had any recollection of
the visitor or of the scene in the tent at dinner.
“ My fellow-officers laughed a good deal at my cre¬
dulity,” said the Marquis as he finished; “ but the
features of this apparition are still indelibly fixed in
my mind; they were those of Prince Talleyrand.”
It was now the turn of the Marquis’s wife, and
she gave this odd concatenation of mysteries, all of
which happened during a single journey from Florida
to Paris.
The Marquis and his wife were living in Florida.
The Marchioness was to take the steamer on a cer¬
tain day for New York. An old negress of a super¬
stitious nature urged her not to go, as she feared
there w7as danger. Little attention, however, was
given to the words of the negress. But on the after¬
noon of the day before the Marchioness was to sail,
a cat came up to her bedroom, canying a dead owl,
and put it in the middle of the bed. A servant
threw the owl out of the window; but in a few
minutes back came the cat with the same owl, and
again placed it in the middle of the bed. This time
the owl was ordered to be thrown at the back of the
barn, a long way from the house, but in a half hour
the cat again appeared with the dead bird and placed
it in the old place. In the evening, while the family
were at dinner, a crash was heard in the next room,
the parlour, and on entering it a strong, good-sized
table—which the Marchioness still has, and which
she pointed to, in one corner of the room, while
telling the story—was found upside down in the
middle of the parlour. Who or what had tipped
over the table was the question. The room was
completely shut up at the time, windows and doors
closed for the night. The Marchioness, now some¬
what nervous, declared that if the mirror, which
covered the inside of the top of the table, was broken,
she would not sail. On opening the cover the mirror
was found to be intact. She therefore sailed, and
arrived safely at New York. But the Atlantic was
still to be crossed. For this purpose she had bought
RITUALIST. Aug. 22, 1879.
\| a ticket by the Inman line, and was walking down
) j Broadway the day before the boat sailed, when, on
) | meeting a friend, he suggested that she change her
a ticket for one by the Hamburg line, which would
)j land her directly in France, and thus save the tra¬
il versing of England by rail and the crossing of the
)j Channel. She consented, the friend made the
11 change, and she sailed on a Hamburg boat, the
;| Inman steamer, on which she was to have taken
a passage, leaving at the same time. The two boats
)\ kept in sight all the way down the bay, but parted
)| at night. When the Marchioness landed in Europe
I ] she heard that the other steamer was still out, and
)j no tidings have ever come of her to this day. It was
\\ the City of Boston.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS IN AUSTRALIA.
Mr. George F. Chappell, of Clear Creek, Yackan-
(i dandah, Australia, describes in The Harbinger of
n Light, Melbourne, how a little girl obtains slate-
11 writing phenomena like Hr. Slade; but let the sitters
) | tie the slates together how they will, the spirits untie
\ | them in a minute, when she holds the slate beneath a
| table with one hand only, for a minute or two, in day-
11 light, Mr. Chappell says:—“ On Sunday evening, Aug.
Vj 26th, I and the following persons met to hold converse
) j with the invisibles—Mrs. E., Mrs. Coysh and daughter,
11 Mr. Cranbrook and daughter, myself and wife. We
tt were eager to get the slate-writing again under
I stricter conditions than the night previous, and so I
(! asked, through the medium, ‘ If I tie the slates
) | together will the spirit take the string off ?' Much to
(| our surprise the following answer came, ‘ Yes, I will,
>| quick. Ho you think I am a rogue ? Try it.’ At
<| Mr. Cranbrook’s suggestion I did try. After putting
(j a small piece of pencil in I tied the slates securely,
(I this time as tightly as I possibly could draw the
|| string, and passing it under and over, twisting it in
such a manner as would defy any one, without some
\ | implement to undo it, to get it apart; finally I tied
I the ends with some half a dozen knots as tight as I
\| could. I then gave the slates into the hands of the
| medium. She passed them under the table, the other
|| hand on the top of the table. After the lapse of,
(j perhaps, half a minute the string was thrown out
ji from under the table. The slates, on being handed
(j out, were found without string, and the string was
)j found without knots—no writing inside the slates.
II We then thought the best thing to do would be to try
11 and get something without tying the slates, as the
)j spirit seemed to have an objection to the slates being
\\ tied ; the why and the wherefore I have not fully
found out yet.”
(i Among the visitors to the British Association at Sheffield are
\i Mr. and Mrs, Crookes, and Mr. Crookes, jun.; Professor E. Ray
jj Lankester, Dr. W. B. Carpenter, Professor Huxley, Mr. Conrad
)j Cooke, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, of
<j Liverpool; Professor Barrett, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Weldon, and
j! Mr. Harrison.
I About forty ladies and gentlemen assembled at Geddes’s Tem-
| perance Hotel, 150, High-street, Edinburgh, on Wednesday,
13th inst., at a social meeting and conversazione in honour of
Mr. J. J. Morse. Mr. Bowman, of Glasgow, presided. Mr.
| Rhodes called the attention of the meeting to a letter in the
Spotsrtiftn from Mr. T. P. Barkas, stating that he had arranged
j to lecture on the facts of Spiritualism under any chairman and
| before any audience in the city,
Am. 22, 1870.
THE SPIEITttALIST.
95
THE DEEAM OF THE SWAFFHAM TINKEE.
In the Mirror for 1833 there is a narration of a
remarkable dream that occurred to a tinker of Swaff-
ham, in Norfolk, two or three hundred years ago,
and which is both traditional and historical, being
well known, in its first form, in the place where it
occurred, and having been recorded in the legendary
chronicles of former times. This tinker, a hard¬
working, industrious man, one night dreamed that if
he took a journey to London, and placed himself at a
certain spot on London Bridge, he should meet one
that would tell him something of great importance
to his future prospects. The tinker, on whom the
dream made a deep impression, related it fully to his
wife in the morning, who, however, half laughed at
him and half scolded him for his folly in heeding such
idle fancies. Next night he re-dreamed the dream, and
again on the third night; when the impression was so
powerful on his mind that he determined, in spite of
the remonstrances of his wife and the ridicule of his
neighbours, to go to London and see the upshot of
it. Accordingly he set off for the metropolis on foot,
reached it late on the third day (the distance was
ninety miles), and, after the refreshment of a night's
rest, took his station next day on a part of the
bridge answering to the description in his dream.
There he stood all day, and all the next, and all the
third, without any communication as to the purpose
of his journey; so that, towards night on the third
day, he began to lose patience and confidence in his
dream, inwardly cursed his folly in disregarding his
wife’s counsel, and resolved next day to make the
best of his way home. He still kept his station,
however, till late in the evening, when, just as he
was about to depart, a stranger, who had noticed
him standing steadfastly and with anxious looks on
the same spot for some days, accosted him, and asked
him what he waited there for. After a little hesi¬
tation the tinker told his errand, though without
acquainting him with the name of the place whence
he came. The stranger enjoyed a smile at the
rustic’s simplicity, and advised him to go home, and
for the future to pay no attention to dreams. “ I
myself,” said he, “ if I were disposed to put faith in
such things, might now go a hundred miles into the
country upon a similar errand. I dreamed three
nights this week that if I went to a place called
Swaffham, in Norfolk, and dug under an apple
tree in a certain garden on the north side of the
town, I should find a box of money; but I have
something else to do than run after such idle fancies I
No, no, my friend ; go home and work well at your
calling, and you will find there the riches you are
seeking here.” The astonished tinker did not doubt
that this was the communication he had been sent to
London to receive; but he merely thanked the
stranger for his advice, and went away avowing his
intention to follow it. He next day set out for
home, and on his arrival there said little to his wife
touching his journey; but next morning he rose
betimes, and began to dig on the spot he supposed
to be pointed out by the stranger. When he had got
a few feet down, the spade struck upon something
hard> which turned out to be an iron chest. This he
quickly carried to his house, and, when he had with
difficulty wrenched open the lid, found it to his great
<f joy to be full of money. After securing his treasure,
he observed on the lid of the box an inscription
<i which, unlearned as he was, he could not decipher.
)| But by a stratagem he got the inscription read,
<! without any suspicion on the part of his neighbours,
>| by some of the Grammar School lads, and found it
|| to be—
Where this stood
Is another twice as good.
): °
)i And in truth, on digging again, the lucky tinker
\j disinterred, below the place where the first chest had
)j lain, a second, twice as large, also full of gold and
\j silver coin. It is stated that, become thus a wealthy
h man, the tinker showed his thankfulness to Provi-
)j dence by building a new chancel to the church, the
(| old one being out of repair. “ And whatever fiction the
)j marvellous taste of those ages may have mixed up
(j with the tale, certain it is that there is shown to this
i| day a monument in Swaffham Church, having an
)| effigy in marble, said to be that of the. tinker, with
{I his dog at his side, and his tools and implements of
)! trade lying about him.” Notwithstanding this
)| exceedingly direct and conclusive evidence of the
(| veracity of the story of the tinker’s dream-—a very
)| good story of its kind—the machinery employed
<| seems to have been too clumsy ever to have been
)i contrived by that “Providence” to which the tinker
11 ascribed his good fortune; for nothing could be more
;j superfluous than to send a man to London to get
(j information about a treasure in his own garden, from
)j a man who knew nothing about that treasure but
(j what he had learned from a dream-warning which,
)j fortunately for the other dreamer, he did not obey.
The arya somaj,
Sir,—It will be readily understood that Dr. Carter Blake is
not, as he intimates, responsible for persons attending his public
lectures. It is, therefore, less apparent why, or in whose interest,
he should take exception to “ Zeta’s ” prompt and proper repudia¬
tion of Mr. Hurrychund (or Harichandra) Chintamon’s title to
be described as the President of the Arya Somai. So far as I am
aware (and I believe I should not be without information on the
subject), there is no such society as iC The Arya Somaj of
Bombay.” Whereas “The Arya Somaj of Aryavart” is well-
known throaghout India. It is, happily, quite unnecessary to
inform Dr. Carter Blake, or any other unconcerned person, of
the circumstances tinder which Mr. Chintamon has ceased to be a
member of that society. I should, however, mention that had I
seen the paragraph in the 'Times quoted by you, I should, as a
member of the Arya Somaj, at once have sent to that paper a
correction similar to that published by “ Zeta f in The Spirit-
nalist.—Toxix insertion of this will oblige your obedient servant,
C. C. Massey.
Lyme Regis, August 16tb, 1879.
TO COEEESPONDENTS.
In consequence of the absence from London of the editor of
The Spiritualist, who is at the British Association at Sheffield,
several communications sent for publication are kept over for a
short time.
Mr. I. M. Dale wishes to return thanks to those Spiritualists
who recently aided him in the Work of clearing off the debt of
the Marylebone Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism. He
specially mentions the name of Mrs. Fletcher, and says that he
is about to publish a balance-sheet.
96
^HE SPIRITUALIST. Aug. 22, iS?9.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
fry the late 'Wm. GrbQORT, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, foi Its Quality ahd sisie,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in Connection with
Spiritualism.
just published, price 8s., or 5si Gd. post free.
COrfTtiifTTS:
CtiAPTER t:—Find Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmbric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility-Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage-
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V: —Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—^Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
! CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis's Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator-
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in ihe Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action Of Magnets, Crystals, <Sc., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reiehenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artiflcially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism —.Physiological, Therapeutical, <tc. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight oat of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep —
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
- -Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley's Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct ClairVoyaitee^-Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance —Extasis,— Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British Museum-street, London
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
|(| In. thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
| \ | Civilised Countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
| \ | sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out*
i; | lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
|)! ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
? * The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
| Luhbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
i (! investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non*
|) I professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
Ki true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
ijj were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
i / J presence of mediums without being touched.
j|| Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
j (| Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
| (i thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
| (j house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
| (| Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
i i professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
ji Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
j {I forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
! {I stranger to the family present.
if | The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
|; | science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
I) i untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
! (! private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
| ? I by any member of the family. At the present time there are
; (! only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe-
i f | nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
i) ! tricksters (which they are npt), they are so few in number as to
i; i be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
|) | great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro-
! )j tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
i /j the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
i; i which cost nothing, thus showing how egrcgiously those are
i 11 duped who trust in worthless authorities.
! j One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
j \ I ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
|)| new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
;>i tions, obtains the phenomena :—
j) j. 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
;; i tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
j; j 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
i \ \ the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
i) ] wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
|)j top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
|) i little importance. Any table will do.
i 'j 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
j;! but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
Kj 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
; (i general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
iyj should be of a frivolous nature.
j) i ’ 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
i; i feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
i): indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
i(i 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
i(i to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
: \ i the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
i) I three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
El “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is.understood,
i/j If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
| (| letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
|(l to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
id three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
Kj from this time an intelligent system of communication is
I) I established.
i)j 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
|) i trance or clairvoyance, may' develop; the better class of
;>! messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
jlj usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
j'(i objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
id the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
.||}; to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
Kj or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
i) I undeniable proof.
j) j 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
|) j because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
I / j sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi-
! \ \ tive to mesmeric influences.
ju Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
K not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
|)l week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
;,)i stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Aug. 22, 1879.
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
deceive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
in formation as tb usances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9:30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 pan:
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—G, Akerman Road, Brixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
hooks on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, <&c., <fcc.,
a pply to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. Sec.
IV/fRS. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
JAJL RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a, short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all Varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
oiiginal position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting ’punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
 E. W. AiiLEy, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
By F. J. Theobadd. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriplural. It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, Gd. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit homo.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W C.
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world 1 Issued weekly, at No. D, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner \s a first-class, eight-paged family
piper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, <Sc., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, AY.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMEN,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
J5/y the late Wm Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
This second edition is, for its quality and size, the
cheapest large work ever published in this country in
connection with Spiritualism. Price 5s., or 6s. Gd.
post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, WLondon,. 0,
fhe Spiritualist.
Price 3s. Gd. Imperial Svo. Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN'THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism; given through the
writing niediuniship of '• M.A. (Oxon)," and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 01 Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. -—Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr.Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. —.
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —-Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
Wbite, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
< XVI.—Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“M. A., Oxon.”
XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Manrice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Mo’em
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVI I.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint." By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes i
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII. — Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science, By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
rriHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
JL OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z., j
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Pro oplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price Gd.;
post free, GJd. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings; Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY RPES SARGENT
CONSENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spit its—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox; J. Kddns, the Davenpdrt Brothers,
D. Di Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms;
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality-
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kartt-^
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Varioiis Wit*
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dt. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine —Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship- Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dnnphy, Mr.
J, C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—^Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge.— Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments. .
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself^—A Moral Creed—The Teachiugs
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life-
Hum boldt—Newman— Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal -Experiences — The
Mesmerists—^Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Pilce 5s. Gd.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM, THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VI f.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom—;XV. Mistress Qlenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The. Prophecy .of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Biitish
Museum-street, London, W.C.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIEITtlALIST,
AtiG. 22, 18^.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
A.ND PROSE IMAGININGS..
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—The Castle.—5. The Lajr of the Fat Man.—G. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13, Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirhel-hewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song!—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
'—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wohhlejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wdbblejaw,
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Becep-
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug. — 30. The Converted
Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who are not too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
. . . The unfortunate Hadji's narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been pub¬
lished for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejaw Ballads “ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result."
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.’’
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, arc of rare literary
excellence.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
mHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
X SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals of the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE ALPHA; or, the First Principle
of the Human Mind"; a Revelation, but no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages, price 3s. 6d.
‘We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”
—Athenxum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read ; it is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also, just published, with engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. Gd.
rpHE RELIGION OF LIFE, as exemp-
X lined by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
the Author of “Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Alien, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CEOWELL, M.D.f
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. Gd. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C. I
“ T E JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
I 1 published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
A LADY SPIRITUALIST AND
jrX MEDIUM is forming a circle for inquirers,
every Monday and Thursday evening, at eight o’clock.
She wishes to engage a genuine materialisation
medium for once a week.—Kindly communicate to
A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue dc
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
XTOTJCE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
JJN NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d.; or six copies post free for Gd.
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOR AUGUST, 1879.
The Spiritual Pilgrim. PartII; by “M. A." (Oxon)—
Some Tnoughts concerning the Mystical Death; by A.
M. Howitt Watts—Sermons by a Seer ; by J. W. F.—
Materialism in Religious Circles ; by J. T. Markley—
A Pioneer of Modem Spiritualism—The Popular Faith
and the Claims of Sp’ritualism as a Renewal of Reve¬
lation ; by John S. Farmer—The Religion of the
Future—Notes and Gleanings: Brief Mentions; Dr.
Talmage on the Future Life; A Sign of the Times;
Honour when Honour is Due; A Curious Legend;
Healing Mediumship ; Dr. Colenso ; The Rev. Joseph
Cook on the Spiritual Body; Spiritualism in Australia
The Hopeless Sadness of ; Materialism — Spiritual
Lyrics: The Dual Mystery; by T, S.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s.. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia ..76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .70
The Seer. „ III. „ , .76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. „ V. : „ ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . . . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . r . ..76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .GO
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology ., * .30
Morning Lectures . ' . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFl’, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
M' IND AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Pehna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
Price 5s. Cr. Svo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. ■ ■ •  
CONTENTS.
A Theory of Mediumship. By John E. Purdon,
M.B    85
The Apparition of Sir George Villiers  88
A Test Seance. By Major G. W. Wallace Carpenter 90
“ Friendly Demons” in the Isle of Man   90
Madame Enault, the Mesmerist  91
Black Forest Legends:—The Young Huntsman
and the Haunted House — Marriage to a
Ghostly Bride           92
The Psychological Experiences of Prince Talley¬
rand and Others     93
Physical Manifestations in Australia   94
The Dream of the Swaffham Tinker     93
Correspondence:—The Ary a Soma j   93
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew abovc-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Harrison, 33, British Museu^-
street London W.C,
